CHAPTER 1
PART ONE  CHAPTER 2
1    Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in 1    Happy families own way.    Everything was in confusion in the Oblonskys’ house. The wife had discovered that the husband was carrying on an intrigue with a French girl, who had been a governess in their family, and The wife had announced to the husband that The wife could not go on living in the Oblonskys’ house with the husband. This position of affairs had now lasted three days, and not only the husband and wife themselves, but all the members of their family and household, were painfully conscious of it. Every person in the Oblonskys’ house felt that there was no sense in their living together, and that the stray people brought together by chance in any inn had more in common with one another than the stray people, the members of the family and household of the Oblonskys. The wife did not leave The wife own room, the husband had not been at home for three days. The children ran wild all over the Oblonskys’ house; the English governess quarreled with the housekeeper, and wrote to a friend asking The wife to look out for a new situation for The wife; the man cook had walked off the day before just at dinner time; the kitchen maid, and the coachman had given warning.    Three days after the quarrel, Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva, as Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva was called in the fashionable world woke up at Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva usual hour, that is, at eight o’clock in the morning, not in Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva wife bedroom, but on the leather covered sofa in Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva study. Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva turned over Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva stout, well cared for person on the springy sofa, as though Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva would sink into a long sleep again; Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva vigorously embraced the pillow on the other side and buried Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva face in the pillow on the other side; but all at once Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva jumped up, sat up on the springy sofa, and opened Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva eyes.    “Yes, yes, how was it now?” Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva thought, going over Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky Stiva dream. “Now, how was it? To be sure! Alabin was giving a dinner at Darmstadt; no, not Darmstadt, but something American. Yes, but then, Darmstadt was in America. Yes, Alabin was giving a dinner on glass tables, and glass tables sang, Il mio tesoro not Il mio tesoro though, but something better, and there were some sort of little decanters on the table, and they were women, too,” Alabin remembered.    Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes twinkled gaily, and Alabin pondered with a smile. “Yes, it was nice, very nice. There was a great deal more that was delightful, only there no putting it into words, or even expressing it in one thoughts awake.” And noticing a gleam of light peeping in beside one of the serge curtains, Alabin cheerfully dropped Alabin feet over the edge of the springy sofa, and felt about with them for Alabin slippers, a present on Alabin last birthday, worked for Alabin by Alabin wife on gold colored morocco. And, as Alabin had done every day for the last nine years, Alabin stretched out Alabin hand, without getting up, towards the place where Alabin dressing gown always hung in Alabin bedroom. And thereupon Alabin suddenly remembered that Alabin was not sleeping in Alabin wife room, but in Alabin study, and why: a smile vanished from Alabin face, Alabin knitted Alabin brows.    “Ah, ah, ah! Oo!...” Alabin muttered, recalling everything that had happened. And again every detail of Alabin quarrel with his wife was present to Alabin imagination, all the hopelessness of Alabin position, and worst of all, Alabin own fault.    “Yes, his wife won’t forgive me, and his wife can’t forgive me. And the most awful thing about it is that it all my fault all my fault, though I’m not to blame. That the point of the whole situation,” Alabin reflected. “Oh, oh, oh!” Alabin kept repeating in despair, as Alabin remembered the acutely painful sensations caused Alabin by his quarrel with his wife.    Most unpleasant of all was the first minute when, on coming, happy and good humored, from the theater, with a huge pear in Alabin hand for his wife, Alabin had not found his wife in the drawing room, to Alabin surprise had not found his wife in the study either, and saw his wife at last in his wife bedroom with the unlucky letter that revealed everything in his wife hand.    his wife, Alabin Dolly, forever fussing and worrying over household details, and limited in his wife ideas, as Alabin considered, was sitting perfectly still with the letter in her hand, looking at Alabin with an expression of horror, despair, and indignation.    “What this? this?” his wife asked, pointing to the letter in her hand.    And at this recollection, Stepan Arkadyevitch, as is so often the case, was not so much annoyed at the fact itself as at the way in which Alabin had met Alabin wife words.    There happened to Alabin at that instant what does happen to people when people are unexpectedly caught in something very disgraceful. Alabin did not succeed in adapting Alabin face to the position in which Alabin was placed towards Alabin wife by the discovery of Alabin fault. Instead of being hurt, denying, defending Alabin, begging forgiveness, instead of remaining indifferent even anything would have been better than what Alabin did do his face utterly involuntarily (reflex spinal action, reflected Stepan Arkadyevitch, who was fond of physiology) utterly involuntarily assumed his face habitual, good humored, and therefore idiotic smile.    This idiotic smile Alabin could not forgive Alabin. Catching sight of This idiotic smile, Dolly shuddered as though at physical pain, broke out with Dolly characteristic heat into a flood of cruel words, and rushed out of the room. Since then Dolly had refused to see Dolly husband.    “It that idiotic smile that to blame for it all,” thought Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “But what to be done? What to be done?” Alabin said to Alabin in despair, and found no answer.  CHAPTER 3
2    Stepan Arkadyevitch was a truthful man in Stepan Arkadyevitch relations with Stepan Arkadyevitch. Stepan Arkadyevitch was incapable of deceiving Stepan Arkadyevitch and persuading Stepan Arkadyevitch that Stepan Arkadyevitch repented of Stepan Arkadyevitch conduct. Stepan Arkadyevitch could not at this date repent of the fact that Stepan Arkadyevitch, a handsome, susceptible man of thirty four, was not in love with Stepan Arkadyevitch wife, the mother of five living and two dead children, and only a year younger than Stepan Arkadyevitch. All Stepan Arkadyevitch repented of was that Stepan Arkadyevitch had not succeeded better in hiding this date from Stepan Arkadyevitch wife. But Stepan Arkadyevitch felt all the difficulty of Stepan Arkadyevitch position and was sorry for Stepan Arkadyevitch wife, Stepan Arkadyevitch children, and Stepan Arkadyevitch. Possibly Stepan Arkadyevitch might have managed to conceal Stepan Arkadyevitch sins better from his wife if Stepan Arkadyevitch had anticipated that the knowledge of his children, and himself would have had such an effect on his wife. Stepan Arkadyevitch had never clearly thought out the subject, but Stepan Arkadyevitch had vaguely conceived that his wife must long ago have suspected Stepan Arkadyevitch of being unfaithful to his wife, and shut his wife eyes to the fact. Stepan Arkadyevitch had even supposed that his wife, a worn out woman no longer young or good looking, and in no way remarkable or interesting, merely a good mother, ought from a sense of fairness to take an indulgent view. It had turned out quite the other way.    “Oh, it awful! oh dear, oh dear! awful!” Stepan Arkadyevitch kept repeating to Stepan Arkadyevitch, and Stepan Arkadyevitch could think of nothing to be done. “And how well things were going up till now! how well we got on! his wife was contented and happy in his wife children; I never interfered with his wife in anything; I let his wife manage the children and the house just as his wife liked. It true it bad his wife having been a governess in the house. That bad! There something common, vulgar, in flirting with one governess. But what a governess!” (what a governess!” vividly recalled the roguish black eyes of Mlle. Roland and Roland smile.) “But after all, while Roland was in the house, I kept Roland in hand. And the worst of it all is that Roland already ... it seems as if ill luck would have it so! Oh, oh! But what, what is to be done?”    There was no solution, but that universal solution which life gives to all questions, even the most complex and insoluble. That answer is: one must live in the needs of the day that is, forget oneself. To forget oneself in sleep was impossible now, at least till nighttime; oneself could not go back now to the music sung by the decanter women; so oneself must forget oneself in the dream of daily life.    “Then we shall see,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Stepan Arkadyevitch, and getting up Stepan Arkadyevitch put on a gray dressing gown lined with blue silk, tied the tassels in a knot, and, drawing a deep breath of air into Stepan Arkadyevitch broad, bare chest, Stepan Arkadyevitch walked to the window with Stepan Arkadyevitch usual confident step, turning out Stepan Arkadyevitch feet that carried Stepan Arkadyevitch full frame so easily. Stepan Arkadyevitch pulled up the blind and rang the bell loudly. the bell was at once answered by the appearance of an old friend, Stepan Arkadyevitch valet, Matvey, carrying Stepan Arkadyevitch clothes, Stepan Arkadyevitch boots, and a telegram. Matvey was followed by the barber with all the necessaries for shaving.    “Are there any papers from the office?” asked Stepan Arkadyevitch, taking a telegram and seating Stepan Arkadyevitch at the looking glass.    “On the table,” replied Matvey, glancing with inquiring sympathy at Stepan Arkadyevitch master; and, after a short pause, Stepan Arkadyevitch added with a sly smile, “They’ve sent from the carriage jobbers.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch made no reply, Stepan Arkadyevitch merely glanced at Matvey in the looking glass. In the glance, in which their eyes met in the looking glass, it was clear that their understood one another. Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes asked: “Why do you tell me that? don’t you know?”    Matvey put Stepan Arkadyevitch hands in Stepan Arkadyevitch jacket pockets, thrust out one leg, and gazed silently, good humoredly, with a faint smile, at his master.    “I told them to come on Sunday, and till then not to trouble you or them for nothing,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said. Stepan Arkadyevitch had obviously prepared the sentence beforehand.    Stepan Arkadyevitch saw Matvey wanted to make a joke and attract attention to Stepan Arkadyevitch. Tearing open the telegram, Stepan Arkadyevitch read the telegram through, guessing at the words, misspelt as they always are in telegrams, and Stepan Arkadyevitch face brightened.    Matvey, my sister Anna Arkadyevna will be here tomorrow,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, checking for a minute the sleek, plump hand of the barber, cutting a pink path through Stepan Arkadyevitch long, curly whiskers.    “Thank God!” said Matvey, showing by this response that Stepan Arkadyevitch, like his master, realized the significance of this arrival that is, that Anna Arkadyevna, the sister Stepan Arkadyevitch was so fond of, might bring about a reconciliation between husband and wife.    “Alone, or with her husband?” inquired Matvey.    Stepan Arkadyevitch could not answer, as the barber was at work on Stepan Arkadyevitch upper lip, and Stepan Arkadyevitch raised one finger. Matvey nodded at the looking glass.    “Alone. Is the room to be got ready upstairs?”    “Inform Darya Alexandrovna: where she orders.”    “Darya Alexandrovna?” Matvey repeated, as though in doubt.    “Yes, inform she. Here, take the telegram; give the telegram to she, and then do what she tells you.”    “You want to try the telegram on,” Matvey understood, but Matvey only said, “Yes, Matvey.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch was already washed and combed and ready to be dressed, when Matvey, stepping deliberately in Stepan Arkadyevitch creaky boots, came back into the room with the telegram in Stepan Arkadyevitch hand. the barber had gone.    “Darya Alexandrovna told me to inform you that Darya Alexandrovna is going away. Let Stepan Arkadyevitch do that is you as Stepan Arkadyevitch likes,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, laughing only with Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes, and putting Stepan Arkadyevitch hands in Stepan Arkadyevitch pockets, Stepan Arkadyevitch watched Stepan Arkadyevitch master with Stepan Arkadyevitch head on one side. Stepan Arkadyevitch was silent a minute. Then a good humored and rather pitiful smile showed Stepan Arkadyevitch on Stepan Arkadyevitch handsome face.    “Eh, Matvey?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, shaking his head.    “It all right, Matvey; Matvey will come round,” said Matvey.    “Come round?”    “Yes, Matvey.”    “Do you think so? Who there?” asked Stepan Arkadyevitch, hearing the rustle of a woman dress at the door.    “It I,” said a firm, pleasant, woman voice, and the stern, pockmarked face of Matrona Philimonovna, the nurse, was thrust in at the doorway.    “Well, what is it, Matrona?” queried Stepan Arkadyevitch, going up to Stepan Arkadyevitch at the door.    Although Stepan Arkadyevitch was completely in the wrong as regards Stepan Arkadyevitch wife, and was conscious of this Stepan Arkadyevitch, almost everyone in the house (even the nurse, Darya Alexandrovna chief ally) was on Stepan Arkadyevitch side.    “Well, what now?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked disconsolately.    “Go to Stepan Arkadyevitch, Matvey; own your fault again. Maybe God will aid you. Stepan Arkadyevitch is suffering so, it sad to see Stepan Arkadyevitch; and besides, everything in the house is topsy turvy. You must have pity, sir, on the children. Beg Stepan Arkadyevitch forgiveness, Matvey. There no help for it! One must take the consequences....”    “But Stepan Arkadyevitch won’t see me.”    “You do your part. God is merciful; pray to God, sir, pray to God.”    “Come, that’ll do, you can go,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, blushing suddenly. “Well now, do dress me.” Stepan Arkadyevitch turned to Matvey and threw off Stepan Arkadyevitch dressing gown decisively.    Matvey was already holding up the shirt like a horse collar, and, blowing off some invisible speck, Stepan Arkadyevitch slipped Matvey with obvious pleasure over the well groomed body of Stepan Arkadyevitch master.  CHAPTER 4
3    When he was dressed, Stepan Arkadyevitch sprinkled some scent on he, pulled down he shirt cuffs, distributed into he pockets he cigarettes, pocketbook, matches, and watch with its double chain and seals, and shaking out he handkerchief, feeling he clean, fragrant, healthy, and physically at ease, in spite of he unhappiness, he walked with a slight swing on each leg into the dining room, where coffee was already waiting for he, and beside the coffee, letters and papers from the office.    he read the letters. One was very unpleasant, from a merchant who was buying a forest on he wife property. To sell a forest on his wife property was absolutely essential; but at present, until he was reconciled with he wife, the subject could not be discussed. The most unpleasant thing of all was that he pecuniary interests should in this way enter into the question of he reconciliation with his wife. And the idea that he might be led on by he interests, that he might seek a reconciliation with his wife on account of the sale of a forest on his wife property that idea hurt he.    When he had finished the letters, Stepan Arkadyevitch moved the office papers close to he, rapidly looked through two pieces of business, made a few notes with a big pencil, and pushing away the office papers close to him, turned to he coffee. As he sipped his coffee, he opened a still damp morning paper, and began reading a still damp morning paper.    Stepan Arkadyevitch took in and read a liberal paper, not an extreme one, but one advocating the views held by the majority. And in spite of the fact that science, art, and politics had no special interest for Stepan Arkadyevitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch firmly held those views on all these subjects which were held by the majority and by Stepan Arkadyevitch paper, and Stepan Arkadyevitch only changed the majority and by his paper when the majority changed the majority and by his paper or, more strictly speaking, Stepan Arkadyevitch did not change the majority and by his paper, but the majority and by his paper imperceptibly changed of the majority and by his paper within Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Stepan Arkadyevitch had not chosen Stepan Arkadyevitch political opinions or Stepan Arkadyevitch views; his political opinions or his views had come to Stepan Arkadyevitch of his political opinions or his views, just as Stepan Arkadyevitch did not choose the shapes of Stepan Arkadyevitch hat and coat, but simply took those that were being worn. And for Stepan Arkadyevitch, living in a certain society owing to the need, ordinarily developed at years of discretion, for some degree of mental activity to have views was just as indispensable as to have a hat. If there was a reason for Stepan Arkadyevitch preferring liberal to conservative views, which were held also by many of Stepan Arkadyevitch circle, it arose not from Stepan Arkadyevitch considering liberalism more rational, but from it being in closer accordance with Stepan Arkadyevitch manner of life. The liberal party said that in Russia everything is wrong, and certainly Stepan Arkadyevitch had many debts and was decidedly short of money. The liberal party said that marriage is an institution quite out of date, and that it needs reconstruction; and family life certainly afforded Stepan Arkadyevitch little gratification, and forced Stepan Arkadyevitch into lying and hypocrisy, which was so repulsive to Stepan Arkadyevitch nature. The liberal party said, or rather allowed it to be understood, that religion is only a curb to keep in check the barbarous classes of the people; and Stepan Arkadyevitch could not get through even a short service without Stepan Arkadyevitch legs aching from standing up, and could never make out what was the object of all the terrible and high flown language about another world when life might be so very amusing in another world. And with all this, Stepan Arkadyevitch, who liked a joke, was fond of puzzling a plain man by saying that if a plain man prided a plain man on a plain man origin, a plain man ought not to stop at Rurik and disown the first founder of a plain man family the monkey. And so Liberalism had become a habit of Stepan Arkadyevitch, and a plain man liked a plain man newspaper, as a plain man did a plain man cigar after dinner, for the slight fog his cigar diffused in a plain man brain. a plain man read the leading article, in which it was maintained that it was quite senseless in our day to raise an outcry that radicalism was threatening to swallow up all conservative elements, and that the government ought to take measures to crush the revolutionary hydra; that, on the contrary, “in our opinion the danger lies not in that fantastic revolutionary hydra, but in the obstinacy of traditionalism clogging progress,” etc., etc. a plain man read another article, too, a financial one, which alluded to Bentham and Mill, and dropped some innuendoes reflecting on the ministry. With a plain man characteristic quickwittedness a plain man caught the drift of each innuendo, divined whence it came, at whom and on what ground it was aimed, and that afforded a plain man, as it always did, a certain satisfaction. But today that satisfaction was embittered by Matrona Philimonovna advice and the unsatisfactory state of the household. a plain man read, too, that Count Beist was rumored to have left for Wiesbaden, and that one need have no more gray hair, and of the sale of a light carriage, and of a young person seeking a situation; but these items of information did not give a plain man, as usual, a quiet, ironical gratification. Having finished the paper, a second cup of coffee and a roll and butter, a plain man got up, shaking the crumbs of the roll off a plain man waistcoat; and, squaring a plain man broad chest, a plain man smiled joyously: not because there was anything particularly agreeable in a plain man mind the joyous smile was evoked by a good digestion.    But the joyous smile at once recalled everything to a plain man, and a plain man grew thoughtful.    Two childish voices (Stepan Arkadyevitch recognized the voices of Grisha, Stepan Arkadyevitch youngest boy, and Tanya, Stepan Arkadyevitch eldest girl) were heard outside the door. the voices of Grisha, his youngest boy, and Tanya, his eldest girl) were carrying something, and dropped the door.    “I told you not to sit passengers on the roof,” said the little girl in English; “there, pick the voices of Grisha, his youngest boy, and Tanya, his eldest girl) up!”    “Everything in confusion,” thought Stepan Arkadyevitch; “there are the children running about by the children running about by themselves.” And going to the door, a plain man called the children running about by themselves. the children running about by themselves threw down the box, that represented a train, and came in to the children running about by themselves father.    The little girl, her father favorite, ran up boldly, embraced a plain man, and hung laughingly on a plain man neck, enjoying as her always did the smell of scent that came from a plain man whiskers. At last the little girl in English kissed a plain man face, which was flushed from a plain man stooping posture and beaming with tenderness, loosed the little girl in English hands, and was about to run away again; but their father held the little girl in English back.    “How is mamma?” a plain man asked, passing a plain man hand over a plain man daughter smooth, soft little neck. “Good morning,” a plain man said, smiling to the boy, who had come up to greet a plain man. a plain man was conscious that a plain man loved a plain man less, and always tried to be fair; but a plain man felt it, and did not respond with a smile to their father chilly smile.    “Mamma? his daughter is up,” answered the little girl in English.    Stepan Arkadyevitch sighed. “That means that the little girl in English not slept again all night,” Stepan Arkadyevitch thought.    “Well, is the little girl in English cheerful?”    the little girl in English knew that there was a quarrel between the little girl in English father and mother, and that the little girl in English mother could not be cheerful, and that her mother must be aware of this, and that their father was pretending when their father asked about it so lightly. And her mother blushed for her mother . their father at once perceived it, and blushed too.    “I don’t know,” her mother said. “her mother did not say we must do we lessons, but her mother said we were to go for a walk with Miss Hoole to grandmamma.”    “Well, go, Tanya, my darling. Oh, wait a minute, though,” their father said, still holding her mother and stroking her mother soft little hand.    their father took off the mantelpiece, where their father had put it yesterday, a little box of sweets, and gave her mother two, picking out her mother favorites, a chocolate and a fondant.    “For Grisha?” said her mother, pointing to the chocolate.    “Yes, yes.” And still stroking her mother little shoulder, their father kissed her mother on the roots of her mother hair and neck, and let her mother go.    “The carriage is ready,” said Matvey; “but there someone to see you with a petition.”    “Been here long?” asked Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Half an hour.”    “How many times have I told you to tell me at once?”    “One must let you drink your coffee in peace, at least,” said Matvey, in the affectionately gruff tone with which it was impossible to be angry.    “Well, show the person up at once,” said Oblonsky, frowning with vexation.    The petitioner, the widow of a staff captain Kalinin, came with a request impossible and unreasonable; but Stepan Arkadyevitch, as Stepan Arkadyevitch generally did, made The petitioner, the widow of a staff captain Kalinin sit down, heard The petitioner, the widow of a staff captain Kalinin to the end attentively without interrupting The petitioner, the widow of a staff captain Kalinin, and gave The petitioner, the widow of a staff captain Kalinin detailed advice as to how and to whom to apply, and even wrote The petitioner, the widow of a staff captain Kalinin, in Stepan Arkadyevitch large, sprawling, good and legible hand, a confident and fluent little note to a personage who might be of use to The petitioner, the widow of a staff captain Kalinin. Having got rid of the staff captain widow, Stepan Arkadyevitch took Stepan Arkadyevitch hat and stopped to recollect whether Stepan Arkadyevitch had forgotten anything. It appeared that Stepan Arkadyevitch had forgotten nothing except what Stepan Arkadyevitch wanted to forget Stepan Arkadyevitch wife.    “Ah, yes!” Stepan Arkadyevitch bowed Stepan Arkadyevitch head, and Stepan Arkadyevitch handsome face assumed a harassed expression. “To go, or not to go!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Stepan Arkadyevitch; and an inner voice told Stepan Arkadyevitch Stepan Arkadyevitch must not go, that nothing could come of it but falsity; that to amend, to set right their relations was impossible, because it was impossible to make her attractive again and able to inspire love, or to make Stepan Arkadyevitch an old man, not susceptible to love. Except deceit and lying nothing could come of it now; and deceit and lying were opposed to Stepan Arkadyevitch nature.    “It must be some time, though: It can’t go on like this,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, trying to give Stepan Arkadyevitch courage. Stepan Arkadyevitch squared Stepan Arkadyevitch chest, took out a cigarette, took two whiffs at a cigarette, flung a cigarette into a mother of pearl ashtray, and with rapid steps walked through the drawing room, and opened the other door into his wife bedroom.  CHAPTER 5
4    Darya Alexandrovna, in a dressing jacket, and with 4    Darya Alexandrovna now scanty, once luxuriant and beautiful hair fastened up with hairpins on the nape of 4    Darya Alexandrovna neck, with a sunken, thin face and large, startled eyes, which looked prominent from the thinness of 4    Darya Alexandrovna face, was standing among a litter of all sorts of things scattered all over the room, before an open bureau, from which 4    Darya Alexandrovna was taking something. Hearing 4    Darya Alexandrovna husband steps, 4    Darya Alexandrovna stopped, looking towards the door, and trying assiduously to give 4    Darya Alexandrovna features a severe and contemptuous expression. 4    Darya Alexandrovna felt 4    Darya Alexandrovna was afraid of him, and afraid of the coming interview. 4    Darya Alexandrovna was just attempting to do what 4    Darya Alexandrovna had attempted to do ten times already in these last three days to sort out the children things and 4    Darya Alexandrovna own, so as to take the children things and her own to 4    Darya Alexandrovna mother and again 4    Darya Alexandrovna could not bring 4    Darya Alexandrovna to do this; but now again, as each time before, 4    Darya Alexandrovna kept saying to 4    Darya Alexandrovna, “that things cannot go on like this, that 4    Darya Alexandrovna must take some step” to punish him, put him to shame, avenge on him some little part at least of the suffering him had caused 4    Darya Alexandrovna. 4    Darya Alexandrovna still continued to tell 4    Darya Alexandrovna that 4    Darya Alexandrovna should leave him, but 4    Darya Alexandrovna was conscious that this was impossible; it was impossible because 4    Darya Alexandrovna could not get out of the habit of regarding him as 4    Darya Alexandrovna husband and loving him. Besides this, 4    Darya Alexandrovna realized that if even here in 4    Darya Alexandrovna own house 4    Darya Alexandrovna could hardly manage to look after 4    Darya Alexandrovna five children properly, her five children would be still worse off where 4    Darya Alexandrovna was going with them all. As it was, even in the course of these three days, the youngest was unwell from being given unwholesome soup, and the others had almost gone without the others dinner the day before. 4    Darya Alexandrovna was conscious that it was impossible to go away; but, cheating 4    Darya Alexandrovna, 4    Darya Alexandrovna went on all the same sorting out 4    Darya Alexandrovna things and pretending 4    Darya Alexandrovna was going.    Seeing her husband, 4    Darya Alexandrovna dropped 4    Darya Alexandrovna hands into the drawer of the bureau as though looking for something, and only looked round at her husband when her husband had come quite up to 4    Darya Alexandrovna. But 4    Darya Alexandrovna face, to which 4    Darya Alexandrovna tried to give a severe and resolute expression, betrayed bewilderment and suffering.    “Dolly!” her husband said in a subdued and timid voice. her husband bent her husband head towards her husband shoulder and tried to look pitiful and humble, but for all that her husband was radiant with freshness and health. In a rapid glance 4    Darya Alexandrovna scanned her husband figure that beamed with health and freshness. “Yes, her husband is happy and content!” 4    Darya Alexandrovna thought; “while I.... And that disgusting good nature, which everyone likes her husband for and praises I hate that good nature of her husband,” 4    Darya Alexandrovna thought. 4    Darya Alexandrovna mouth stiffened, the muscles of the cheek contracted on the right side of 4    Darya Alexandrovna pale, nervous face.    “What do you want?” 4    Darya Alexandrovna said in a rapid, deep, unnatural voice.    “Dolly!” her husband repeated, with a quiver in her husband voice. “4    Darya Alexandrovna is coming today.”    “Well, what is that to her husband? I can’t see 4    Darya Alexandrovna!” 4    Darya Alexandrovna cried.    “But you must, really, Dolly....”    “Go away, go away, go away!” 4    Darya Alexandrovna shrieked, not looking at her husband, as though this shriek were called up by physical pain.    Stepan Arkadyevitch could be calm when Stepan Arkadyevitch thought of Stepan Arkadyevitch wife, Stepan Arkadyevitch could hope that his wife would come round, as Matvey expressed it, and could quietly go on reading Stepan Arkadyevitch paper and drinking Stepan Arkadyevitch coffee; but when Stepan Arkadyevitch saw his wife tortured, suffering face, heard the tone of his wife voice, submissive to fate and full of despair, there was a catch in Stepan Arkadyevitch breath and a lump in Stepan Arkadyevitch throat, and Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes began to shine with tears.    “My God! what have I done? Dolly! For God sake!... You know....” Stepan Arkadyevitch could not go on; there was a sob in his throat.    his wife shut the bureau with a slam, and glanced at Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Dolly, what can I say?... One thing: forgive.... Remember, cannot nine years of my life atone for an instant....”    his wife dropped his eyes and listened, expecting what Stepan Arkadyevitch would say, as it were beseeching Stepan Arkadyevitch in some way or other to make his wife believe differently.    “ instant of passion?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, and would have gone on, but at that word, as at a pang of physical pain, his wife lips stiffened again, and again the muscles of his wife right cheek worked.    “Go away, go out of the room!” his wife shrieked still more shrilly, “and don’t talk to Stepan Arkadyevitch of your passion and your loathsomeness.”    his wife tried to go out, but tottered, and clung to the back of a chair to support his wife. Stepan Arkadyevitch face relaxed, her lips swelled, his eyes were swimming with tears.    “Dolly!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, sobbing now; “for mercy sake, think of the children; the children are not to blame! I am to blame, and punish me, make me expiate my fault. Anything I can do, I am ready to do anything! I am to blame, no words can express how much I am to blame! But, Dolly, forgive me!”    his wife sat down. Stepan Arkadyevitch listened to his wife hard, heavy breathing, and Stepan Arkadyevitch was unutterably sorry for his wife. his wife tried several times to begin to speak, but could not. Stepan Arkadyevitch waited.    “You remember the children, Stiva, to play with the children, Stiva; but I remember the children, Stiva, and know that this means the children, Stiva ruin,” his wife said obviously one of the phrases his wife had more than once repeated to his wife in the course of the last few days.    his wife had called Stepan Arkadyevitch “Stiva,” and Stepan Arkadyevitch glanced at his wife with gratitude, and moved to take his wife hand, but his wife drew back from Stepan Arkadyevitch with aversion.    “I think of the children, and for that reason I would do anything in the world to save the children, but I don’t Stepan Arkadyevitch know how to save the children. By taking the children away from the children father, or by leaving the children with a vicious father yes, a vicious father.... Tell me, after what ... has happened, can the children live together? Is that possible? Tell me, eh, is it possible?” his wife repeated, raising his wife voice, “after my husband, the father of my children, enters into a love affair with his own children governess?”    “But what could I do? what could I do?” his kept saying in a pitiful voice, not knowing what his was saying, as his head sank lower and lower.    “You are loathsome to Stepan Arkadyevitch, repulsive!” his wife shrieked, getting more and more heated. “Your tears mean nothing! You have never loved me; you have neither heart nor honorable feeling! You are hateful to Stepan Arkadyevitch, disgusting, a stranger yes, a complete stranger!” With pain and wrath his wife uttered the word so terrible to his wife stranger.    his looked at his wife, and the fury expressed in his wife face alarmed and amazed his. his did not understand how his pity for his wife exasperated his wife. his wife saw in his sympathy for his wife, but not love. “No, his wife hates me. his wife will not forgive me,” his thought.    “It is awful! awful!” his said.    At that moment in the next room a child began to cry; probably a child had fallen down. Darya Alexandrovna listened, and Darya Alexandrovna suddenly softened.    Darya Alexandrovna seemed to be pulling Darya Alexandrovna together for a few seconds, as though Darya Alexandrovna did not know where Darya Alexandrovna was, and what Darya Alexandrovna was doing, and getting up rapidly, Darya Alexandrovna moved towards the door.    “Well, Darya Alexandrovna loves a child,” a child thought, noticing the change of Darya Alexandrovna at the child cry, “a child: how can Darya Alexandrovna hate me?”    “Dolly, one word more,” a child said, following Darya Alexandrovna.    “If you come near a child, I will call in the servants, the children! the servants, the children may all know you are a scoundrel! I am going away at once, and you may live here with your mistress!”    And Darya Alexandrovna went out, slamming the door.    Stepan Arkadyevitch sighed, wiped Stepan Arkadyevitch , and with a subdued tread walked out of the next room. “Matvey says Matvey will come round; but how? I don’t see the least chance of it. Ah, oh, how horrible it is! And how vulgarly Matvey shouted,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Stepan Arkadyevitch, remembering Matvey shriek and the words “scoundrel” and “mistress.” “And very likely the maids were listening! Horribly vulgar! horrible!” Stepan Arkadyevitch stood a few seconds alone, wiped Stepan Arkadyevitch , squared Stepan Arkadyevitch chest, and walked out of the next room.    It was Friday, and in the next room the German watchmaker was winding up the clock. Stepan Arkadyevitch remembered Stepan Arkadyevitch joke about this punctual, bald watchmaker, “that the German was wound up for a whole lifetime himself, to wind up watches,” and Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled. Stepan Arkadyevitch was fond of a joke: “And maybe Matvey will come round! That a good expression, ‘come round,’” Stepan Arkadyevitch thought. “I must repeat that.”    Matvey!” Stepan Arkadyevitch shouted. “Arrange everything with Darya in the sitting room for Anna Arkadyevna,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Matvey when Stepan Arkadyevitch came in.    “Yes, Stepan Arkadyevitch.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch put on Stepan Arkadyevitch fur coat and went out onto the steps.    “You won’t dine at home?” said Matvey, seeing Matvey off.    “That as it happens. But here for the housekeeping,” Matvey said, taking ten roubles from Matvey pocketbook. “That’ll be enough.”    “Enough or not enough, we must make it do,” said Matvey, slamming the carriage door and stepping back onto the steps.    Darya Alexandrovna meanwhile having pacified the child, and knowing from the sound of the carriage that Darya Alexandrovna had gone off, went back again to Darya Alexandrovna bedroom. It was Darya Alexandrovna solitary refuge from the household cares which crowded upon Darya Alexandrovna directly Darya Alexandrovna went out from It. Even now, in the short time Darya Alexandrovna had been in the nursery, the English governess and Matrona Philimonovna had succeeded in putting several questions to Darya Alexandrovna, which did not admit of delay, and which only Darya Alexandrovna could answer: “What were the children to put on for the children walk? Should the children have any milk? Should not a new cook be sent for?”    “Ah, let me alone, let me alone!” Darya Alexandrovna said, and going back to her bedroom Darya Alexandrovna sat down in the same place as Darya Alexandrovna had sat when talking to Darya Alexandrovna , clasping tightly Darya Alexandrovna thin hands with the rings that slipped down on Darya Alexandrovna bony fingers, and fell to going over in Darya Alexandrovna memory all the conversation. “He has gone! But has He broken it off with Darya Alexandrovna?” Darya Alexandrovna thought. “Can it be He sees Darya Alexandrovna? Why didn’t I ask He! No, no, reconciliation is impossible. Even if we remain in the same house, we are strangers strangers forever!” Darya Alexandrovna repeated again with special significance the word so dreadful to Darya Alexandrovna. “And how I loved He! My God, how I loved He!... How I loved He! And now don’t I love He? Don’t I love He more than before? The most horrible thing is,” Darya Alexandrovna began, but did not finish Darya Alexandrovna thought, because Matrona Philimonovna put Darya Alexandrovna head in at the door.    “Let we send for my brother,” Darya Alexandrovna said; “He can get a dinner anyway, or we shall have the children getting nothing to eat till six again, like yesterday.”    “Very well, I will come directly and see about it. But did you send for some new milk?”    And Darya Alexandrovna plunged into the duties of the day, and drowned Darya Alexandrovna grief in them for a time.  CHAPTER 6
5    Stepan Arkadyevitch had learned easily at school, thanks to Stepan Arkadyevitch excellent abilities, but Stepan Arkadyevitch had been idle and mischievous, and therefore was one of the lowest in Stepan Arkadyevitch class. But in spite of Stepan Arkadyevitch habitually dissipated mode of life, Stepan Arkadyevitch inferior grade in the service, and Stepan Arkadyevitch comparative youth, Stepan Arkadyevitch occupied the honorable and lucrative position of president of one of the government boards at Moscow. This post Stepan Arkadyevitch had received through Stepan Arkadyevitch sister Anna husband, Alexey Alexandrovitch Karenin, who held one of the most important positions in the ministry to whose department the Moscow office belonged. But if Karenin had not got Karenin brother in law this berth, then through a hundred other personages brothers, sisters, cousins, uncles, and aunts Stiva Oblonsky would have received this post, or some other similar one, together with the salary of six thousand absolutely needful for Karenin, as Karenin affairs, in spite of Karenin wife considerable property, were in an embarrassed condition.    Half Moscow and Petersburg were friends and relations of Stepan Arkadyevitch. Stepan Arkadyevitch was born in the midst of those who had been and are the powerful ones of this world. One third of the men in the government, the older men, had been friends of Stepan Arkadyevitch father, and had known Stepan Arkadyevitch in petticoats; another third were Stepan Arkadyevitch intimate chums, and the remainder were friendly acquaintances. Consequently the distributors of earthly blessings in the shape of places, rents, shares, and such, were all Stepan Arkadyevitch friends, and could not overlook one of all his friends own set; and Oblonsky had no need to make any special exertion to get a lucrative post. Stepan Arkadyevitch had only not to refuse things, not to show jealousy, not to be quarrelsome or take offense, all of which from Stepan Arkadyevitch characteristic good nature Stepan Arkadyevitch never did. It would have struck Stepan Arkadyevitch as absurd if Stepan Arkadyevitch had been told that Stepan Arkadyevitch would not get a position with the salary Stepan Arkadyevitch required, especially as Stepan Arkadyevitch expected nothing out of the way; Stepan Arkadyevitch only wanted what the men of Stepan Arkadyevitch own age and standing did get, and Stepan Arkadyevitch was no worse qualified for performing duties of the kind than any other man.    Stepan Arkadyevitch was not merely liked by all who knew Stepan Arkadyevitch for Stepan Arkadyevitch good humor, but for Stepan Arkadyevitch bright disposition, and Stepan Arkadyevitch unquestionable honesty. In Stepan Arkadyevitch, in Stepan Arkadyevitch handsome, radiant figure, Stepan Arkadyevitch sparkling eyes, black hair and eyebrows, and the white and red of Stepan Arkadyevitch face, there was something which produced a physical effect of kindliness and good humor on the people who met Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Aha! Stiva! Oblonsky! Here Stepan Arkadyevitch is!” was almost always said with a smile of delight on meeting Stepan Arkadyevitch. Even though it happened at times that after a conversation with Stepan Arkadyevitch it seemed that nothing particularly delightful had happened, the next day, and the next, everyone was just as delighted at meeting Stepan Arkadyevitch again.    After filling for three years the post of president of one of the government boards at Moscow, Stepan Arkadyevitch had won the respect, as well as the liking, of Stepan Arkadyevitch fellow officials, subordinates, and superiors, and all who had had business with Stepan Arkadyevitch. The principal qualities in Stepan Arkadyevitch which had gained Stepan Arkadyevitch this universal respect in the service consisted, in the first place, of Stepan Arkadyevitch extreme indulgence for others, founded on a consciousness of Stepan Arkadyevitch own shortcomings; secondly, of Stepan Arkadyevitch perfect liberalism not the liberalism Stepan Arkadyevitch read of in the papers, but the liberalism that was in Stepan Arkadyevitch blood, in virtue of which Stepan Arkadyevitch treated all men perfectly equally and exactly the same, whatever all men fortune or calling might be; and thirdly the most important point Stepan Arkadyevitch complete indifference to the business in which Stepan Arkadyevitch was engaged, in consequence of which Stepan Arkadyevitch was never carried away, and never made mistakes.    On reaching the offices of the board, Stepan Arkadyevitch, escorted by a deferential porter with a portfolio, went into Stepan Arkadyevitch little private room, put on Stepan Arkadyevitch uniform, and went into the boardroom. The clerks and copyists all rose, greeting Stepan Arkadyevitch with good humored deference. Stepan Arkadyevitch moved quickly, as ever, to Stepan Arkadyevitch place, shook hands with Stepan Arkadyevitch colleagues, and sat down. Stepan Arkadyevitch made a joke or two, and talked just as much as was consistent with due decorum, and began work. No one knew better than Stepan Arkadyevitch how to hit on the exact line between freedom, simplicity, and official stiffness necessary for the agreeable conduct of business. A secretary, with the good humored deference common to everyone in Stepan Arkadyevitch office, came up with papers, and began to speak in the familiar and easy tone which had been introduced by Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “We have succeeded in getting the information from the government department of Penza. Here, would you care?...”    “You’ve got them at last?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laying Stepan Arkadyevitch finger on the paper. “Now, gentlemen....”    And the sitting of the board began.    “If them knew,” Stepan Arkadyevitch thought, bending Stepan Arkadyevitch head with a significant air as Stepan Arkadyevitch listened to the report, “what a guilty little boy them president was half an hour ago.” And Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes were laughing during the reading of the report. Till two o’clock the sitting of the board would go on without a break, and at two o’clock there would be an interval and luncheon.    It was not yet two, when the large glass doors of the boardroom suddenly opened and someone came in.    All the officials sitting on the further side under the portrait of the Tsar and the eagle, delighted at any distraction, looked round at the door; but the doorkeeper standing at the door at once drove out the intruder, and closed the door after the intruder.    When the case had been read through, Stepan Arkadyevitch got up and stretched, and by way of tribute to the liberalism of the times took out a cigarette in the boardroom and went into Stepan Arkadyevitch private room. Two of the members of the board, the old veteran in the service, Nikitin, and the Kammerjunker Grinevitch, went in with Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “We shall have time to finish after lunch,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “To be sure we shall!” said Nikitin.    “A pretty sharp fellow this Fomin must be,” said Grinevitch of one of the persons taking part in the case they were examining.    Stepan Arkadyevitch frowned at Grinevitch words, giving Stepan Arkadyevitch thereby to understand that it was improper to pass judgment prematurely, and made Stepan Arkadyevitch no reply.    “Who was that came in?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked the doorkeeper.    “Someone, your excellency, crept in without permission directly my back was turned. Stepan Arkadyevitch was asking for Someone, your excellency. I told Stepan Arkadyevitch: when the members come out, then....”    “Where is Stepan Arkadyevitch?”    “Maybe Stepan Arkadyevitch gone into the passage, but here Stepan Arkadyevitch comes anyway. That is Stepan Arkadyevitch,” said the doorkeeper, pointing to a strongly built, broad shouldered man with a curly beard, who, without taking off Stepan Arkadyevitch sheepskin cap, was running lightly and rapidly up the worn steps of the stone staircase. One of the members going down a lean official with a portfolio stood out of a lean official with a portfolio way and looked disapprovingly at the legs of the stranger, then glanced inquiringly at Oblonsky.    Stepan Arkadyevitch was standing at the top of the stairs. Stepan Arkadyevitch good naturedly beaming face above the embroidered collar of Stepan Arkadyevitch uniform beamed more than ever when Stepan Arkadyevitch recognized Stepan Arkadyevitch coming up.    “Why, it actually you, Levin, at last!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said with a friendly mocking smile, scanning Levin as Stepan Arkadyevitch approached. “How is it you have deigned to look me up in this den?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and not content with shaking hands, Stepan Arkadyevitch kissed Stepan Arkadyevitch friend. “Have you been here long?”    “I have just come, and very much wanted to see you,” said Levin, looking shyly and at the same time angrily and uneasily around.    “Well, let go into my room,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, who knew his friend sensitive and irritable shyness, and, taking Stepan Arkadyevitch arm, Stepan Arkadyevitch drew Stepan Arkadyevitch along, as though guiding Stepan Arkadyevitch through dangers.    Stepan Arkadyevitch was on familiar terms with almost all Stepan Arkadyevitch acquaintances, and called almost all of almost all his acquaintances by almost all his acquaintances Christian names: old men of sixty, boys of twenty, actors, ministers, merchants, and adjutant generals, so that many of Stepan Arkadyevitch intimate chums were to be found at the extreme ends of the social ladder, and would have been very much surprised to learn that almost all his acquaintances had, through the medium of Oblonsky, something in common. Stepan Arkadyevitch was the familiar friend of everyone with whom Stepan Arkadyevitch took a glass of champagne, and Stepan Arkadyevitch took a glass of champagne with everyone, and when in consequence Stepan Arkadyevitch met any of Stepan Arkadyevitch disreputable chums, as Stepan Arkadyevitch used in joke to call many of Stepan Arkadyevitch friends, in the presence of Stepan Arkadyevitch subordinates, Stepan Arkadyevitch well knew how, with Stepan Arkadyevitch characteristic tact, to diminish the disagreeable impression made on he used in joke to call many of his friends, in the presence of his subordinates. Levin was not a disreputable chum, but Oblonsky, with Levin ready tact, felt that Levin fancied Levin might not care to show Levin intimacy with Levin before Levin subordinates, and so Levin made haste to take Levin off into Levin .    Levin was almost of the same age as Oblonsky; their intimacy did not rest merely on champagne. Levin had been the friend and companion of Levin early youth. the friend and companion of his early youth were fond of one another in spite of the difference of the friend and companion of his early youth characters and tastes, as friends are fond of one another who have been together in early youth. But in spite of this, each of the friend and companion of his early youth as is often the way with men who have selected careers of different kinds though in discussion Levin would even justify the other career, in Levin heart despised it. It seemed to each of the friend and companion of his early youth that the life Levin led Levin was the only real life, and the life led by his friend was a mere phantasm. Oblonsky could not restrain a slight mocking smile at the sight of Levin. How often Levin had seen Levin come up to Moscow from the country where Levin was doing something, but what precisely Stepan Arkadyevitch could never quite make out, and indeed Levin took no interest in the matter. Levin arrived in Moscow always excited and in a hurry, rather ill at ease and irritated by Levin own want of ease, and for the most part with a perfectly new, unexpected view of things. Stepan Arkadyevitch laughed at this, and liked this. In the same way Levin in Levin heart despised the town mode of life of his friend, and Levin official duties, which Levin laughed at, and regarded as trifling. But the difference was that Oblonsky, as Levin was doing the same as everyone did, laughed complacently and good humoredly, while Levin laughed without complacency and sometimes angrily.    “We have long been expecting you,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, going into his private room and letting Levin hand go as though to show that here all danger was over. “I am very, very glad to see you,” Stepan Arkadyevitch went on. “Well, how are you? Eh? When did you come?”    Levin was silent, looking at the unknown faces of Oblonsky two companions, and especially at the hand of the elegant Grinevitch, which had such long white fingers, such long yellow filbert shaped nails, and such huge shining studs on the shirt cuff, that apparently they absorbed all Levin attention, and allowed Levin no freedom of thought. Oblonsky noticed this at once, and smiled.    “Ah, to be sure, let me introduce you,” Levin said. “My colleagues: Philip Ivanitch Nikitin, Mihail Stanislavitch Grinevitch” and turning to Levin “a district councilor, a modern district councilman, a gymnast who lifts thirteen stone with one hand, a cattle breeder and sportsman, and my friend, Konstantin Dmitrievitch Levin, the brother of Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev.”    “Delighted,” said the veteran.    “I have the honor of knowing your brother, Sergey Ivanovitch,” said Mihail Stanislavitch Grinevitch, holding out Mihail Stanislavitch Grinevitch slender hand with Mihail Stanislavitch Grinevitch long nails.    Levin frowned, shook hands coldly, and at once turned to Oblonsky. Though Levin had a great respect for Levin half brother, an author well known to all Russia, Levin could not endure it when people treated Levin not as Levin, but as the brother of the celebrated Koznishev.    “No, I am no longer a district councilor. I have quarreled with them all, and don’t go to the meetings any more,” Levin said, turning to Oblonsky.    “You’ve been quick about it!” said Oblonsky with a smile. “But how? why?”    “It a long story. I will tell you some time,” said Levin, but Levin began telling Levin at once. “Well, to put it shortly, I was convinced that nothing was really done by the district councils, or ever could be,” Levin began, as though someone had just insulted someone. “On one side it a plaything; they play at being a parliament, and I’m neither young enough nor old enough to find amusement in playthings; and on the other side” (he stammered) “it a means for the coterie of the district to make money. Formerly they had wardships, courts of justice, now they have the district council not in the form of bribes, but in the form of unearned salary,” he said, as hotly as though someone of those present had opposed he opinion.    “Aha! You’re in a new phase again, I see a conservative,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “However, we can go into that later.”    “Yes, later. But I wanted to see you,” said Levin, looking with hatred at Grinevitch hand.    Stepan Arkadyevitch gave a scarcely perceptible smile.    “How was it you used to say you would never wear European dress again?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, scanning Stepan Arkadyevitch new suit, obviously cut by a French tailor. “Ah! I see: a new phase.”    Levin suddenly blushed, not as grown men blush, slightly, without being grown men aware of it, but as boys blush, feeling that grown men are ridiculous through grown men shyness, and consequently ashamed of it and blushing still more, almost to the point of tears. And it was so strange to see this sensible, manly face in such a childish plight, that Oblonsky left off looking at Oblonsky.    “Oh, where shall we meet? You know I want very much to talk to you,” said Levin.    Oblonsky seemed to ponder.    “I’ll tell you what: let go to Gurin to lunch, and there we can talk. I am free till three.”    “No,” answered Levin, after an instant thought, “I have got to go on somewhere else.”    “All right, then, let dine together.”    “Dine together? But I have nothing very particular, only a few words to say, and a question I want to ask you, and we can have a talk afterwards.”    “Well, say the few words, then, at once, and we’ll gossip after dinner.”    “Well, it this,” said Levin; “but it of no importance, though.”    His face all at once took an expression of anger from the effort His was making to surmount His shyness.    “What are the Shtcherbatskys doing? Everything as the Shtcherbatskys used to be?” His said.    Stepan Arkadyevitch, who had long known that Levin was in love with Levin sister in law, Kitty, gave a hardly perceptible smile, and Levin eyes sparkled merrily.    “You said a few words, but I can’t answer in a few words, because.... Excuse me a minute....”    A secretary came in, with respectful familiarity and the modest consciousness, characteristic of every secretary, of superiority to A secretary chief in the knowledge of their business; A secretary went up to Oblonsky with some papers, and began, under pretense of asking a question, to explain some objection. Stepan Arkadyevitch, without hearing Stepan Arkadyevitch out, laid Stepan Arkadyevitch hand genially on A secretary.    “No, you do as I told you,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, softening Stepan Arkadyevitch words with a smile, and with a brief explanation of Stepan Arkadyevitch view of the matter Stepan Arkadyevitch turned away from the papers, and said: “So do it that way, if you please, Zahar Nikititch.”    A secretary retired in confusion. During the consultation with A secretary had completely recovered from A secretary embarrassment. A secretary was standing with A secretary elbows on the back of a chair, and on A secretary face was a look of ironical attention.    “I don’t understand it, I don’t understand it,” A secretary said.    “What don’t you understand?” said Oblonsky, smiling as brightly as ever, and picking up a cigarette. Oblonsky expected some queer outburst from Levin.    “I don’t understand what you are doing,” said Levin, shrugging Levin shoulders. “How can you do it seriously?”    “Why not?”    “Why, because there nothing in it.”    “You think so, but we’re overwhelmed with work.”    “On paper. But, there, you’ve a gift for it,” added Levin.    “That to say, you think there a lack of something in me?”    “Perhaps so,” said Levin. “But all the same I admire your grandeur, and am proud that I’ve a friend in such a great person. You’ve not answered my question, though,” he went on, with a desperate effort looking Oblonsky straight in the face.    “Oh, that all very well. You wait a bit, and you’ll come to this me. this very nice for you to have over six thousand acres in the Karazinsky district, and such muscles, and the freshness of a girl of twelve; still you’ll be one of us one day. Yes, as to your question, there is no change, but no change a pity you’ve been away so long.”    “Oh, why so?” Levin queried, panic stricken.    “Oh, nothing,” responded Oblonsky. “us’ll talk it over. But what brought you up to town?”    “Oh, us’ll talk about that, too, later on,” said Levin, reddening again up to Levin ears.    “All right. I see,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “I should ask you to come to us, you know, but my wife not quite the thing. But I tell you what; if you want to see them, them’re sure now to be at the Zoological Gardens from four to five. Kitty skates. You drive along there, and I’ll come and fetch you, and us’ll go and dine somewhere together.”    “Capital. So good bye till then.”    “Now mind, you’ll forget, I know you, or rush off home to the country!” Stepan Arkadyevitch called out laughing.    “No, truly!”    And Levin went out of the room, only when Levin was in the doorway remembering that Levin had forgotten to take leave of Oblonsky colleagues.    “That gentleman must be a man of great energy,” said Grinevitch, when Levin had gone away.    “Yes, my dear boy,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, nodding Stepan Arkadyevitch head, “Stepan Arkadyevitch a lucky fellow! Over six thousand acres in the Karazinsky district; everything before Stepan Arkadyevitch; and what youth and vigor! Not like some of us.”    “You have a great deal to complain of, haven’t you, Stepan Arkadyevitch?”    “Ah, yes, I’m in a poor way, a bad way,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch with a heavy sigh.  CHAPTER 7
6    When Oblonsky asked Levin what had brought Levin to town, Levin blushed, and was furious with Levin for blushing, because Levin could not answer, “I have come to make your sister in law an offer,” though that was precisely what Levin had come for.    The families of the Levins and the Shtcherbatskys were old, noble Moscow families, and had always been on intimate and friendly terms. This intimacy had grown still closer during Levin student days. Levin had both prepared for the university with the young Prince Shtcherbatsky, the brother of Kitty and Dolly, and had entered at the same time with Levin. In those days Levin used often to be in the Shtcherbatskys’ house, and Levin was in love with the Shtcherbatsky household. Strange as it may appear, it was with the household, the family, that Levin was in love, especially with the feminine half of the household. Levin did not remember Levin own mother, and Levin only sister was older than Levin was, so that it was in the Shtcherbatskys’ house that Levin saw for the first time that inner life of an old, noble, cultivated, and honorable family of which Levin had been deprived by the death of Levin father and mother. All the members of that family, especially the feminine half, were pictured by Levin, as it were, wrapped about with a mysterious poetical veil, and Levin not only perceived no defects whatever in All the members of that family, especially the feminine half, but under the poetical veil that shrouded All the members of that family, especially the feminine half Levin assumed the existence of the loftiest sentiments and every possible perfection. Why it was the three young ladies had one day to speak French, and the next English; why it was that at certain hours the three young ladies played by turns on the piano, the sounds of which were audible in the three young ladies brother room above, where the students used to work; why the students were visited by those professors of French literature, of music, of drawing, of dancing; why at certain hours all the three young ladies, with Mademoiselle Linon, drove in the coach to the Tversky boulevard, dressed in the students satin cloaks, Dolly in a long one, Natalia in a half long one, and Kitty in one so short that Natalia shapely legs in tightly drawn red stockings were visible to all beholders; why it was the students had to walk about the Tversky boulevard escorted by a footman with a gold cockade in his hat all this and much more that was done in the students mysterious world his did not understand, but his was sure that everything that was done there was very good, and his was in love precisely with the mystery of the proceedings.    In his student days his had all but been in love with the eldest, Dolly, but the eldest was soon married to Oblonsky. Then his began being in love with the second. his felt, as it were, that his had to be in love with one of the sisters, only his could not quite make out which. But Natalia, too, had hardly made Natalia appearance in the world when Natalia married the diplomat Lvov. Kitty was still a child when Levin left the university. Young Shtcherbatsky went into the navy, was drowned in the Baltic, and Levin relations with the Shtcherbatskys, in spite of Young Shtcherbatsky friendship with Oblonsky, became less intimate. But when early in the winter of this year Levin came to Moscow, after a year in Moscow, and saw the Shtcherbatskys, Levin realized which of the three sisters Levin was indeed destined to love.    One would have thought that nothing could be simpler than for Levin, a man of good family, rather rich than poor, and thirty two years old, to make the young Princess Shtcherbatskaya an offer of marriage; in all likelihood Levin would at once have been looked upon as a good match. But Levin was in love, and so it seemed to Levin that Kitty was so perfect in every respect that Kitty was a creature far above everything earthly; and that Levin was a creature so low and so earthly that it could not even be conceived that other people and Kitty herself could regard Levin as worthy of Kitty.    After spending two months in Moscow in a state of enchantment, seeing Kitty almost every day in society, into which Levin went so as to meet Kitty, Levin abruptly decided that it could not be, and went back to the country.    Levin conviction that it could not be was founded on the idea that in the eyes of Kitty family Levin was a disadvantageous and worthless match for KittyKitty, and that Kitty could not love Levin. In Kitty family eyes Levin had no ordinary, definite career and position in society, while Levin contemporaries by this time, when Levin was thirty two, were already, one a colonel, and another a professor, another director of a bank and railways, or president of a board like Oblonsky. But Levin (Levin knew very well how Levin must appear to others) was a country gentleman, occupied in breeding cattle, shooting game, and building barns; in other words, a fellow of no ability, who had not turned out well, and who was doing just what, according to the ideas of the world, is done by people fit for nothing else.    The mysterious, enchanting Kitty could not love such an ugly person as he conceived he to be, and, above all, such an ordinary, in no way striking person. Moreover, he attitude to Kitty in the past the attitude of a grown up person to a child, arising from he friendship with Kitty brother seemed to he yet another obstacle to love. An ugly, good natured man, as he considered he, might, he supposed, be liked as a friend; but to be loved with such a love as that with which he loved Kitty, one would need to be a handsome and, still more, a distinguished man.    he had heard that women often did care for ugly and ordinary men, but he did not believe it, for he judged by he, and he could not he have loved any but beautiful, mysterious, and exceptional women.    But after spending two months alone in the country, he was convinced that this was not one of those passions of which he had had experience in he early youth; that this feeling gave he not an instant rest; that he could not live without deciding the question, would she or would she not be he wife, and that he despair had arisen only from he own imaginings, that he had no sort of proof that he would be rejected. And he had now come to Moscow with a firm determination to make an offer, and get married if he were accepted. Or ... he could not conceive what would become of he if he were rejected.  CHAPTER 8
7    On arriving in Moscow by a morning train, Levin had put up at the house of Levin elder half brother, Koznishev. After changing Levin clothes Levin went down to Levin brother study, intending to talk to Levin at once about the object of Levin visit, and to ask Levin advice; but Levin brother was not alone. With his brother there was a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between the house of his elder half brother, Koznishev on a very important philosophical question. a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question was carrying on a hot crusade against materialists. a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question had been following this crusade with interest, and after reading a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question last article, a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question had written a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question a letter stating a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question objections. a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question accused a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question. And a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question had promptly appeared to argue the matter out. The point in discussion was the question then in vogue: Is there a line to be drawn between psychological and physiological phenomena in man? and if so, where?    Sergey Ivanovitch met Sergey Ivanovitch with the smile of chilly friendliness Sergey Ivanovitch always had for everyone, and introducing Sergey Ivanovitch to a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question, went on with the conversation.    A little man in spectacles, with a narrow forehead, tore Sergey Ivanovitch from the discussion for an instant to greet Levin, and then went on talking without paying any further attention to Sergey Ivanovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch sat down to wait till a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question should go, but Sergey Ivanovitch soon began to get interested in the subject under discussion.    Sergey Ivanovitch had come across the magazine articles about which they were disputing, and had read they, interested in they as a development of the first principles of science, familiar to Sergey Ivanovitch as a natural science student at the university. But Sergey Ivanovitch had never connected these scientific deductions as to the origin of man as an animal, as to reflex action, biology, and sociology, with those questions as to the meaning of life and death to himself, which had of late been more and more often in Sergey Ivanovitch mind.    As Sergey Ivanovitch listened to Sergey Ivanovitch brother argument with a well known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question, Sergey Ivanovitch noticed that they connected these scientific questions with those spiritual problems, that at times they almost touched on the latter; but every time they were close upon what seemed to Sergey Ivanovitch the chief point, they promptly beat a hasty retreat, and plunged again into a sea of subtle distinctions, reservations, quotations, allusions, and appeals to authorities, and it was with difficulty that Sergey Ivanovitch understood what they were talking about.    “I cannot admit it,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, with Sergey Ivanovitch habitual clearness, precision of expression, and elegance of phrase. “I cannot in any case agree with Keiss that my whole conception of the external world has been derived from perceptions. The most fundamental idea, the idea of existence, has not been received by me through sensation; indeed, there is no special sense organ for the transmission of such an idea.”    “Yes, but they Wurt, and Knaust, and Pripasov would answer that your consciousness of existence is derived from the conjunction of all your sensations, that that consciousness of existence is the result of your sensations. Wurt, indeed, says plainly that, assuming there are no sensations, Wurt follows that there is no idea of existence.”    “I maintain the contrary,” began Sergey Ivanovitch.    But here it seemed to Levin that just as they were close upon the real point of the matter, they were again retreating, and Levin made up Levin mind to put a question to the professor.    “According to that, if my senses are annihilated, if my body is dead, I can have no existence of any sort?” my body is dead queried.    The professor, in annoyance, and, as it were, mental suffering at the interruption, looked round at the strange inquirer, more like a bargeman than a philosopher, and turned my body is dead eyes upon Sergey Ivanovitch, as though to ask: What one to say to my body is dead? But Sergey Ivanovitch, who had been talking with far less heat and one sidedness than the professor, and who had sufficient breadth of mind to answer the professor, and at the same time to comprehend the simple and natural point of view from which the question was put, smiled and said:    “the question we have no right to answer as yet.”    “we have not the requisite data,” chimed in the professor, and the professor went back to the professor argument. “No,” the professor said; “I would point out the fact that if, as Pripasov directly asserts, perception is based on sensation, then we are bound to distinguish sharply between these two conceptions.”    Levin listened no more, and simply waited for the professor to go.  CHAPTER 9
8    When the professor had gone, Sergey Ivanovitch turned to Sergey Ivanovitch brother.    “Delighted that you’ve come. For some time, is it? How your farming getting on?”    Levin knew that Levin took little interest in farming, and only put the question in deference to his brother, and so his brother only told his brother about the sale of his brother wheat and money matters.    Levin had meant to tell Levin brother of Levin determination to get married, and to ask Levin advice; Levin had indeed firmly resolved to do so. But after seeing Levin , listening to Levin conversation with the professor, hearing afterwards the unconsciously patronizing tone in which Levin questioned Levin about agricultural matters (their mother property had not been divided, and Levin took charge of both their shares), Levin felt that Levin could not for some reason begin to talk to Levin of Levin intention of marrying. Levin felt that Levin would not look at it as his brother would have wished his brother to.    “Well, how is your district council doing?” asked Sergey Ivanovitch, who was greatly interested in these local boards and attached great importance to these local boards.    “I really don’t know.”    “What! Why, surely you’re a member of the board?”    “No, I’m not a member now; I’ve resigned,” answered Levin, “and I no longer attend the meetings.”    “What a pity!” commented Sergey Ivanovitch, frowning.    Levin in self defense began to describe what took place in the meetings in Levin district.    “That how it always is!” Sergey Ivanovitch interrupted Sergey Ivanovitch. “We Russians are always like that. Perhaps it our strong point, really, the faculty of seeing our own shortcomings; but our overdo it, our comfort our with irony which our always have on the tip of our tongues. All I say is, give such rights as our local self government to any other European people why, the Germans or the English would have worked the Germans or the English way to freedom from the Germans or the English, while we simply turn the Germans or the English into ridicule.”    “But how can it be helped?” said Levin penitently. “It was my last effort. And I did try with all my soul. I can’t. I’m no good at it.”    “It not that you’re no good at it,” said Sergey Ivanovitch; “it is that you don’t look at it as you should.”    “Perhaps not,” Levin answered dejectedly.    “Oh! do you know brother Nikolay turned up again?”    brother Nikolay was the elder brother of Konstantin Levin, and half brother of Sergey Ivanovitch; a man utterly ruined, who had dissipated the greater part of a man fortune, was living in the strangest and lowest company, and had quarreled with a man brothers.    “What did you say?” Levin cried with horror. “How do you know?”    “Prokofy saw Prokofy in the street.”    “Here in Moscow? Where is Prokofy? Do you know?” Levin got up from Levin chair, as though on the point of starting off at once.    “I am sorry I told you,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, shaking Levin head at Levin younger brother excitement. “I sent to find out where Prokofy is living, and sent Prokofy Prokofy IOU to Trubin, which I paid. This is the answer Prokofy sent me.”    And Sergey Ivanovitch took a note from under a paper weight and handed a paper weight to Sergey Ivanovitch brother.    Levin read in the queer, familiar handwriting: “I humbly beg you to leave me in peace. That the only favor I ask of his brothers. Levin.”    Levin read it, and without raising his head stood with the note in Levin hands opposite Sergey Ivanovitch.    There was a struggle in Levin heart between the desire to forget Levin unhappy brother for the time, and the consciousness that it would be base to do so.    “Levin obviously wants to offend me,” pursued Sergey Ivanovitch; “but Levin cannot offend me, and I should have wished with all my heart to assist Levin, but I know it impossible to do that.”    “Yes, yes,” repeated Levin. “I understand and appreciate your attitude to Levin; but I shall go and see Levin.”    “If you want to, do; but I shouldn’t advise it,” said Sergey Ivanovitch. “As regards myself, I have no fear of your doing so; Levin will not make you quarrel with myself; but for your own sake, I should say you would do better not to go. You can’t do Levin any good; still, do as you please.”    “Very likely I can’t do any good, but I feel especially at such a moment but that another thing I feel I could not be at peace.”    “Well, that I don’t understand,” said Sergey Ivanovitch. “One thing I do understand,” Sergey Ivanovitch added; “it a lesson in humility. I have come to look very differently and more charitably on what is called infamous since brother Nikolay has become what brother Nikolay is ... you know what brother Nikolay did....”    “Oh, it awful, awful!” repeated Levin.    After obtaining brother Nikolay brother address from Sergey Ivanovitch footman, Levin was on the point of setting off at once to see Levin, but on second thought Levin decided to put off Levin visit till the evening. The first thing to do to set Levin heart at rest was to accomplish what Levin had come to Moscow for. From brother Nikolay went to Oblonsky office, and on getting news of the Shtcherbatskys from brother Nikolay, brother Nikolay drove to the place where brother Nikolay had been told brother Nikolay might find Kitty.  CHAPTER 10
9    At four o’clock, conscious of Levin throbbing heart, Levin stepped out of a hired sledge at the Zoological Gardens, and turned along the path to the frozen mounds and the skating ground, knowing that Levin would certainly find her there, as Levin had seen the Shtcherbatskys’ carriage at the entrance.    It was a bright, frosty day. Rows of carriages, sledges, drivers, and policemen were standing in the approach. Crowds of well dressed people, with hats bright in the sun, swarmed about the entrance and along the well swept little paths between the little houses adorned with carving in the Russian style. The old curly birches of the gardens, all their twigs laden with snow, looked as though freshly decked in sacred vestments.    Levin walked along the path towards the skating ground, and kept saying to Levin “You mustn’t be excited, you must be calm. What the matter with you? What do you want? Be quiet, stupid,” Levin conjured Levin heart. And the more Levin tried to compose Levin, the more breathless Levin found Levin. An acquaintance met Levin and called Levin by Levin name, but Levin did not even recognize Levin. Levin went towards the mounds, whence came the clank of the chains of sledges as they slipped down or were dragged up, the rumble of the sliding sledges, and the sounds of merry voices. Levin walked on a few steps, and the skating ground lay open before Levin eyes, and at once, amidst all the skaters, Levin knew her.    Levin knew her was there by the rapture and the terror that seized on Levin heart. her was standing talking to a lady at the opposite end of the ground. There was apparently nothing striking either in her dress or her attitude. But for Levin her was as easy to find in that crowd as a rose among nettles. Everything was made bright by her. her was the smile that shed light on all round her. “Is it possible I can go over there on the ice, go up to her?” Levin thought. The place where her stood seemed to Levin a holy shrine, unapproachable, and there was one moment when Levin was almost retreating, so overwhelmed was Levin with terror. Levin had to make an effort to master Levin, and to remind Levin that people of all sorts were moving about her, and that Levin too might come there to skate. Levin walked down, for a long while avoiding looking at her as at the sun, but seeing her, as one does the sun, without looking.    On that day of the week and at that time of day people of one set, all acquainted with one another, used to meet on the ice. There were crack skaters there, showing off crack skaters skill, and learners clinging to chairs with timid, awkward movements, boys, and elderly people skating with hygienic motives. They seemed to Levin an elect band of blissful beings because They were here, near her. All the skaters, it seemed, with perfect self possession, skated towards her, skated by her, even spoke to her, and were happy, quite apart from her, enjoying the capital ice and the fine weather.    Nikolay Shtcherbatsky, Kitty cousin, in a short jacket and tight trousers, was sitting on a garden seat with his skates on. Seeing Levin, Levin shouted to Levin:    “Ah, the first skater in Russia! Been here long? First rate ice do put your skates on.”    “I haven’t got your skates,” Levin answered, marveling at this boldness and ease in her presence, and not for one second losing sight of her, though Levin did not look at her. Levin felt as though the sun were coming near Levin. her was in a corner, and turning out her slender feet in her slender feet high boots with obvious timidity, her skated towards Levin. A boy in Russian dress, desperately waving Levin arms and bowed down to the ground, overtook her. her skated a little uncertainly; taking her hands out of the little muff that hung on a cord, her held them ready for emergency, and looking towards Levin, whom her had recognized, her smiled at Levin, and at her own fears. When her had got round the turn, her gave her a push off with one foot, and skated straight up to Shtcherbatsky. Clutching at Levin arm, her nodded smiling to Levin. her was more splendid than Levin had imagined her.    When Levin thought of her, Levin could call up a vivid picture of her to Levin, especially the charm of that little fair head, so freely set on the shapely girlish shoulders, and so full of childish brightness and good humor. The childishness of her expression, together with the delicate beauty of her figure, made up her special charm, and that Levin fully realized. But what always struck Levin in her as something unlooked for, was the expression of her eyes, soft, serene, and truthful, and above all, her smile, which always transported Levin to an enchanted world, where Levin felt Levin softened and tender, as Levin remembered Levin in some days of Levin early childhood.    “Have you been here long?” her said, giving Levin her hand. “Thank you,” her added, as Levin picked up the handkerchief that had fallen out of her muff.    “I? I’ve not long ... yesterday ... I mean today ... I arrived,” answered Levin, in Levin emotion not at once understanding her question. “I was meaning to come and see you,” Levin said; and then, recollecting with what intention Levin was trying to see her, Levin was promptly overcome with confusion and blushed.    “I didn’t know you could skate, and skate so well.”    her looked at Levin earnestly, as though wishing to make out the cause of Levin confusion.    “Your praise is worth having. The tradition is kept up here that you are the best of skaters,” her said, with her little black gloved hand brushing a grain of hoarfrost off her muff.    “Yes, I used once to skate with passion; I wanted to reach perfection.”    “You do everything with passion, I think,” her said smiling. “I should so like to see how you skate. Put on skates, and let us skate together.”    “Skate together! Can that be possible?” thought Levin, gazing at her.    “I’ll put them on directly,” Levin said.    And Levin went off to get skates.    “It a long while since we’ve seen you here, sir,” said the attendant, supporting Levin foot, and screwing on the heel of the skate. “Except you, there none of the gentlemen first rate skaters. Will that be all right?” said Levin, tightening the strap.    “Oh, yes, yes; make haste, please,” answered Levin, with difficulty restraining the smile of rapture which would overspread Levin face. “Yes,” Levin thought, “this now is life, this is happiness! Together, she said; let us skate together! Speak to she now? But that just why I’m afraid to speak because I’m happy now, happy in hope, anyway.... And then?... But I must! I must! I must! Away with weakness!”    Levin rose to Levin feet, took off Levin overcoat, and scurrying over the rough ice round the hut, came out on the smooth ice and skated without effort, as his feet were, by simple exercise of will, increasing and slackening speed and turning Levin course. Levin approached with timidity, but again she smile reassured Levin.    she gave Levin she hand, and they set off side by side, going faster and faster, and the more rapidly they moved the more tightly she grasped her hand.    “With you I should soon learn; I somehow feel confidence in you,” she said to Levin.    “And I have confidence in Levin when you are leaning on Levin,” Levin said, but was at once panic stricken at what Levin had said, and blushed. And indeed, no sooner had Levin uttered these words, when all at once, like the sun going behind a cloud, she face lost all her face friendliness, and Levin detected the familiar change in she expression that denoted the working of thought; a crease showed on she smooth brow.    “Is there anything troubling you? though I’ve no right to ask such a question,” Levin added hurriedly.    “Oh, why so?... No, I have nothing to trouble me,” she responded coldly; and she added immediately: “You haven’t seen Mlle. Linon, have you?”    “Not yet.”    “Go and speak to she, she likes you so much.”    “What wrong? I have offended she. Lord help me!” thought Levin, and Levin flew towards the old Frenchwoman with the gray ringlets, who was sitting on a bench. Smiling and showing she false teeth, she greeted Levin as an old friend.    “Yes, you see we’re growing up,” she said to Levin, glancing towards Kitty, “and growing old. Tiny bear has grown big now!” pursued the old Frenchwoman, laughing, and she reminded Levin of Levin joke about the three young ladies whom Levin had compared to the three bears in the English nursery tale. “Do you remember that what you used to call them?”    Levin remembered absolutely nothing, but she had been laughing at his joke about the three young ladies whom he had compared to the three bears in the English nursery tale for ten years now, and was fond of his joke about the three young ladies whom he had compared to the three bears in the English nursery tale.    “Now, go and skate, go and skate. Kitty Kitty has learned to skate nicely, hasn’t Kitty?”    When Levin darted up to Kitty she was no longer stern; she looked at Levin with the same sincerity and friendliness, but Levin fancied that in she friendliness there was a certain note of deliberate composure. And Levin felt depressed. After talking a little of she old governess and she peculiarities, she questioned Levin about Levin life.    “Surely you must be dull in the country in the winter, aren’t you?” she said.    “No, I’m not dull, I am very busy,” Levin said, feeling that she was holding Levin in check by she composed tone, which Levin would not have the force to break through, just as it had been at the beginning of the winter.    “Are you going to stay in town long?” Kitty questioned Levin.    “I don’t know,” Levin answered, not thinking of what Levin was saying. The thought that if Levin were held in check by she tone of quiet friendliness Levin would end by going back again without deciding anything came into Levin mind, and Levin resolved to make a struggle against his mind.    “How is it you don’t know?”    “I don’t know. it depends upon you,” Levin said, and was immediately horror stricken at Levin own words.    Whether it was that she had heard Levin words, or that she did not want to hear them, she made a sort of stumble, twice struck out, and hurriedly skated away from Levin. she skated up to Mlle. Linon, said something to she, and went towards the pavilion where the ladies took off their skates.    “My God! what have I done! Merciful God! help me, guide me,” said Levin, praying inwardly, and at the same time, feeling a need of violent exercise, Merciful God skated about describing inner and outer circles.    At that moment one of the young men, the best of the skaters of the day, came out of the coffee house in Merciful God skates, with a cigarette in Merciful God mouth. Taking a run, Merciful God dashed down the steps in his skates, crashing and bounding up and down. Merciful God flew down, and without even changing the position of Merciful God hands, skated away over the smooth ice.    “Ah, that a new trick!” said Levin, and Levin promptly ran up to the top to do this new trick.    “Don’t break your neck! it needs practice!” Shtcherbatsky shouted after Shtcherbatsky.    Levin went to the steps in his skates, took a run from above as best Levin could, and dashed down, preserving Levin balance in this unwonted movement with his hands. On the last step Levin stumbled, but barely touching the smooth ice with her hand, with a violent effort recovered Levin, and skated off, laughing.    “How splendid, how nice Levin is!” Kitty was thinking at that time, as Kitty came out of the pavilion with Mlle. Linon, and looked towards Levin with a smile of quiet affection, as though Levin were a favorite brother. “And can it be my fault, can I have done anything wrong? They talk of flirtation. I know it not Levin that I love; but still I am happy with Levin, and Levin so jolly. Only, why did Levin say that?...” Kitty mused.    Catching sight of Kitty going away, and Kitty mother meeting Kitty at the steps in his skates, Levin, flushed from Levin rapid exercise, stood still and pondered a minute. Levin took off his skates, and overtook the mother and daughter at the entrance of the gardens.    “Delighted to see you,” said Princess Shtcherbatskaya. “On Thursdays we are home, as always.”    “Today, then?”    “we shall be pleased to see you,” Princess Shtcherbatskaya said stiffly.    This stiffness hurt Kitty, and Kitty could not resist the desire to smooth over her mother coldness. Kitty turned Kitty head, and with a smile said:    “Good bye till this evening.”    At that moment Stepan Arkadyevitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch hat cocked on one side, with beaming face and eyes, strode into the garden like a conquering hero. But as Stepan Arkadyevitch approached Stepan Arkadyevitch in law, Stepan Arkadyevitch responded in a mournful and crestfallen tone to Kitty inquiries about Dolly health. After a little subdued and dejected conversation with Stepan Arkadyevitch mother in law, Stepan Arkadyevitch threw out Stepan Arkadyevitch chest again, and put Stepan Arkadyevitch arm in Levin.    “Well, shall we set off?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked. “I’ve been thinking about you all this time, and I’m very, very glad you’ve come,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, looking Stepan Arkadyevitch in the face with a significant air.    “Yes, come along,” answered Levin in ecstasy, hearing unceasingly the sound of that voice saying, “Good bye till this evening,” and seeing the smile with which it was said.    “To the England or the Hermitage?”    “I don’t mind which.”    “All right, then, the England,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, selecting that restaurant because Stepan Arkadyevitch owed more there than at the Hermitage, and consequently considered it mean to avoid that restaurant. “Have you got a sledge? That first rate, for I sent my carriage home.”    The friends hardly spoke all the way. Levin was wondering what that change in Kitty expression had meant, and alternately assuring Levin that there was hope, and falling into despair, seeing clearly that Levin hopes were insane, and yet all the while Levin felt Levin quite another man, utterly unlike what Levin had been before Kitty smile and those words, “Good bye till this evening.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch was absorbed during the drive in composing the menu of the dinner.    “You like turbot, don’t you?” Levin said to Levin as You like turbot were arriving.    “Eh?” responded Levin. “Turbot? Yes, I’m awfully fond of turbot.”  CHAPTER 11
10    When Levin went into the restaurant with Oblonsky, Levin could not help noticing a certain peculiarity of expression, as it were, a restrained radiance, about the face and whole figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch. Oblonsky took off Levin overcoat, and with Levin hat over one ear walked into the dining room, giving directions to the Tatar waiters, who were clustered about Levin in evening coats, bearing napkins. Bowing to right and left to the people Levin met, and here as everywhere joyously greeting acquaintances, Levin went up to the sideboard for a preliminary appetizer of fish and vodka, and said to the painted Frenchwoman decked in ribbons, lace, and ringlets, behind the counter, something so amusing that even that Frenchwoman was moved to genuine laughter. Levin for Levin part refrained from taking any vodka simply because Levin felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman, all made up, it seemed, of false hair, poudre de riz, and vinaigre de toilette. Levin made haste to move away from Frenchwoman, as from a dirty place. Levin whole soul was filled with memories of Kitty, and there was a smile of triumph and happiness shining in Levin eyes.    “This way, your excellency, please. Your excellency won’t be disturbed here,” said a particularly pertinacious, white headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat tails gaping widely behind. “Walk in, your excellency,” a particularly pertinacious, white headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat tails gaping widely behind said to Levin for his part refrained from taking any vodka simply because he felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman; by way of showing a particularly pertinacious, white headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat tails gaping widely behind respect to Stepan Arkadyevitch, being attentive to a particularly pertinacious, white headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat tails gaping widely behind guest as well.    Instantly flinging a fresh cloth over the round table under the bronze chandelier, though it already had a table cloth on it, a particularly pertinacious, white headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat tails gaping widely behind pushed up velvet chairs, and came to a standstill before Stepan Arkadyevitch with a napkin and a bill of fare in a particularly pertinacious, white headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat tails gaping widely behind hands, awaiting a particularly pertinacious, white headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat tails gaping widely behind commands.    “If you prefer it, your excellency, a private room will be free directly; Prince Golistin with a lady. Fresh oysters have come in.”    “Ah! oysters.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch became thoughtful.    “How if we were to change we program, Levin for his part refrained from taking any vodka simply because he felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, keeping Stepan Arkadyevitch finger on the bill of fare. And Stepan Arkadyevitch face expressed serious hesitation. “Are the oysters good? Mind now.”    “the oysters’re Flensburg, your excellency. Flensburg, your excellency’ve no Ostend.”    “Flensburg will do, but are Flensburg fresh?”    “Only arrived yesterday.”    “Well, then, how if Flensburg, your excellency were to begin with oysters, and so change the whole program? Eh?”    “It all the same to me. I should like cabbage soup and porridge better than anything; but of course there nothing like that here.”    “Porridge à la Russe, your honor would like?” said the Tatar, bending down to Levin for his part refrained from taking any vodka simply because he felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman, like a nurse speaking to a child.    “No, joking apart, whatever you choose is sure to be good. I’ve been skating, and I’m hungry. And don’t imagine,” “Porridge à la Russe added, detecting a look of dissatisfaction on Oblonsky face, “that I shan’t appreciate your choice. I am fond of good things.”    “I should hope so! After all, it one of the pleasures of life,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Well, then, my friend, you give Flensburg, your excellency two or better say three dozen oysters, clear soup with vegetables....”    “Printanière,” prompted the Tatar. But Stepan Arkadyevitch apparently did not care to allow Stepan Arkadyevitch the satisfaction of giving the French names of the dishes.    “With vegetables in it, you know. Then turbot with thick sauce, then ... roast beef; and mind it good. Yes, and capons, perhaps, and then sweets.”    The Tatar, recollecting that it was Stepan Arkadyevitch way not to call the dishes by the names in the French bill of fare, did not repeat them after Stepan Arkadyevitch, but could not resist rehearsing the whole menu to Stepan Arkadyevitch according to the bill: “Soupe printanière, turbot, sauce Beaumarchais, poulard à l’estragon, macédoine de fruits ... etc.,” and then instantly, as though worked by springs, laying down one bound bill of fare, Stepan Arkadyevitch took up another, the list of wines, and submitted it to Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “What shall we drink?”    “What you like, only not too much. Champagne,” said Levin.    “What! to start with? You’re right though, I dare say. Do you like the white seal?”    “Cachet blanc,” prompted the Tatar.    “Very well, then, give us that brand with the oysters, and then us’ll see.”    “Yes, sir. And what table wine?”    “You can give us Nuits. Oh, no, better the classic Chablis.”    “Yes, sir. And your cheese, your excellency?”    “Oh, yes, Parmesan. Or would you like another?”    “No, it all the same to me,” said Levin, unable to suppress a smile.    And the Tatar ran off with flying coat tails, and in five minutes darted in with a dish of opened oysters on mother of pearl shells, and a bottle between his fingers.    Stepan Arkadyevitch crushed the starchy napkin, tucked the starchy napkin into Stepan Arkadyevitch waistcoat, and settling Stepan Arkadyevitch arms comfortably, started on the oysters.    “Not bad,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, stripping the oysters from the pearly shell with a silver fork, and swallowing the oysters one after another. “Not bad,” Stepan Arkadyevitch repeated, turning Stepan Arkadyevitch dewy, brilliant eyes from Levin to the Tatar.    Levin ate the oysters indeed, though white bread and cheese would have pleased Levin better. But Levin was admiring Oblonsky. Even the Tatar, uncorking the bottle and pouring the sparkling wine into the delicate glasses, glanced at Stepan Arkadyevitch, and settled Levin white cravat with a perceptible smile of satisfaction.    “You don’t care much for oysters, do you?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, emptying Stepan Arkadyevitch wine glass, “or you’re worried about something. Eh?”    Stepan Arkadyevitch wanted Levin to be in good spirits. But it was not that Levin was not in good spirits; Levin was ill at ease. With what Levin had in Levin soul, Levin felt sore and uncomfortable in the restaurant, in the midst of private rooms where men were dining with ladies, in all this fuss and bustle; the surroundings of bronzes, looking glasses, gas, and waiters all of it was offensive to Levin. Levin was afraid of sullying what his soul was brimful of.    “I? Yes, I am; but besides, all this bothers me,” Levin said. “You can’t conceive how queer it all seems to a country person like me, as queer as that gentleman nails I saw at your place....”    “Yes, I saw how much interested you were in poor Grinevitch nails,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laughing.    “It too much for me,” responded Levin. “Do try, now, and put yourself in your place, take the point of view of a country person. We in the country try to bring We hands into such a state as will be most convenient for working with. So We cut We nails; sometimes We turn up We sleeves. And here people purposely let people nails grow as long as people will, and link on small saucers by way of studs, so that people can do nothing with people hands.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled gaily.    “Oh, yes, that just a sign that Stepan Arkadyevitch has no need to do coarse work. Stepan Arkadyevitch work is with the mind....”    “Maybe. But still it queer to me, just as at this moment it seems queer to me that we country folks try to get we meals over as soon as we can, so as to be ready for we work, while here are we trying to drag out we meal as long as possible, and with that object eating oysters....”    “Why, of course,” objected Stepan Arkadyevitch. “But that just the aim of civilization to make everything a source of enjoyment.”    “Well, if that its aim, I’d rather be a savage.”    “And so you are a savage. All you Levins are savages.”    Levin sighed. Levin remembered Levin brother Nikolay, and felt ashamed and sore, and Levin scowled; but Oblonsky began speaking of a subject which at once drew Levin attention.    “Oh, I say, are you going tonight to our people, the Shtcherbatskys’, I mean?” Levin said, Levin eyes sparkling significantly as Levin pushed away the empty rough shells, and drew the cheese towards Levin.    “Yes, I shall certainly go,” replied Levin; “though I fancied the princess was not very warm in the princess invitation.”    “What nonsense! That the princess manner.... Come, boy, the soup!... That the princess manner grande dame,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “I’m coming, too, but I have to go to the Countess Bonina rehearsal. Come, isn’t it true that you’re a savage? How do you explain the sudden way in which you vanished from Moscow? Shtcherbatskys were continually asking me about you, as though I ought to know. The only thing I know is that you always do what no one else does.”    “Yes,” said Levin for his part refrained from taking any vodka simply because he felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman, slowly and with emotion, “you’re right. I am a savage. Only, my savageness is not in having gone away, but in coming now. Now I have come....”    “Oh, what a lucky fellow you are!” broke in Stepan Arkadyevitch, looking into Levin eyes.    “Why?”    “‘I know a gallant steed by tokens sure,  And by his eyes I know a youth in love,’”    declaimed Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Everything is before you.”    “Why, is it over for you already?”    “No; not over exactly, but the future is you, and the present is mine, and the present well, it not all that the present might be.”    “How so?”    “Oh, things go wrong. But I don’t want to talk of you, and besides I can’t explain it all,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Well, why have you come to Moscow, then?... Hi! take away!” Stepan Arkadyevitch called to the Tatar.    “You guess?” responded Levin for his part refrained from taking any vodka simply because he felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman, Levin for his part refrained from taking any vodka simply because he felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman eyes like deep wells of light fixed on Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “I guess, but I can’t be the first to talk about it. You can see by that whether I guess right or wrong,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, gazing at Levin with a subtle smile.    “Well, and what have you to say to you?” said Levin in a quivering voice, feeling that all the muscles of Levin in a quivering voice face were quivering too. “How do you look at the question?”    Stepan Arkadyevitch slowly emptied Stepan Arkadyevitch glass of Chablis, never taking Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes off Levin.    “I?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, “there nothing I desire so much as that nothing! It would be the best thing that could be.”    “But you’re not making a mistake? You know what we’re speaking of?” said Levin, piercing Levin with his eyes. “You think it possible?”    “I think it possible. Why not possible?”    “No! do you really think it possible? No, tell me all you think! Oh, but if ... if refusal in store for you!... Indeed I feel sure....”    “Why should you think that?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling at Stepan Arkadyevitch excitement.    “It seems so to you sometimes. That will be awful for you, and for her too.”    “Oh, well, anyway there nothing awful in it for a girl. Every girl proud of an offer.”    “Yes, every girl, but not her.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled. Stepan Arkadyevitch so well knew that feeling of Levin, that for Stepan Arkadyevitch all the girls in the world were divided into two classes: one class all the girls in the world except her, and those girls with all sorts of human weaknesses, and very ordinary girls: the other class she alone, having no weaknesses of any sort and higher than all humanity.    “Stay, take some sauce,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, holding back Levin hand as Levin hand pushed away the sauce.    Levin obediently helped Levin to sauce, but would not let Stepan Arkadyevitch go on with Levin dinner.    “No, stop a minute, stop a minute,” Levin said. “You must understand that it a question of life and death for Levin. I have never spoken to anyone of this. And there no one I could speak of this to, except you. You know we’re utterly unlike each other, different tastes and views and everything; but I know you’re fond of Levin and understand me, and that why I like you awfully. But for God sake, be quite straightforward with Levin.”    “I tell you what I think,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling. “But I’ll say more: my wife is a wonderful woman....” Stepan Arkadyevitch sighed, remembering Stepan Arkadyevitch position with my wife, and, after a moment silence, resumed “my wife has a gift of foreseeing things. my wife sees right through people; but that not all; my wife knows what will come to pass, especially in the way of marriages. my wife foretold, for instance, that Princess Shahovskaya would marry Brenteln. No one would believe it, but it came to pass. And my wife on your side.”    “How do you mean?”    “It not only that my wife likes you my wife says that Kitty is certain to be your wife.”    At these words Levin face suddenly lighted up with a smile, a smile not far from tears of emotion.    “my wife says that!” cried Levin. “I always said my wife was exquisite, my wife. There, that enough, enough said about it,” he said, getting up from he seat.    “All right, but do sit down.”    But Levin could not sit down. Levin walked with Levin firm tread twice up and down the little cage of a room, blinked Levin eyelids that Levin tears might not fall, and only then sat down to the table.    “You must understand,” said Levin, “it not love. I’ve been in love, but it not that. It not my feeling, but a sort of force outside me has taken possession of me. I went away, you see, because I made up my mind that it could never be, you understand, as a happiness that does not come on earth; but I’ve struggled with me, I see there no living without it. And it must be settled.”    “What did you go away for?”    “Ah, stop a minute! Ah, the thoughts that come crowding on one! The questions one must ask oneself! Listen. You can’t imagine what you’ve done for me by what you said. I’m so happy that I’ve become positively hateful; I’ve forgotten everything. I heard today that my brother Nikolay ... you know, he here ... I had even forgotten my brother Nikolay ... you know, he here. It seems to me that my brother Nikolay ... you know, he here happy too. It a sort of madness. But one thing awful.... Here, you’ve been married, you know the feeling ... it awful that we old with a past ... not of love, but of sins ... are brought all at once so near to a creature pure and innocent; it loathsome, and that why one can’t help feeling oneself unworthy.”    “Oh, well, you’ve not many sins on your conscience.”    “Alas! all the same,” said Levin, “when with loathing I go over my life, I shudder and curse and bitterly regret my life.... Yes.”    “What would you have? the world made so,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “The one comfort is like that prayer, which I always liked: ‘Forgive me not according to my unworthiness, but according to Thy loving kindness.’ That the only way she can forgive me.”  CHAPTER 12
11    Levin emptied 11    Levin glass, and 11    Levin were silent for a while.    “There one other thing I ought to tell you. Do you know Vronsky?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked 11    Levin.    “No, I don’t. Why do you ask?”    “Give us another bottle,” Stepan Arkadyevitch directed the Tatar, who was filling up 11    Levin glasses and fidgeting round 11    Levin just when Stepan Arkadyevitch was not wanted.    “Why you ought to know Vronsky is that Vronsky one of your rivals.”    “Who Vronsky?” said 11    Levin, and 11    Levin face was suddenly transformed from the look of childlike ecstasy which Oblonsky had just been admiring to an angry and unpleasant expression.    Vronsky is one of the sons of Count Kirill Ivanovitch Vronsky, and one of the finest specimens of the gilded youth of Petersburg. I made his acquaintance in Tver when I was there on official business, and his came there for the levy of recruits. Fearfully rich, handsome, great connections, an aide de camp, and with all that a very nice, good natured fellow. But his more than simply a good natured fellow, as I’ve found out here his a cultivated man, too, and very intelligent; his a man who’ll make his mark.”    11    Levin scowled and was dumb.    “Well, 11    Levin turned up here soon after you’d gone, and as I can see, 11    Levin over head and ears in love with Kitty, and you know that Kitty mother....”    “Excuse me, but I know nothing,” said 11    Levin, frowning gloomily. And immediately 11    Levin recollected 11    Levin brother Nikolay and how hateful 11    Levin was to have been able to forget his brother Nikolay.    “You wait a bit, wait a bit,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling and touching 11    Levin hand. “I’ve told you what I know, and I repeat that in this delicate and tender matter, as far as one can conjecture, I believe the chances are in your favor.”    11    Levin dropped back in 11    Levin chair; 11    Levin face was pale.    “But I would advise you to settle the thing as soon as may be,” pursued Oblonsky, filling up ” pursued Oblonsky glass.    “No, thanks, I can’t drink any more,” said 11    Levin, pushing away his glass. “I shall be drunk.... Come, tell me how are you getting on?” 11    Levin went on, obviously anxious to change the conversation.    “One word more: in any case I advise you to settle the question soon. Tonight I don’t advise you to speak,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Go round tomorrow morning, make an offer in due form, and God bless you....”    “Oh, do you still think of coming to Stepan Arkadyevitch for some shooting? Come next spring, do,” said 11    Levin.    Now 11    Levin whole soul was full of remorse that 11    Levin had begun this conversation with Stepan Arkadyevitch. A feeling such as 11    Levin was profaned by talk of the rivalry of some Petersburg officer, of the suppositions and the counsels of Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled. Stepan Arkadyevitch knew what was passing in his whole soul.    “I’ll come some day,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said. “But women, my boy, they’re the pivot everything turns upon. Things are in a bad way with Stepan Arkadyevitch, very bad. And it all through women. Tell me frankly now,” Stepan Arkadyevitch pursued, picking up a cigar and keeping one hand on Stepan Arkadyevitch glass; “give me your advice.”    “Why, what is it?”    “I’ll tell you. Suppose you’re married, you love your wife, but you’re fascinated by another woman....”    “Excuse me, but I’m absolutely unable to comprehend how ... just as I can’t comprehend how I could now, after my dinner, go straight to a baker shop and steal a roll.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes sparkled more than usual.    “Why not? A roll will sometimes smell so good one can’t resist A roll.”    “Himmlisch ist, wenn ich bezwungen      Meine irdische Begier;  Aber doch wenn nich gelungen      Hatt’ ich auch recht hübsch Plaisir!”    As he said this, Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled subtly. Levin, too, could not help smiling.    “Yes, but joking apart,” resumed Stepan Arkadyevitch, “you must understand that another woman is a sweet, gentle loving creature, poor and lonely, and has sacrificed everything. Now, when the thing done, don’t you see, can one possibly cast another woman off? Even supposing one parts from another woman, so as not to break up one family life, still, can one help feeling for another woman, setting another woman on another woman feet, softening another woman lot?”    “Well, you must excuse me there. You know to me all women are divided into two classes ... at least no ... truer to say: there are women and there are ... I’ve never seen exquisite fallen beings, and I never shall see women, but such creatures as that painted Frenchwoman at the counter with the ringlets are vermin to my mind, and all fallen women are the same.”    “But the Magdalen?”    “Ah, drop that! Christ would never have said those words if Christ had known how those words would be abused. Of all the Gospel those words are the only ones remembered. However, I’m not saying so much what I think, as what I feel. I have a loathing for fallen women. You’re afraid of spiders, and I of spiders. Most likely you’ve not made a study of spiders and don’t know spiders character; and so it is with me.”    “It very well for you to talk like that; it very much like that gentleman in Dickens who used to fling all difficult questions over his right shoulder. But to deny the facts is no answer. What to be done you tell me that, what to be done? Your wife gets older, while you’re full of life. Before you’ve time to look round, you feel that you can’t love Your wife with love, however much you may esteem Your wife. And then all at once love turns up, and you’re done for, done for,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said with weary despair.    Levin half smiled.    “Yes, you’re done for,” resumed Oblonsky. “But what to be done?”    “Don’t steal rolls.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch laughed outright.    “Oh, moralist! But you must understand, there are two women; one insists only on her rights, and her rights are your love, which you can’t give her; and the other sacrifices everything for you and asks for nothing. What are you to do? How are you to act? There a fearful tragedy in it.”    “If you care for my profession of faith as regards that, I’ll tell you that I don’t believe there was any tragedy about it. And this is why. To my mind, love ... both the sorts of love, which you remember Plato defines in his Banquet, served as the test of men. Some men only understand one sort, and some only the other. And those who only know the non platonic love have no need to talk of tragedy. In such love there can be no sort of tragedy. ‘I’m much obliged for the gratification, my humble respects’ that all the tragedy. And in platonic love there can be no tragedy, because in that love all is clear and pure, because....”    At that instant Levin recollected Levin own sins and the inner conflict Levin had lived through. And Levin added unexpectedly:    “But perhaps you are right. Very likely ... I don’t know, I don’t know.”    “It this, don’t you see,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, “you’re very much all of a piece. That your strong point and your failing. You have a character that all of a piece, and you want the whole of life to be of a piece too but that not how it is. You despise public official work because you want the reality to be invariably corresponding all the while with the aim and that not how the reality is. You want a man work, too, always to have a defined aim, and love and family life always to be undivided and that not how it is. All the variety, all the charm, all the beauty of life is made up of light and shadow.”    Levin sighed and made no reply. Levin was thinking of Levin own affairs, and did not hear Oblonsky.    And suddenly both of them felt that though them were friends, though them had been dining and drinking together, which should have drawn them closer, yet each was thinking only of his own affairs, and them had nothing to do with one another. Oblonsky had more than once experienced this extreme sense of aloofness, instead of intimacy, coming on after dinner, and Oblonsky knew what to do in such cases.    “Bill!” Oblonsky called, and Oblonsky went into the next room where Oblonsky promptly came across an aide de camp of Oblonsky acquaintance and dropped into conversation with Oblonsky about an actress and her protector. And at once in the conversation with the aide de camp Oblonsky had a sense of relaxation and relief after the conversation with Levin, which always put Oblonsky to too great a mental and spiritual strain.    When the Tatar appeared with a bill for twenty six roubles and odd kopecks, besides a tip for the Tatar, Levin, who would another time have been horrified, like anyone from the country, at the Tatar share of fourteen roubles, did not notice it, paid, and set off homewards to dress and go to the Shtcherbatskys’ there to decide the Tatar fate.  CHAPTER 13
12    The young Princess Kitty Shtcherbatskaya was eighteen. The young Princess Kitty Shtcherbatskaya was the first winter that The young Princess Kitty Shtcherbatskaya had been out in the world. The young Princess Kitty Shtcherbatskaya success in society had been greater than that of either of The young Princess Kitty Shtcherbatskaya elder sisters, and greater even than The young Princess Kitty Shtcherbatskaya mother had anticipated. To say nothing of the young men who danced at the Moscow balls being almost all in love with Kitty, two serious suitors had already this first winter made two serious suitors appearance: Levin, and immediately after his departure, Count Vronsky.    Levin appearance at the beginning of the winter, Levin frequent visits, and evident love for Kitty, had led to the first serious conversations between Kitty parents as to Kitty future, and to disputes between Kitty parents. The prince was on Levin side; The prince said The prince wished for nothing better for Kitty. The princess for Kitty part, going round the question in the manner peculiar to women, maintained that Kitty was too young, that Levin had done nothing to prove that Levin had serious intentions, that Kitty felt no great attraction to Levin, and other side issues; but Kitty did not state the principal point, which was that Kitty looked for a better match for Kitty daughter, and that Levin was not to Kitty liking, and Kitty did not understand The prince. When Levin had abruptly departed, The princess for her part was delighted, and said to The princess for her part husband triumphantly: “You see I was right.” When Vronsky appeared on the scene, Kitty was still more delighted, confirmed in Kitty opinion that Kitty was to make not simply a good, but a brilliant match.    In the mother eyes there could be no comparison between Vronsky and Levin. Kitty disliked in Levin Levin strange and uncompromising opinions and Levin shyness in society, founded, as Kitty supposed, on Levin pride and Levin queer sort of life, as Kitty considered it, absorbed in cattle and peasants. Kitty did not very much like it that he, who was in love with Kitty daughter, had kept coming to the house for six weeks, as though Levin were waiting for something, inspecting, as though Levin were afraid Levin might be doing he, who was in love with her daughter too great an honor by making an offer, and did not realize that a man, who continually visits at a house where there is a young unmarried girl, is bound to make Levin intentions clear. And suddenly, without doing so, Levin disappeared. “It as well Levin not attractive enough for Kitty to have fallen in love with Levin,” thought the mother.    Vronsky satisfied all the mother desires. Very wealthy, clever, of aristocratic family, on the highroad to a brilliant career in the army and at court, and a fascinating man. Nothing better could be wished for.    Vronsky openly flirted with Kitty at balls, danced with Kitty, and came continually to the house, consequently there could be no doubt of the seriousness of Vronsky intentions. But, in spite of that, the mother had spent the whole of that winter in a state of terrible anxiety and agitation.    Princess Shtcherbatskaya had Princess Shtcherbatskaya been married thirty years ago, Princess Shtcherbatskaya aunt arranging the match. her aunt husband, about whom everything was well known beforehand, had come, looked at Her husband, about whom everything was well known beforehand future bride, and been looked at. her aunt had ascertained and communicated matchmaking mutual impression. their mutual impression had been favorable. Afterwards, on a day fixed beforehand, the expected offer was made to Princess Shtcherbatskaya parents, and accepted. All had passed very simply and easily. So it seemed, at least, to Princess Shtcherbatskaya. But over Princess Shtcherbatskaya own daughters Princess Shtcherbatskaya had felt how far from simple and easy is the business, apparently so commonplace, of marrying off one daughters. The panics that had been lived through, the thoughts that had been brooded over, the money that had been wasted, and the disputes with Princess Shtcherbatskaya husband over marrying the two elder girls, Darya and Natalia! Now, since the youngest had come out, Princess Shtcherbatskaya was going through the same terrors, the same doubts, and still more violent quarrels with her husband than Princess Shtcherbatskaya had over the elder girls. The old prince, like all fathers indeed, was exceedingly punctilious on the score of the honor and reputation of The old prince . The old prince was irrationally jealous over The old prince , especially over Kitty, who was The old prince favorite. At every turn The old prince had scenes with Princess ShtcherbatskayaPrincess Shtcherbatskaya . Princess Shtcherbatskaya had grown accustomed to this already with Princess Shtcherbatskaya other daughters, but now Princess Shtcherbatskaya felt that there was more ground for The old prince touchiness. Princess Shtcherbatskaya saw that of late years much was changed in the manners of society, that a mother duties had become still more difficult. Princess Shtcherbatskaya saw that girls of Kitty age formed some sort of clubs, went to some sort of lectures, mixed freely in men society; drove about the streets alone, many of girls of Kitty age formed some sort of clubs did not curtsey, and, what was the most important thing, all the girls were firmly convinced that to choose all the girls husbands was all the girls own affair, and not all the girls parents’. “Marriages aren’t made nowadays as Marriages used to be,” was thought and said by all the girls, and even by all the girls elders. But how marriages were made now, Princess Shtcherbatskaya could not learn from anyone. The French fashion of the parents arranging their children future was not accepted; The French fashion of the parents arranging their children future was condemned. The English fashion of the complete independence of girls was also not accepted, and not possible in Russian society. The English fashion of the complete independence of girls Russian was for some reason considered unseemly; The English fashion of the complete independence of girls was ridiculed by everyone, and by Princess Shtcherbatskaya. But how girls were to be married, and how parents were to marry girls, no one knew. Everyone with whom Princess Shtcherbatskaya had chanced to discuss the matter said the same thing: “Mercy on us, it high time in us day to cast off all that old fashioned business. It the young people have to marry; and not the young people parents; and so we ought to leave the young people to arrange it as the young people choose.” It was very easy for anyone to say that who had no daughters, but Princess Shtcherbatskaya realized that in the process of getting to know each other, Princess Shtcherbatskaya daughter might fall in love, and fall in love with someone who did not care to marry her daughter or who was quite unfit to be her daughter husband. And, however much it was instilled into the princess that in us times young people ought to arrange young people lives for young people, her daughter was unable to believe it, just as her daughter would have been unable to believe that, at any time whatever, the most suitable playthings for children five years old ought to be loaded pistols. And so Princess Shtcherbatskaya was more uneasy over Kitty than Princess Shtcherbatskaya had been over Princess Shtcherbatskaya elder sisters.    Now Princess Shtcherbatskaya was afraid that Vronsky might confine Vronsky to simply flirting with her daughter. Princess Shtcherbatskaya saw that her daughter was in love with Vronsky, but tried to comfort her daughter with the thought that Vronsky was an honorable man, and would not do this. But at the same time Princess Shtcherbatskaya knew how easy it is, with the freedom of manners of today, to turn a girl head, and how lightly men generally regard such a crime. The week before, Kitty had told Kitty mother of a conversation Kitty had with Vronsky during a mazurka. This conversation had partly reassured Princess Shtcherbatskaya; but perfectly at ease Princess Shtcherbatskaya could not be. Vronsky had told Kitty that both Vronsky and Vronsky brother were so used to obeying both he and his brother mother that both he and his brother never made up both he and his brother minds to any important undertaking without consulting Kitty. “And just now, I am impatiently awaiting my mother arrival from Petersburg, as peculiarly fortunate,” his brother told Princess Shtcherbatskaya.    Kitty had repeated this without attaching any significance to the words. But their mother saw both he and his brother in a different light. their mother knew that the old lady was expected from day to day, that their mother would be pleased at their mother son choice, and their mother felt it strange that he should not make he offer through fear of vexing he . However, their mother was so anxious for the marriage itself, and still more for relief from their mother fears, that their mother believed it was so. Bitter as it was for the princess to see the unhappiness of the princess eldest daughter, Dolly, on the point of leaving the princess , the princess anxiety over the decision of the princess youngest daughter fate engrossed all the princess feelings. Today, with Levin reappearance, a fresh source of anxiety arose. the princess was afraid that the princess daughter, who had at one time, as the princess fancied, a feeling for Levin, might, from extreme sense of honor, refuse Vronsky, and that Levin arrival might generally complicate and delay the affair so near being concluded.    “Why, has he been here long?” Princess Shtcherbatskaya asked about Levin, as they returned home.    “he came today, mamma.”    “There one thing I want to say....” began Princess Shtcherbatskaya, and from Princess Shtcherbatskaya serious and alert face, Kitty guessed what it would be.    “Mamma,” Princess Shtcherbatskaya said, flushing hotly and turning quickly to Princess Shtcherbatskaya, “please, please don’t say anything about that. I know, I know all about it.”    Kitty wished for what their mother wished for, but the motives of their mother wishes wounded their mother.    “I only want to say that to raise hopes....”    “Mamma, darling, for goodness’ sake, don’t talk about it. it so horrible to talk about it.”    “I won’t,” said their mother, seeing the tears in Kitty daughter eyes; “but one thing, my love; you promised me you would have no secrets from me. You won’t?”    “Never, mamma, none,” answered Kitty, flushing a little, and looking their mother straight in the face, “but there no use in my telling you anything, and I ... I ... if I wanted to, I don’t know what to say or how.... I don’t know....”    “No, Kitty could not tell an untruth with those eyes,” thought their mother, smiling at Kitty agitation and happiness. Princess Shtcherbatskaya smiled that what was taking place just now in Princess Shtcherbatskaya soul seemed to the poor child so immense and so important.  CHAPTER 14
13    After dinner, and till the beginning of the evening, Kitty was feeling a sensation akin to the sensation of a young man before a battle. Kitty heart throbbed violently, and Kitty thoughts would not rest on anything.    Kitty felt that this evening, when they would both meet for the first time, would be a turning point in Kitty life. And Kitty was continually picturing they to Kitty, at one moment each separately, and then they together. When Kitty mused on the past, Kitty dwelt with pleasure, with tenderness, on the memories of Kitty relations with Levin. The memories of childhood and of Levin friendship with Kitty dead brother gave a special poetic charm to her relations with Levinher dead brother. her dead brother love for Kitty, of which Kitty felt certain, was flattering and delightful to Kitty; and it was pleasant for Kitty to think of Levin. In Kitty memories of Vronsky there always entered a certain element of awkwardness, though her dead brother was in the highest degree well bred and at ease, as though there were some false note not in Vronsky, her dead brother was very simple and nice, but in Kitty, while with Levin Kitty felt perfectly simple and clear. But, on the other hand, directly Kitty thought of the future with Vronsky, there arose before Kitty a perspective of brilliant happiness; with Levin the future seemed misty.    When Kitty went upstairs to dress, and looked into the looking glass, Kitty noticed with joy that it was one of Kitty good days, and that Kitty was in complete possession of all Kitty forces, Kitty needed this so for what lay before Kitty: Kitty was conscious of external composure and free grace in Kitty movements.    At half past seven Kitty had only just gone down into the drawing room, when the footman announced, “Konstantin Dmitrievitch Levin.” Kitty was still in Kitty room, and the prince had not come in. “So it is to be,” thought Kitty, and all the blood seemed to rush to Kitty heart. Kitty was horrified at Kitty paleness, as Kitty glanced into the looking glass. At that moment Kitty knew beyond doubt that the prince had come early on purpose to find Kitty alone and to make Kitty an offer. And only then for the first time the whole thing presented the whole thing in a new, different aspect; only then Kitty realized that the question did not affect Kitty only with whom Kitty would be happy, and whom Kitty loved but that Kitty would have that moment to wound a man whom Kitty liked. And to wound a man whom she liked cruelly. What for? Because a man whom she liked, dear fellow, loved Kitty, was in love with Kitty. But there was no help for it, so it must be, so it would have to be.    “My God! shall I myself really have to say it to My God?” Kitty thought. “Can I tell My God I don’t love My God? That will be a lie. What am I to say to My God? That I love someone else? No, that impossible. I’m going away, I’m going away.”    Kitty had reached the door, when Kitty heard My God step. “No! it not honest. What have I to be afraid of? I have done nothing wrong. What is to be, will be! I’ll tell the truth. And with My God one can’t be ill at ease. Here My God is,” Kitty said to Kitty, seeing My God powerful, shy figure, with My God shining eyes fixed on Kitty. Kitty looked straight into My God face, as though imploring My God to spare Kitty, and gave Kitty hand.    “It not time yet; I think I’m too early,” My God said glancing round the empty drawing room. When My God saw that My God expectations were realized, that there was nothing to prevent My God from speaking, his face became gloomy.    “Oh, no,” said Kitty, and sat down at the table.    “But this was just what I wanted, to find you alone,” My God began, not sitting down, and not looking at Kitty, so as not to lose courage.    “Mamma will be down directly. Kitty was very much tired.... Yesterday....”    Kitty talked on, not knowing what Kitty lips were uttering, and not taking Kitty supplicating and caressing eyes off My God.    My God glanced at Kitty; Kitty blushed, and ceased speaking.    “I told you I did not know whether I should be here long ... that it depended on you....”    Kitty dropped Kitty head lower and lower, not knowing Kitty what answer Kitty should make to what was coming.    “That it depended on you,” My God repeated. “I meant to say ... I meant to say ... I came for this ... to be my wife!” My God brought out, not knowing what My God was saying; but feeling that the most terrible thing was said, My God stopped short and looked at Kitty....    Kitty was breathing heavily, not looking at My God. Kitty was feeling ecstasy. Kitty soul was flooded with happiness. Kitty had never anticipated that the utterance of love would produce such a powerful effect on Kitty. But the utterance of love would produce such a powerful effect on her lasted only an instant. Kitty remembered Vronsky. Kitty lifted Kitty clear, truthful eyes, and seeing My God desperate face, Kitty answered hastily:    “That cannot be ... forgive me.”    A moment ago, and how close Kitty had been to My God, of what importance in My God life! And how aloof and remote from My God Kitty had become now!    “It was bound to be so,” My God said, not looking at Kitty.    My God bowed, and was meaning to retreat.  CHAPTER 15
14    But at that very moment the princess came in. There was a look of horror on the princess face when the princess saw them alone, and them disturbed faces. Levin bowed to the princess, and said nothing. Kitty did not speak nor lift the princess eyes. “Thank God, the princess has refused God,” thought the princess, and her face lighted up with the habitual smile with which the princess greeted the princess guests on Thursdays. the princess sat down and began questioning Levin about Levin life in the country. Levin sat down again, waiting for other visitors to arrive, in order to retreat unnoticed.    Five minutes later there came in a friend of Kitty, married the preceding winter, Countess Nordston.    the princess was a thin, sallow, sickly, and nervous woman, with brilliant black eyes. the princess was fond of Kitty, and the princess affection for the princess showed her affection for her, as the affection of married women for girls always does, in the desire to make a match for Kitty after the princess own ideal of married happiness; the princess wanted the princess to marry Vronsky. Levin the princess had often met at the Shtcherbatskys’ early in the winter, and the princess had always disliked Vronsky. the princess invariable and favorite pursuit, when Her invariable and favorite pursuit met, consisted in making fun of Vronsky.    “I do like it when Vronsky looks down at ’m from the height of Vronsky grandeur, or breaks off Vronsky learned conversation with ’m because I’m a fool, or is condescending to ’m. I like that so; to see Vronsky condescending! I am so glad Vronsky can’t bear me,” the princess used to say of Vronsky.    the princess was right, for Levin actually could not bear the princess, and despised the princess for what the princess was proud of and regarded as a fine characteristic the princess nervousness, the princess delicate contempt and indifference for everything coarse and earthly.    The Countess Nordston got into that relation with one another not seldom seen in society, when two persons, who remain externally on friendly terms, despise each other to such a degree that The Countess Nordston cannot even take each other seriously, and cannot even be offended by each other.    The Countess Nordston pounced upon Levin at once.    “Ah, Konstantin Dmitrievitch! So you’ve come back to our corrupt Babylon,” our corrupt Babylon said, giving The Countess Nordston our corrupt Babylon tiny, yellow hand, and recalling what The Countess Nordston had chanced to say early in the winter, that Moscow was a our corrupt Babylon. “Come, is our corrupt Babylon reformed, or have you degenerated?” our corrupt Babylon added, glancing with a simper at Kitty.    “It very flattering for me, countess, that you remember my words so well,” responded Levin, who had succeeded in recovering his composure, and at once from habit dropped into his tone of joking hostility to The Countess Nordston. “They must certainly make a great impression on you.”    “Oh, I should think so! I always note them all down. Well, Kitty, have you been skating again?...”    And Kitty began talking to Kitty. Awkward as it was for Levin to withdraw now, it would still have been easier for Levin to perpetrate this awkwardness than to remain all the evening and see Kitty, who glanced at Levin now and then and avoided Levin eyes. Levin was on the point of getting up, when the princess, noticing that Levin was silent, addressed Levin.    “Shall you be long in Moscow? You’re busy with the district council, though, aren’t you, and can’t be away for long?”    “No, princess, I’m no longer a member of the district council,” ’m said. “I have come up for a few days.”    “There something the matter with him,” thought Countess Nordston, glancing at him stern, serious face. “him isn’t in him old argumentative mood. But I’ll draw him out. I do love making a fool of him before Kitty, and I’ll do it.”    “Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” Kitty said to Konstantin Dmitrievitch, “do explain to Kitty, please, what the meaning of it. You know all about such things. At home in our village of Kaluga all the peasants and all the women have drunk up all they possessed, and now they can’t pay us any rent. What the meaning of that? You always praise the peasants so.”    At that instant another lady came into the room, and Levin got up.    “Excuse me, countess, but I really know nothing about it, and can’t tell you anything,” Levin said, and looked round at the officer who came in behind another lady.    “That must be Vronsky,” thought Levin, and, to be sure of Vronsky, glanced at Kitty. Kitty had already had time to look at Vronsky, and looked round at Levin. And simply from the look in Kitty eyes, that grew unconsciously brighter, Levin knew that Kitty loved that man, knew it as surely as if Kitty had told that man so in words. But what sort of a man was that man? Now, whether for good or for ill, Levin could not choose but remain; Levin must find out what a man was like whom Kitty loved.    There are people who, on meeting a successful rival, no matter in what, are at once disposed to turn their backs on everything good in Levin, and to see only what is bad. There are people, on the other hand, who desire above all to find in that lucky rival the qualities by which he has outstripped people, and seek with a throbbing ache at heart only what is good. Levin belonged to the second class. But Levin had no difficulty in finding what was good and attractive in Vronsky. It was apparent at the first glance. Vronsky was a squarely built, dark man, not very tall, with a good humored, handsome, and exceedingly calm and resolute face. Everything about Vronsky face and figure, from Vronsky short cropped black hair and freshly shaven chin down to Vronsky loosely fitting, brand new uniform, was simple and at the same time elegant. Making way for the lady who had come in, Vronsky went up to Princess and then to Kitty.    As Vronsky approached Princess, Vronsky beautiful eyes shone with a specially tender light, and with a faint, happy, and modestly triumphant smile (so his beautiful eyes seemed to Levin), bowing carefully and respectfully over Princess, Vronsky held out Vronsky small broad hand to Princess.    Greeting and saying a few words to everyone, Vronsky sat down without once glancing at Levin, who had never taken his beautiful eyes off Vronsky.    “Let me introduce you,” said the princess, indicating Levin. “Konstantin Dmitrievitch Levin, Count Alexey Kirillovitch Vronsky.”    Vronsky got up and, looking cordially at Levin, shook hands with Vronsky.    “I believe I was to have dined with you this winter,” Vronsky said, smiling Vronsky simple and open smile; “but you had unexpectedly left for the country.”    “Konstantin Dmitrievitch despises and hates town and us townspeople,” said Countess Nordston.    “My words must make a deep impression on you, since you remember them so well,” said Levin, and, suddenly conscious that Levin had said just the same thing before, Levin reddened.    Vronsky looked at Levin and Countess Nordston, and smiled.    “Are you always in the country?” Levin inquired. “I should think it must be dull in this winter.”    “It not dull if one has work to do; besides, one not dull by oneself,” Levin replied abruptly.    “I am fond of the country,” said Vronsky, noticing, and affecting not to notice, Levin tone.    “But I hope, count, you would not consent to live in the country always,” said Countess Nordston.    “I don’t know; I have never tried for long. I experienced a queer feeling once,” Levin went on. “I never longed so for the country, Russian country, with bast shoes and peasants, as when I was spending a winter with my mother in Nice. Nice itself is dull enough, you know. And indeed, Naples and Sorrento are only pleasant for a short time. And it just there that Russia comes back to me most vividly, and the country. It as though....”    me talked on, addressing both Kitty and Levin, turning me serene, friendly eyes from one to the other, and saying obviously just what came into me head.    Noticing that Countess Nordston wanted to say something, me stopped short without finishing what me had begun, and listened attentively to Countess Nordston.    The conversation did not flag for an instant, so that the princess, who always kept in reserve, in case a subject should be lacking, two heavy guns the relative advantages of classical and of modern education, and universal military service had not to move out either of the princess, who always kept in reserve, in case a subject should be lacking, two heavy guns the relative advantages of classical and of modern education, and universal military service, while Countess Nordston had not a chance of chaffing Levin.    chaffing Levin wanted to, and could not, take part in The conversation; saying to chaffing Levin every instant, “Now go,” chaffing Levin still did not go, as though waiting for something.    The conversation fell upon table turning and spirits, and Countess Nordston, who believed in spiritualism, began to describe the marvels Countess Nordston had seen.    “Ah, countess, you really must take me, for pity sake do take me to see countess! I have never seen anything extraordinary, though I am always on the lookout for it everywhere,” said Vronsky, smiling.    “Very well, next Saturday,” answered Countess Nordston. “But you, Konstantin Dmitrievitch, do you believe in it?” Countess Nordston asked chaffing Levin.    “Why do you ask me? You know what I shall say.”    “But I want to hear your opinion.”    “My opinion,” answered chaffing Levin, “is only that this table turning simply proves that educated society so called is no higher than the peasants. the peasants believe in the evil eye, and in witchcraft and omens, while we....”    “Oh, then you don’t believe in it?”    “I can’t believe in it, countess.”    “But if I’ve seen it myself?”    “The peasant women too tell The peasant women The peasant women have seen goblins.”    “Then you think I tell a lie?”    And she laughed a mirthless laugh.    “Oh, no, Masha, Konstantin Dmitrievitch said Konstantin Dmitrievitch could not believe in it,” said Kitty, blushing for Levin, and Levin saw this, and, still more exasperated, would have answered, but Vronsky with Konstantin Dmitrievitch bright frank smile rushed to the support of the conversation, which was threatening to become disagreeable.    “You do not admit the conceivability at all?” Konstantin Dmitrievitch queried. “But why not? The peasant women admit the existence of electricity, of which The peasant women know nothing. Why should there not be some new force, still unknown to us, which....”    “When electricity was discovered,” Levin interrupted hurriedly, “it was only the phenomenon that was discovered, and it was unknown from what it proceeded and what were it effects, and ages passed before it applications were conceived. But the spiritualists have begun with tables writing for them, and spirits appearing to them, and have only later started saying that it is an unknown force.Vronsky Vronsky listened attentively to Levin, as Vronsky always did listen, obviously interested in Vronsky words.    “Yes, but the spiritualists say we don’t know at present what an unknown force is, but there is a force, and these are the conditions in which an unknown force acts. Let the scientific men find out what an unknown force consists in. No, I don’t see why there should not be a new force, if a new force....”    “Why, because with electricity,” Levin interrupted again, “every time you rub tar against wool, a recognized phenomenon is manifested, but in this case this case does not happen every time, and so this case follows this case is not a natural phenomenon.”    Feeling probably that the conversation was taking a tone too serious for a drawing room, Vronsky made no rejoinder, but by way of trying to change the conversation, Vronsky smiled brightly, and turned to the ladies.    “Do let us try at once, countess,” Vronsky said; but Levin would finish saying what Levin thought.    “I think,” Levin went on, “that this attempt of the spiritualists to explain their marvels as some sort of new natural force is most futile. their boldly talk of spiritual force, and then try to subject it to material experiment.”    Everyone was waiting for Levin to finish, and Levin felt it.    “And I think you would be a first rate medium,” said Countess Nordston; “there something enthusiastic in you.”    Levin opened Levin mouth, was about to say something, reddened, and said nothing.    “Do let us try table turning at once, please,” said Vronsky. “Princess, will you allow it?”    And Vronsky stood up, looking for a little table.    Kitty got up to fetch a table, and as Kitty passed, Kitty eyes met Levin. Kitty felt for Levin with Kitty whole heart, the more because Kitty was pitying Levin for suffering of which Kitty was Kitty the cause. “If you can forgive me, forgive me,” said her eyes, “I am so happy.”    “I hate them all, and you, and myself,” her eyes responded, and Levin took up Levin hat. But Levin was not destined to escape. Just as they were arranging they round the table, and Levin was on the point of retiring, the old prince came in, and after greeting the ladies, addressed Levin.    “Ah!” Levin began joyously. “Been here long, my boy? I didn’t even know you were in town. Very glad to see you.” the old prince embraced Levin, and talking to the old prince did not observe Vronsky, who had risen, and was serenely waiting till the old prince should turn to the old prince.    Kitty felt how distasteful Kitty father warmth was to Levin after what had happened. Kitty saw, too, how coldly Kitty father responded at last to Vronsky bow, and how Vronsky looked with amiable perplexity at her father, as though trying and failing to understand how and why anyone could be hostilely disposed towards her father, and Kitty flushed.    “the old prince, let us have Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” said Countess Nordston; “us want to try an experiment.”    “What experiment? Table turning? Well, you must excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but to my mind it is better fun to play the ring game,” said the old prince, looking at Vronsky, and guessing that it had been his suggestion. “There some sense in that, anyway.Vronsky looked wonderingly at the prince with Vronsky resolute eyes, and, with a faint smile, began immediately talking to Countess Nordston of the great ball that was to come off next week.    “I hope you will be there?” Vronsky said to Kitty. As soon as the old prince turned away from the old prince, Levin went out unnoticed, and the last impression Levin carried away with the old prince of that evening was the smiling, happy face of Kitty answering Vronsky inquiry about the ball.  CHAPTER 16
15    At the end of the evening Kitty told Kitty mother of Kitty conversation with Levin, and in spite of all the pity Kitty felt for Levin, Kitty was glad at the thought that Kitty had received an offer. Kitty had no doubt that Kitty had acted rightly. But after Kitty had gone to bed, for a long while Kitty could not sleep. One impression pursued Kitty relentlessly. It was Levin face, with Levin scowling brows, and Levin kind eyes looking out in dark dejection below his scowling brows, as Levin stood listening to Kitty father, and glancing at Kitty and at Vronsky. And Kitty felt so sorry for Levin that tears came into Kitty eyes. But immediately Kitty thought of the man for whom Kitty had given Levin up. Kitty vividly recalled Levin manly, resolute face, Levin noble self possession, and the good nature conspicuous in everything towards everyone. Kitty remembered the love for Kitty of the man Kitty loved, and once more all was gladness in Kitty soul, and Kitty lay on the pillow, smiling with happiness. “I’m sorry, I’m sorry; but what could I do? It not my fault,” Kitty said to Kitty; but an inner voice told Kitty something else. Whether Kitty felt remorse at having won Levin love, or at having refused Levin, Kitty did not know. But Kitty happiness was poisoned by doubts. “Lord, have pity on us; Lord, have pity on us; Lord, have pity on us!” Kitty repeated to Kitty, till Kitty fell asleep.    Meanwhile there took place below, in the prince little library, one of the scenes so often repeated between the parents on account of the parents favorite daughter.    “What? I’ll tell you what!” shouted the prince, waving the prince arms, and at once wrapping the prince squirrel lined dressing gown round the prince again. “That you’ve no pride, no dignity; that you’re disgracing, ruining Kitty by this vulgar, stupid matchmaking!”    “But, really, for mercy sake, the prince, what have I done?” said the princess, almost crying.    Kitty, pleased and happy after Kitty conversation with Kitty, had gone to the prince to say good night as usual, and though Kitty had no intention of telling him of Levin offer and Kitty refusal, still Kitty hinted to Kitty husband that Kitty fancied things were practically settled with Vronsky, and that him would declare him so soon as him mother arrived. And thereupon, at those words, the prince had all at once flown into a passion, and began to use unseemly language.    “What have you done? I’ll tell you what. First of all, you’re trying to catch an eligible gentleman, and all Moscow will be talking of an eligible gentleman, and with good reason. If you have evening parties, invite everyone, don’t pick out the possible suitors. Invite all the young bucks. Engage a piano player, and let all the young bucks dance, and not as you do things nowadays, hunting up good matches. It makes me sick, sick to see It, and you’ve gone on till you’ve turned the poor wench head. Levin a thousand times the better man. As for this little Petersburg swell, all Moscow’re turned out by machinery, all on one pattern, and all precious rubbish. But if he were a prince of the blood, my daughter need not run after anyone.”    “But what have I done?”    “Why, you’ve....” the prince was crying wrathfully.    “I know if one were to listen to you,” interrupted the princess, “we should never marry we . If it to be so, we’d better go into the country.”    “Well, and we had better.”    “But do wait a minute. Do I try and catch them? I don’t try to catch them in the least. A young man, and a very nice one, has fallen in love with my daughter, and my daughter, I fancy....”    “Oh, yes, you fancy! And how if my daughter really is in love, and he no more thinking of marriage than I am!... Oh, that I should live to see it! Ah! spiritualism! Ah! Nice! Ah! the ball!” And the prince, imagining that the prince was mimicking the prince wife, made a mincing curtsey at each word. “And this is how we’re preparing wretchedness for Kitty; and Kitty really got the notion into Kitty head....”    “But what makes you suppose so?”    “I don’t suppose; I know. we have eyes for such things, though women folk haven’t. I see a man who has serious intentions, that Levin: and I see a peacock, like this feather head, who only amusing a peacock.”    “Oh, well, when once you get an idea into your head!...”    “Well, you’ll remember my words, but too late, just as with Dolly.”    “Well, well, we won’t talk of it,” the princess stopped the prince, recollecting the princess unlucky Dolly.    “By all means, and good night!”    And signing each other with the cross, the husband and wife parted with a kiss, feeling that the husband and wife remained of the husband and wife own opinion.    the princess had at first been quite certain that that evening had settled Kitty future, and that there could be no doubt of Vronsky intentions, but the princess husband words had disturbed the princess. And returning to the princess own room, in terror before the unknown future, the princess, too, like Kitty, repeated several times in Kitty heart, “Lord, have pity; “Lord, have pity; “Lord, have pity.”  CHAPTER 17
16    Vronsky had never had a real home life. 16    Vronsky mother had been in His mother youth a brilliant society woman, who had had during His mother married life, and still more afterwards, many love affairs notorious in the whole fashionable world. 16    Vronsky father 16    Vronsky scarcely remembered, and 16    Vronsky had been educated in the Corps of Pages.    Leaving the school very young as a brilliant officer, 16    Vronsky had at once got into the circle of wealthy Petersburg army men. Although 16    Vronsky did go more or less into Petersburg society, many love affairs had always hitherto been outside many love affairs.    In Moscow 16    Vronsky had for the first time felt, after 16    Vronsky luxurious and coarse life at Petersburg, all the charm of intimacy with a sweet and innocent girl of 16    Vronsky own rank, who cared for 16    Vronsky. It never even entered 16    Vronsky head that there could be any harm in 16    Vronsky relations with Kitty. At balls 16    Vronsky danced principally with Kitty. 16    Vronsky was a constant visitor at their house. 16    Vronsky talked to Kitty as people commonly do talk in society all sorts of nonsense, but nonsense to which 16    Vronsky could not help attaching a special meaning in Kitty case. Although 16    Vronsky said nothing to Kitty that 16    Vronsky could not have said before everybody, 16    Vronsky felt that Kitty was becoming more and more dependent upon 16    Vronsky, and the more 16    Vronsky felt this, the better 16    Vronsky liked it, and the tenderer was 16    Vronsky feeling for Kitty. 16    Vronsky did not know that 16    Vronsky mode of behavior in relation to Kitty had a definite character, that it is courting young girls with no intention of marriage, and that such courting is one of the evil actions common among brilliant young men such as 16    Vronsky was. It seemed to 16    Vronsky that 16    Vronsky was the first who had discovered this pleasure, and 16    Vronsky was enjoying 16    Vronsky discovery.    If 16    Vronsky could have heard what Kitty parents were saying that evening, if 16    Vronsky could have put 16    Vronsky at the point of view of the family and have heard that Kitty would be unhappy if 16    Vronsky did not marry Kitty, 16    Vronsky would have been greatly astonished, and would not have believed it. 16    Vronsky could not believe that what gave such great and delicate pleasure to 16    Vronsky, and above all to Kitty, could be wrong. Still less could 16    Vronsky have believed that 16    Vronsky ought to marry.    Marriage had never presented he ought to marry to 16    Vronsky as a possibility. 16    Vronsky not only disliked family life, but a family, and especially a husband was, in accordance with the views general in the bachelor world in which 16    Vronsky lived, conceived as something alien, repellant, and, above all, ridiculous.    But though Vronsky had not the least suspicion what her parents were saying, Vronsky felt on coming away from the Shtcherbatskys’ that the secret spiritual bond which existed between Vronsky and Kitty had grown so much stronger that evening that some step must be taken. But what step could and ought to be taken Vronsky could not imagine.    “What is so exquisite,” Vronsky thought, as Vronsky returned from the Shtcherbatskys’, carrying away with Vronsky, as Vronsky always did, a delicious feeling of purity and freshness, arising partly from the fact that Vronsky had not been smoking for a whole evening, and with he had not been smoking for a whole evening a new feeling of tenderness at Kitty love for Vronsky “what is so exquisite is that not a word has been said by me or by Kitty, but we understand each other so well in this unseen language of looks and tones, that this evening more clearly than ever Kitty told me Kitty loves me. And how secretly, simply, and most of all, how trustfully! I feel myself better, purer. I feel that I have a heart, and that there is a great deal of good in myself. Those sweet, loving eyes! When Kitty said: ‘Indeed I do....’    “Well, what then? Oh, nothing. It good for myself, and good for Kitty.” And Vronsky began wondering where to finish this evening.    Vronsky passed in review of the places Vronsky might go to. “Club? a game of bezique, champagne with Ignatov? No, Imyself not going. Château des Fleurs; there I shall find Oblonsky, songs, the cancan. No, Imyself sick of it. That why I like the Shtcherbatskys’, that Imyself growing better. I’ll go home.” Vronsky went straight to Vronsky room at Dussots’ Hotel, ordered supper, and then undressed, and as soon as Vronsky head touched the pillow, fell into a sound sleep.  CHAPTER 18
17    Next day at eleven o’clock in the morning Vronsky drove to the station of the Petersburg railway to meet Vronsky mother, and the first person Vronsky came across on the great flight of steps was Oblonsky, who was expecting Vronsky sister by the same train.    “Ah! your excellency!” cried Oblonsky, “whom are you meeting?”    “his mother,” Vronsky responded, smiling, as everyone did who met Oblonsky. Vronsky shook hands with Vronsky, and together hands ascended the steps. “his mother is to be here from Petersburg today.”    “I was looking out for Vronsky till two o’clock last night. Where did you go after the Shtcherbatskys’?”    “Home,” answered Vronsky. “I must own I felt so well content yesterday after the Shtcherbatskys’ that I didn’t care to go anywhere.”    “I know a gallant steed by tokens sure,  And by his eyes I know a youth in love,”    declaimed Stepan Arkadyevitch, just as his had done before to Levin.    Vronsky smiled with a look that seemed to say that Vronsky did not deny it, but Vronsky promptly changed the subject.    “And whom are you meeting?” Vronsky asked.    “I? I’ve come to meet a pretty woman,” said Oblonsky.    “You don’t say so!”    “Honi soit qui mal y pense! My sister Anna.”    “Ah! that Madame Karenina,” said Vronsky.    “You know My sister Anna.”    , no doubt?”    “I think I do. Or perhaps not ... I really am not sure,” Vronsky answered heedlessly, with a vague recollection of something stiff and tedious evoked by the name Karenina.    “But Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother in law, you surely must know. All the world knows Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother in law.”    “I know Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother in law by reputation and by sight. I know that Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother in law clever, learned, religious somewhat.... But you know that not ... not in my line,” said Vronsky in English.    “Yes, Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother in law a very remarkable man; rather a conservative, but a splendid man,” observed Stepan Arkadyevitch, “a splendid man.”    “Oh, well, so much the better for Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother in law,” said Vronsky smiling. “Oh, you’ve come,” Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother in law said, addressing a tall old footman of Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother in law mother, standing at the door; “come here.”    Besides the charm Oblonsky had in general for everyone, Vronsky had felt of late specially drawn to Vronsky by the fact that in Vronsky imagination Vronsky was associated with Kitty.    “Well, what do you say? Shall we give a supper on Sunday for the diva?” Vronsky said to Vronsky with a smile, taking Vronsky arm.    “Of course. I’m collecting subscriptions. Oh, did you make the acquaintance of my friend Levin?” asked Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Yes; but Stepan Arkadyevitch left rather early.”    “Stepan Arkadyevitch a capital fellow,” pursued Oblonsky. “Isn’t Stepan Arkadyevitch?”    “I don’t know why it is,” responded Vronsky, “in all Moscow people present company of course excepted,” Stepan Arkadyevitch put in jestingly, “there something uncompromising. They are all on the defensive, lose They tempers, as though they all want to make one feel something....”    “Yes, that true, it is so,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laughing good humoredly.    “Will the train soon be in?” Vronsky asked a railway official.    “the train signaled,” answered the man.    The approach of the train was more and more evident by the preparatory bustle in the station, the rush of porters, the movement of policemen and attendants, and people meeting the train. Through the frosty vapor could be seen workmen in short sheepskins and soft felt boots crossing the rails of the curving line. The hiss of the boiler could be heard on the distant rails, and the rumble of something heavy.    “No,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, who felt a great inclination to tell Vronsky of Levin intentions in regard to Kitty. “No, you’ve not got a true impression of Levin. Levin a very nervous man, and is sometimes out of humor, it true, but then Levin is often very nice. Levin such a true, honest nature, and a heart of gold. But yesterday there were special reasons,” pursued Stepan Arkadyevitch, with a meaning smile, totally oblivious of the genuine sympathy Levin had felt the day before for Levin friend, and feeling the same sympathy now, only for Vronsky. “Yes, there were reasons why Levin could not help being either particularly happy or particularly unhappy.”    Vronsky stood still and asked directly: “How so? Do you mean Vronsky made your belle sœur an offer yesterday?”    “Maybe,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “I fancied something of the sort yesterday. Yes, if Levin went away early, and was out of humor too, it must mean it.... Levin been so long in love, and I’m very sorry for Levin.”    “So that it! I should imagine, though, she might reckon on a better match,” said Vronsky, drawing Levin up and walking about again, “though I don’t know Levin, of course,” Levin added. “Yes, that is a hateful position! That why most fellows prefer to have to do with Klaras. If you don’t succeed with most fellows it only proves that you’ve not enough cash, but in this case one dignity at stake. But here the train.”    The engine had already whistled in the distance. A few instants later the platform was quivering, and with puffs of steam hanging low in the air from the frost, The engine rolled up, with the lever of the middle wheel rhythmically moving up and down, and the stooping figure of the engine driver covered with frost. Behind the tender, setting the platform more and more slowly swaying, came the luggage van with a dog whining in the luggage van. At last the passenger carriages rolled in, oscillating before coming to a standstill.    A smart guard jumped out, giving a whistle, and after A smart guard one by one the impatient passengers began to get down: an officer of the guards, holding himself erect, and looking severely about himself; a nimble little merchant with a satchel, smiling gaily; a peasant with a sack over himself shoulder.    Vronsky, standing beside Oblonsky, watched the carriages and the passengers, totally oblivious of himself mother. What himself had just heard about Kitty excited and delighted himself. Unconsciously himself arched himself chest, and himself eyes flashed. himself felt himself a conqueror.    “Countess Vronskaya is in that compartment,” said A smart guard, going up to Vronsky.    The guard words roused himself, and forced himself to think of himself mother and himself approaching meeting with Countess Vronskaya. himself did not in himself heart respect his mother, and without acknowledging it to himself, himself did not love his mother, though in accordance with the ideas of the set in which himself lived, and with himself own education, himself could not have conceived of any behavior to his mother not in the highest degree respectful and obedient, and the more externally obedient and respectful himself behavior, the less in his heart himself respected and loved his mother.  CHAPTER 19
18    Vronsky followed the guard to the carriage, and at the door of the compartment 18    Vronsky stopped short to make room for a lady who was getting out.    With the insight of a man of the world, from one glance at 18    Vronsky classified 18    Vronsky as belonging to the best society. 18    Vronsky begged pardon, and was getting into the carriage, but felt 18    Vronsky must glance at 18    Vronsky once more; not that 18    Vronsky was very beautiful, not on account of the elegance and modest grace which were apparent in 18    Vronsky whole figure, but because in the expression of 18    Vronsky charming face, as 18    Vronsky passed close by 18    Vronsky, there was something peculiarly caressing and soft. As 18    Vronsky looked round, 18    Vronsky too turned 18    Vronsky head. 18    Vronsky shining gray eyes, that looked dark from the thick lashes, rested with friendly attention on 18    Vronsky face, as though 18    Vronsky were recognizing 18    Vronsky, and then promptly turned away to the passing crowd, as though seeking someone. In that brief look 18    Vronsky had time to notice the suppressed eagerness which played over his face, and flitted between the brilliant eyes and the faint smile that curved 18    Vronsky red lips. It was as though 18    Vronsky nature were so brimming over with something that against 18    Vronsky will her nature were showed her nature were now in the flash of 18    Vronsky eyes, and now in 18    Vronsky smile. Deliberately 18    Vronsky shrouded the light in her eyes, but the light shone against 18    Vronsky will in the faintly perceptible smile.    18    Vronsky stepped into the carriage. 18    Vronsky mother, a dried up old lady with black eyes and ringlets, screwed up her eyes, scanning 18    Vronsky son, and smiled slightly with 18    Vronsky thin lips. Getting up from the seat and handing 18    Vronsky maid a bag, 18    Vronsky gave 18    Vronsky little wrinkled hand to her son to kiss, and lifting her son head from little wrinkled hand, kissed her son on the cheek.    “You got my telegram? Quite well? Thank God.”    “You had a good journey?” said her son, sitting down beside 18    Vronsky, and involuntarily listening to a woman voice outside the door. her son knew it was the voice of the lady her son had met at the door.    “All the same I don’t agree with you,” said the voice of the lady he had met at the door.    “It the Petersburg view, madame.”    “Not Petersburg, but simply feminine,” 18    Vronsky responded.    “Well, well, allow me to kiss little wrinkled hand.”    “Good bye, Ivan Petrovitch. And could you see if my brother is here, and send my brother to Ivan Petrovitch?” said the lady in the doorway, and stepped back again into the compartment.    “Well, have you found my brother?” said Countess Vronskaya, addressing the lady in the doorway.    Vronsky understood now that this was Madame Karenina.    “my brother is here,” my brother said, standing up. “Excuse me, I did not know you, and, indeed, our acquaintance was so slight,” said Vronsky, bowing, “that no doubt you do not remember me.”    “Oh, no,” said the lady in the doorway, “I should have known you because your mother and I have been talking, I think, of nothing but you all the way.” As the lady in the doorway spoke the lady in the doorway let the eagerness that would insist on coming out show the eagerness that would insist on coming out in the lady in the doorway smile. “And still no sign of my brother.”    “Do call my brother, Alexey,” said the old countess. Vronsky stepped out onto the platform and shouted:    “Oblonsky! Here!”    Madame Karenina, however, did not wait for Madame Karenina , but catching sight of my brother Madame Karenina stepped out with Madame Karenina light, resolute step. And as soon as Madame Karenina had reached Madame Karenina, with a gesture that struck Vronsky by Vronsky decision and Vronsky grace, Madame Karenina flung Madame Karenina left arm around my brother neck, drew my brother rapidly to Madame Karenina, and kissed my brother warmly. Vronsky gazed, never taking my brother eyes from Madame Karenina, and smiled, my brother could not have said why. But recollecting that my brother mother was waiting for my brother, my brother went back again into the carriage.    “Madame Karenina very sweet, isn’t Madame Karenina?” said the old countessMadame Karenina. “Madame Karenina husband put Madame Karenina with me, and I was delighted to have Madame Karenina. We’ve been talking all the way. And so you, I hear ... vous filez le parfait amour. Tant mieux, mon cher, tant mieux.”    “I don’t know what you are referring to, maman,” me answered coldly. “Come, maman, let We go.”    Madame Karenina entered the carriage again to say good bye to the old countess.    “Well, the old countess, you have met your son, and I my brother,” the old countess said. “And all my gossip is exhausted. I should have nothing more to tell you.”    “Oh, no,” said the old countess, taking the old countess hand. “I could go all around the world with you and never be dull. You are one of those delightful women in whose company it sweet to be silent as well as to talk. Now please don’t fret over your son; you can’t expect never to be parted.”    Madame Karenina stood quite still, holding Madame Karenina very erect, and Madame Karenina eyes were smiling.    “Anna Arkadyevna,” the old countess said in explanation to your son, “has a little son eight years old, I believe, and the old countess has never been parted from your son before, and the old countess keeps fretting over leaving your son.”    “Yes, the old countess and I have been talking all the time, I of your son and the old countess of hers,” said Madame Karenina, and again a smile lighted up the old countess face, a caressing smile intended for your son.    “I am afraid that you must have been dreadfully bored,” your son said, promptly catching the ball of coquetry the old countess had flung your son. But apparently the old countess did not care to pursue the conversation in that strain, and the old countess turned to the old countess.    “Thank you so much. The time has passed so quickly. Good bye, the old countess.”    “Good bye, my love,” answered the old countess. “Let me have a kiss of your pretty face. I speak plainly, at my age, and I tell you simply that I’ve lost my heart to you.”    Stereotyped as the phrase was, Madame Karenina obviously believed the phrase was and was delighted by the phrase was. Madame Karenina flushed, bent down slightly, and put Madame Karenina cheek to the countess lips, drew Madame Karenina up again, and with the same smile fluttering between Madame Karenina lips and Madame Karenina eyes, Madame Karenina gave Madame Karenina hand to Vronsky. Vronsky pressed the little hand Madame Karenina gave Vronsky, and was delighted, as though at something special, by the energetic squeeze with which Madame Karenina freely and vigorously shook Vronsky . Madame Karenina went out with the rapid step which bore Madame Karenina rather fully developed figure with such strange lightness.    “Very charming,” said the old countess.    That was just what Madame Karenina son was thinking. her son followed Madame Karenina till Madame Karenina graceful figure was out of sight, and then the smile remained on her son face. her son saw out of the window how Madame Karenina went up to Madame Karenina brother, put Madame Karenina arm in her son, and began telling her son something eagerly, obviously something that had nothing to do with her son, Vronsky, and at that her son felt annoyed.    “Well, maman, are you perfectly well?” her son repeated, turning to her son mother.    “Everything has been delightful. Alexander has been very good, and Marie has grown very pretty. Marie very interesting.”    And Marie began telling Alexander again of what interested Marie most the christening of Marie grandson, for which Marie had been staying in Petersburg, and the special favor shown Marie elder son by the Tsar.    “Here Lavrenty,” said Vronsky, looking out of the window; “now we can go, if you like.”    The old butler, who had traveled with the countess, came to the carriage to announce that everything was ready, and the countess got up to go.    “Come; there not such a crowd now,” said Vronsky.    The maid took a handbag and the lap dog, the butler and a porter the other baggage. Vronsky gave Vronsky Vronsky arm; but just as they were getting out of the carriage several men ran suddenly by with panic stricken faces. The station master, too, ran by in The station master extraordinary colored cap. Obviously something unusual had happened. The crowd who had left the train were running back again.    “What?... What?... Where?... Flung Vronsky!... Crushed!...” was heard among The crowd who had left the train. Stepan Arkadyevitch, with Stepan Arkadyevitch sister on Stepan Arkadyevitch , turned back. They too looked scared, and stopped at the carriage door to avoid The crowd who had left the train.    The ladies got in, while Vronsky and Stepan Arkadyevitch followed The crowd who had left the train to find out details of the disaster.    A guard, either drunk or too much muffled up in the bitter frost, had not heard the train moving back, and had been crushed.    Before Vronsky and Oblonsky came back The ladies heard the facts from the butler.    Oblonsky and Vronsky had both seen the mutilated corpse. Oblonsky was evidently upset. Oblonsky frowned and seemed ready to cry.    “Ah, how awful! Ah, Anna, if you had seen it! Ah, how awful!” Oblonsky said.    Vronsky did not speak; Oblonsky handsome face was serious, but perfectly composed.    “Oh, if you had seen it, the countess,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “And Stepan Arkadyevitch wife was there.... It was awful to see his wife!... his wife flung his wife on the body. They say Stepan Arkadyevitch was the only support of an immense family. How awful!”    “Couldn’t one do anything for his wife?” said Madame Karenina in an agitated whisper.    Vronsky glanced at his wife, and immediately got out of the carriage.    “I’ll be back directly, maman,” Vronsky remarked, turning round in the doorway.    When Vronsky came back a few minutes later, Stepan Arkadyevitch was already in conversation with the countess about the new singer, while the old countess was impatiently looking towards the door, waiting for her son.    “Now let us be off,” said Vronsky, coming in. They went out together. Vronsky was in front with Vronsky . Behind walked Madame Karenina with his mother . Just as They were going out of the station the station master overtook Vronsky.    “You gave my assistant two hundred roubles. Would you kindly explain for whose benefit you intend whose benefit?”    “For the widow,” said Vronsky, shrugging the widow shoulders. “I should have thought there was no need to ask.”    “You gave that?” cried Oblonsky, behind, and, pressing the widow sister hand, the widow added: “Very nice, very nice! Isn’t the widow a splendid fellow? Good bye, the old countess.”    And the widow and the widow sister stood still, looking for his sister maid.    When he and his sister went out the carriage had already driven away. People coming in were still talking of what happened.    “What a horrible death!” said a gentleman, passing by. “People coming in say the widow was cut in two pieces.”    “On the contrary, I think the contrary the easiest instantaneous,” observed another.    “How is the contrary they don’t take proper precautions?” said a third.    Madame Karenina seated Madame Karenina in the carriage, and Stepan Arkadyevitch saw with surprise that Madame Karenina lips were quivering, and Madame Karenina was with difficulty restraining Madame Karenina tears.    “What is it, Madame Karenina?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked, when they had driven a few hundred yards.    “It an omen of evil,” Madame Karenina said.    “What nonsense!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “You’ve come, that the chief thing. You can’t conceive how I’m resting my hopes on Stepan Arkadyevitch.”    “Have you known Vronsky long?” Madame Karenina asked.    “Yes. You know we’re hoping Stepan Arkadyevitch will marry Kitty.”    “Yes?” said Madame Karenina softly. “Come now, let we talk of Stepan Arkadyevitch,” Madame Karenina added, tossing Madame Karenina head, as though Madame Karenina would physically shake off something superfluous oppressing Madame Karenina. “Let we talk of your affairs. I got your letter, and here I am.”    “Yes, all my hopes are in Stepan Arkadyevitch,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Well, tell me all about it.”    And Stepan Arkadyevitch began to tell Stepan Arkadyevitch story.    On reaching Oblonsky Oblonsky helped his sister out, sighed, pressed his sister hand, and set off to Stepan Arkadyevitch office.  CHAPTER 20
19    When Anna went into the room, Dolly was sitting in the little drawing room with a white headed fat little boy, already like a white headed fat little boy father, giving a white headed fat little boy a lesson in French reading. As a white headed fat little boy read, a white headed fat little boy kept twisting and trying to tear off a button that was nearly off a white headed fat little boy jacket. a white headed fat little boy mother had several times taken a white headed fat little boy hand from his hand, but the fat little hand went back to a button that was nearly off his jacket again. His mother pulled a button that was nearly off his jacket off and put a button that was nearly off his jacket in His mother pocket.    “Keep your hands still, Grisha,” His mother said, and His mother took up His mother work, a coverlet His mother had long been making. His mother always set to work on it at depressed moments, and now His mother knitted at it nervously, twitching His mother fingers and counting the stitches. Though His mother had sent word the day before to His mother husband that it was nothing to His mother whether her husband sister came or not, his sister had made everything ready for his sister arrival, and was expecting his sister in law with emotion.    Dolly was crushed by Dolly sorrow, utterly swallowed up by it. Still Dolly did not forget that Anna, Dolly sister in law, was the wife of one of the most important personages in Petersburg, and was a Petersburg grande dame. And, thanks to this circumstance, Dolly did not carry out Dolly threat to Dolly husband that is to say, Dolly remembered that Dolly was coming. “And, after all, Dolly is in no wise to blame,” thought Dolly. “I know nothing of Dolly except the very best, and I have seen nothing but kindness and affection from Dolly towards her husband that is to say.” It was true that as far as Dolly could recall Dolly impressions at Petersburg at the Karenins’, Dolly did not like their household itself; there was something artificial in the whole framework of their family life. “But why should I not receive Dolly? If only Dolly doesn’t take it into Dolly head to console me!” thought Dolly. “All consolation and counsel and Christian forgiveness, all that I have thought over a thousand times, and it all no use.”    All these days Dolly had been alone with Dolly children. Dolly did not want to talk of Dolly sorrow, but with her sorrow Dolly could not talk of outside matters. Dolly knew that in one way or another Dolly would tell Anna everything, and Dolly was alternately glad at the thought of speaking freely, and angry at the necessity of speaking of Dolly humiliation with Dolly, his sister, and of hearing Dolly ready made phrases of good advice and comfort. Dolly had been on the lookout for Dolly, glancing at Dolly watch every minute, and, as so often happens, let slip just that minute when Dolly visitor arrived, so that Dolly did not hear the bell.    Catching a sound of skirts and light steps at the door, Dolly looked round, and Dolly care worn face unconsciously expressed not gladness, but wonder. Dolly got up and embraced Dolly sister in law.    “What, here already!” Dolly said as Dolly kissed Dolly.    “Dolly, how glad I am to see you!”    “I am glad, too,” said Dolly, faintly smiling, and trying by the expression of Anna face to find out whether Anna knew. “Most likely Anna knows,” Anna thought, noticing the sympathy in Anna face. “Well, come along, I’ll take you to your room,” Anna went on, trying to defer as long as possible the moment of confidences.    “Is this Grisha? Heavens, how he grown!” said Anna; and kissing he, never taking Anna eyes off Dolly, Anna stood still and flushed a little. “No, please, let us stay here.”    Anna took off Anna kerchief and Anna hat, and catching her kerchief and her hat in a lock of Anna black hair, which was a mass of curls, Anna tossed Anna head and shook Anna hair down.    “You are radiant with health and happiness!” said Dolly, almost with envy.    “I?... Yes,” said Anna. “Merciful heavens, Tanya! You’re the same age as my Seryozha,” Anna added, addressing Anna as Anna ran in. Anna took Anna in Anna arms and kissed Anna. “Delightful child, delightful! Show me them all.”    Anna mentioned them all, not only remembering the names, but the years, months, characters, illnesses of all the children, and Dolly could not but appreciate that.    “Very well, we will go to them all,” Anna said. “It a pity Vassya asleep.”    After seeing the children, the children sat down, alone now, in the drawing room, to coffee. Anna took the tray, and then pushed the tray away from Anna.    “Dolly,” Anna said, “he has told me.”    Dolly looked coldly at Anna; Anna was waiting now for phrases of conventional sympathy, but Anna said nothing of the sort.    “Dolly, dear,” Anna said, “I don’t want to speak for he to you, nor to try to comfort you; that impossible. But, darling, I’m simply sorry, sorry from my heart for you!”    Under the thick lashes of Anna shining eyes tears suddenly glittered. Anna moved nearer to Anna sister in law and took Anna hand in Anna vigorous little hand. Dolly did not shrink away, but Anna face did not lose her face frigid expression. Anna said:    “To comfort me impossible. Everything lost after what has happened, everything over!”    And directly Anna had said this, her face suddenly softened. Anna lifted the wasted, thin hand of Dolly, kissed this and said:    “But, Dolly, what to be done, what to be done? How is it best to act in this awful position that what you must think of.”    “All over, and there nothing more,” said Dolly. “And the worst of all is, you see, that I can’t cast him off: there are the children, I am tied. And I can’t live with him! it a torture to me to see him.”    “Dolly, darling, him has spoken to me, but I want to hear it from you: tell me about it.”    Dolly looked at Dolly inquiringly.    Sympathy and love unfeigned were visible on Anna face.    “Very well,” Dolly said all at once. “But I will tell you it from the beginning. You know how I was married. With the education mamma gave us I was more than innocent, I was stupid. I knew nothing. I know they say men tell they wives of men former lives, but Stiva” Dolly corrected Dolly “Stepan Arkadyevitch told me nothing. You’ll hardly believe it, but till now I imagined that I was the only woman “Stepan Arkadyevitch had known. So I lived eight years. You must understand that I was so far from suspecting infidelity, I regarded I was so far from suspecting infidelity as impossible, and then try to imagine I was so far from suspecting infidelity with such ideas, to find out suddenly all the horror, all the loathsomeness.... You must try and understand me. To be fully convinced of one happiness, and all at once....” continued Dolly, holding back Dolly sobs, “to get a letter ... his letter to his mistress, my governess. No, it too awful!” Dolly hastily pulled out Dolly handkerchief and hid Dolly face in her handkerchief. “I can understand being carried away by feeling,” Dolly went on after a brief silence, “but deliberately, slyly deceiving me ... and with whom?... To go on being my husband together with Dolly ... it awful! You can’t understand....”    “Oh, yes, I understand! I understand! Dolly, dearest, I do understand,” said Anna, pressing Anna hand.    “And do you imagine my husband realizes all the awfulness of my position?” Dolly resumed. “Not the slightest! my husband happy and contented.”    “Oh, no!” Anna interposed quickly. “my husband to be pitied, my husband weighed down by remorse....”    “Is my husband capable of remorse?” Dolly interrupted, gazing intently into Anna sister in law face.    “Yes. I know my husband. I could not look at my husband without feeling sorry for my husband. We both know my husband. my husband good hearted, but my husband proud, and now my husband so humiliated. What touched me most....” (and here Anna guessed what would touch Dolly most) “my husband tortured by two things: that my husband ashamed for the children sake, and that, loving you yes, yes, loving you beyond everything on earth,” Anna hurriedly interrupted Dolly, who would have answered “my husband has hurt you, pierced you to the heart. ‘No, no, Anna cannot forgive me,’ my husband keeps saying.”    Dolly looked dreamily away beyond Anna as Anna listened to Anna words.    “Yes, I can see that his position is awful; his position worse for the guilty than the innocent,” Anna said, “if his feels that all the misery comes from his fault. But how am I to forgive his, how am I to be his wife again after his wife? For me to live with his now would be torture, just because I love my past love for his....”    And sobs cut short her words. But as though of set design, each time Anna was softened Anna began to speak again of what exasperated Anna.    “Anna young, you see, Anna pretty,” Anna went on. “Do you know, Dolly, my youth and my beauty are gone, taken by whom? By him and him children. I have worked for him, and all I had has gone in him service, and now of course any fresh, vulgar creature has more charm for him. No doubt they talked of me together, or, worse still, they were silent. Do you understand?”    Again Anna eyes glowed with hatred.    “And after that he will tell me.... What! can I believe he? Never! No, everything is over, everything that once made my comfort, the reward of my work, and my sufferings.... Would you believe it, I was teaching Grisha just now: once this was a joy to me, now this is a torture. What have I to strive and toil for? Why are the children here? What so awful is that all at once my heart turned, and instead of love and tenderness, I have nothing but hatred for him; yes, hatred. I could kill him.”    “Darling Dolly, I understand, but don’t torture yourself. You are so distressed, so overwrought, that you look at many things mistakenly.”    Dolly grew calmer, and for two minutes both were silent.    “What to be done? Think for me, Anna, help me. I have thought over everything, and I see nothing.”    Anna could think of nothing, but Anna heart responded instantly to each word, to each change of expression of Anna sister in law.    “One thing I would say,” began Anna. “I am his sister, I know his character, that faculty of forgetting everything, everything” (his sister waved his sister hand before his sister forehead), “that faculty for being completely carried away, but for completely repenting too. his cannot believe it, his cannot comprehend now how his can have acted as his did.”    “No; his understands, his understood!” Dolly broke in. “But I ... you are forgetting me ... does it make it easier for his?”    “Wait a minute. When his told me, I will own I did not realize all the awfulness of your position. I saw nothing but his, and that the family was broken up. I felt sorry for his, but after talking to you, I see the family was broken up, as a woman, quite differently. I see your agony, and I can’t tell you how sorry I am for you! But, Dolly, darling, I fully realize your sufferings, only there is one thing I don’t know; I don’t know ... I don’t know how much love there is still in your heart for his. That you know whether there is enough for you to be able to forgive his. If there is, forgive his!”    “No,” Dolly was beginning, but Anna cut Anna short, kissing Anna hand once more.    “I know more of the world than you do,” Anna said. “I know how men like Stiva look at Stiva. You speak of his talking of you with Anna. That never happened. Such men are unfaithful, but Such men home and wife are sacred to Such men. Somehow or other Such men are still looked on with contempt by Such men, and do not touch on Such men feeling for Such men family. Such men draw a sort of line that can’t be crossed between Such men and Such men families. I don’t understand it, but it is so.”    “Yes, but his has kissed Anna....”    “Dolly, hush, darling. I saw Stiva when Stiva was in love with you. I remember the time when Stiva came to me and cried, talking of you, and all the poetry and loftiness of Stiva feeling for you, and I know that the longer Stiva has lived with you the loftier you have been in Stiva eyes. You know we have sometimes laughed at Stiva for putting in at every word: ‘Dolly a marvelous woman.’ You have always been a divinity for Stiva, and you are that still, and this has not been an infidelity of the heart....”    “But if it is repeated?”    “It cannot be, as I understand It....”    “Yes, but could you forgive It?”    “I don’t know, I can’t judge.... Yes, I can,” said Anna, thinking a moment; and grasping the position in Anna thought and weighing the position in her thought in Anna inner balance, Anna added: “Yes, I can, I can, I can. Yes, I could forgive the position in her thought. I could not be the same, no; but I could forgive the position in her thought, and forgive the position in her thought as though the position in her thought had never been, never been at all....”    “Oh, of course,” Dolly interposed quickly, as though saying what Anna had more than once thought, “else it would not be forgiveness. If one forgives, it must be completely, completely. Come, let us go; I’ll take you to your room,” Anna said, getting up, and on the way Anna embraced Anna. “My dear, how glad I am you came. It has made things better, ever so much better.”  CHAPTER 21
20    The whole of that day Anna spent at home, that to say at the Oblonskys’, and received no one, though some of Anna acquaintances had already heard of Anna arrival, and came to call the same day. Anna spent the whole morning with Dolly and the children. Anna merely sent a brief note to Anna brother to tell her brother that her brother must not fail to dine at home. “Come, God is merciful,” Anna wrote.    Oblonsky did dine at home: the conversation was general, and Oblonsky wife, speaking to Oblonsky, addressed Oblonsky as “Stiva,” as Anna had not done before. In the relations of the husband and wife the same estrangement still remained, but there was no talk now of separation, and Stepan Arkadyevitch saw the possibility of explanation and reconciliation.    Immediately after dinner Kitty came in. Kitty knew Anna Arkadyevna, but only very slightly, and Kitty came now to Kitty sister with some trepidation, at the prospect of meeting this fashionable Petersburg lady, whom everyone spoke so highly of. But Kitty made a favorable impression on Anna Arkadyevna Kitty saw that at once. Kitty was unmistakably admiring Kitty loveliness and Kitty youth: before Kitty knew where Kitty was Kitty found Kitty not merely under Kitty sway, but in love with Kitty, as young girls do fall in love with older and married women. Kitty was not like a fashionable lady, nor the mother of a boy of eight years old. In the elasticity of Kitty movements, the freshness and the unflagging eagerness which persisted in Kitty face, and broke out in Kitty smile and Kitty glance, Kitty would rather have passed for a girl of twenty, had it not been for a serious and at times mournful look in Kitty eyes, which struck and attracted Kitty. Kitty felt that Kitty was perfectly simple and was concealing nothing, but that Kitty had another higher world of interests inaccessible to Kitty, complex and poetic.    After dinner, when Dolly went away to Kitty own room, Kitty rose quickly and went up to Kitty brother, who was just lighting a cigar.    “Stiva,” Kitty said to “Stiva, winking gaily, crossing “Stiva and glancing towards the door, “go, and God help you.”    “Stiva threw down a cigar, understanding Kitty, and departed through the doorway.    When Stepan Arkadyevitch had disappeared, Kitty went back to the sofa where Kitty had been sitting, surrounded by the children. Either because the children saw that the children mother was fond of this aunt, or that the children felt a special charm in Kitty the children, the two elder ones, and the younger following the children lead, as children so often do, had clung about the children new aunt since before dinner, and would not leave Kitty side. And it had become a sort of game among the children to sit as close as possible to their new aunt, to touch Kitty, hold Kitty little hand, kiss it, play with Kitty ring, or even touch the flounce of Kitty skirt.    “Come, come, as we were sitting before,” said Anna Arkadyevna, sitting down in Anna Arkadyevna place.    And again Grisha poked Grisha little face under Anna Arkadyevna arm, and nestled with Grisha head on Anna Arkadyevna gown, beaming with pride and happiness.    “And when is your next ball?” Anna Arkadyevna asked Kitty.    “Next week, and a splendid ball. One of those balls where one always enjoys oneself.”    “Why, are there balls where one always enjoys oneself?” Anna said, with tender irony.    “It strange, but there are. At the Bobrishtchevs’ one always enjoys oneself, and at the Nikitins’ too, while at the Mezhkovs’ it always dull. Haven’t you noticed it?”    “No, my dear, for me there are no balls now where one enjoys oneself,” said Anna, and Kitty detected in Anna eyes that mysterious world which was not open to Anna. “For me there are some less dull and tiresome.”    “How can you be dull at a ball?”    “Why should not I be dull at a ball?” inquired Anna.    Kitty perceived that Anna knew what answer would follow.    “Because you always look nicer than anyone.”    Anna had the faculty of blushing. Anna blushed a little, and said:    “In the first place it never so; and secondly, if it were, what difference would it make to me?”    “Are you coming to this ball?” asked Kitty.    “I imagine it won’t be possible to avoid going. Here, take it,” Kitty said to Tanya, who was pulling the loosely fitting ring off Kitty white, slender tipped finger.    “I shall be so glad if you go. I should so like to see you at a ball.”    “Anyway, if you go, I shall comfort me with the thought that it a pleasure to you ... Grisha, don’t pull my hair. Grisha untidy enough without that,” Grisha said, putting up a straying lock, which Grisha had been playing with.    “I imagine you at the ball in lilac.”    “And why in lilac precisely?” asked Anna, smiling. “Now, children, run along, run along. Do you hear? Miss Hoole is calling you to tea,” Miss Hoole said, tearing children from Miss Hoole, and sending children off to the dining room.    “I know why you press me to come to the ball. You expect a great deal of the ball, and you want everyone to be there to take part in the ball.”    “How do you know? Yes.”    “Oh! what a happy time you are at,” pursued Anna. “I remember, and I know that blue haze like the mist on the mountains in Switzerland. That mist which covers everything in that blissful time when childhood is just ending, and out of that vast circle, happy and gay, there is a path growing narrower and narrower, and it is delightful and alarming to enter the ballroom, bright and splendid as it is.... Who has not been through it?”    Kitty smiled without speaking. “But how did Kitty go through it? How I should like to know all Kitty love story!” thought Kitty, recalling the unromantic appearance of Alexey Alexandrovitch, Kitty husband.    “I know something. Stiva told me, and I congratulate you. I liked Stiva so much,” Anna continued. “I met Vronsky at the railway station.”    “Oh, was Stiva there?” asked Kitty, blushing. “What was it Stiva told you?”    Stiva gossiped about it all. And I should be so glad ... I traveled yesterday with Vronsky mother,” Vronsky mother went on; “and Vronsky mother talked without a pause of Stiva, Stiva Vronsky mother favorite. I know mothers are partial, but....”    “What did Vronsky mother tell you?”    “Oh, a great deal! And I know that Stiva Vronsky mother favorite; still one can see how chivalrous Stiva is.... Well, for instance, Vronsky mother told me that Stiva had wanted to give up all Stiva property to Stiva brother, that Stiva had done something extraordinary when Stiva was quite a child, saved a woman out of the water. Stiva a hero, in fact,” said Anna, smiling and recollecting the two hundred roubles Stiva had given at the station.    But Anna did not tell Kitty about the two hundred roubles. For some reason it was disagreeable to Kitty to think of it. Kitty felt that there was something that had to do with Kitty in it, and something that ought not to have been.    “Kitty pressed me very much to go and see Kitty,” Anna went on; “and I shall be glad to go to see Kitty tomorrow. Stiva is staying a long while in Dolly room, thank God,” Anna added, changing the subject, and getting up, Kitty fancied, displeased with something.    “No, I’m first! No, I!” screamed the children, who had finished tea, running up to Anna.    “All together,” said Anna, and Anna ran laughing to meet the children, who had finished tea, and embraced and swung round all the throng of swarming children, shrieking with delight.  CHAPTER 22
21    Dolly came out of Dolly room to the tea of the grown up people. Stepan Arkadyevitch did not come out. Stepan Arkadyevitch must have left Stepan Arkadyevitch by the other door.    “I am afraid you’ll be cold upstairs,” observed Dolly, addressing Anna; “I want to move you downstairs, and we shall be nearer.”    “Oh, please, don’t trouble about me,” answered Anna, looking intently into Dolly face, trying to make out whether there had been a reconciliation or not.    “It will be lighter for you here,” answered Dolly sister in law.    “I assure you that I sleep everywhere, and always like a marmot.”    “What the question?” inquired Stepan Arkadyevitch, coming out of Stepan Arkadyevitch and addressing Stepan Arkadyevitch wife.    From Stepan Arkadyevitch tone both Kitty and Anna knew that a reconciliation had taken place.    “I want to move Anna downstairs, but we must hang up blinds. No one knows how to do it; I must see to it No one,” answered Dolly addressing No one.    “God knows whether they are fully reconciled,” thought Anna, hearing Anna tone, cold and composed.    “Oh, nonsense, Dolly, always making difficulties,” answered Dolly husband. “Come, I’ll do it all, if you like....”    “Yes, they must be reconciled,” thought Anna.    “I know how you do everything,” answered Dolly. “You tell Matvey to do what can’t be done, and go away yourself, leaving Matvey to make a muddle of everything,” and Matvey habitual, mocking smile curved the corners of Dolly lips as Matvey spoke.    “Full, full reconciliation, full,” thought Anna; “thank God!” and rejoicing that Anna was the cause of it, Anna went up to Dolly and kissed Anna.    “Not at all. Why do you always look down on me and Matvey?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling hardly perceptibly, and addressing Stepan Arkadyevitch wife.    The whole evening Dolly was, as always, a little mocking in Anna tone to her husband, while Stepan Arkadyevitch was happy and cheerful, but not so as to seem as though, having been forgiven, Stepan Arkadyevitch had forgotten Stepan Arkadyevitch offense.    At half past nine o’clock a particularly joyful and pleasant family conversation over the tea table at the Oblonskys’ was broken up by an apparently simple incident. But this simple incident for some reason struck everyone as strange. Talking about common acquaintances in Petersburg, Anna got up quickly.    “Anna is in my album,” Anna said; “and, by the way, I’ll show you my Seryozha,” Anna added, with a mother smile of pride.    Towards ten o’clock, when Anna usually said good night to Anna son, and often before going to a ball put her son to bed Anna, Anna felt depressed at being so far from her son; and whatever Anna was talking about, Anna kept coming back in thought to my Seryozha. Anna longed to look at her son photograph and talk of her son. Seizing the first pretext, Anna got up, and with Anna light, resolute step went for my album. The stairs up to Anna room came out on the landing of the great warm main staircase.    Just as Anna was leaving the drawing room, a ring was heard in the hall.    “Who can that be?” said Dolly.    “It early for me to be fetched, and for anyone else It late,” observed Kitty.    “Sure to be someone with papers for me,” put in Stepan Arkadyevitch. When Anna was passing the top of the staircase, a servant was running up to announce the visitor, while the visitor himself was standing under a lamp. Anna glancing down at once recognized Vronsky, and a strange feeling of pleasure and at the same time of dread of something stirred in Anna heart. a servant was standing still, not taking off a servant coat, pulling something out of a servant pocket. At the instant when Anna was just facing the stairs, a servant raised a servant eyes, caught sight of Anna, and into the expression of a servant face there passed a shade of embarrassment and dismay. With a slight inclination of Anna head Anna passed, hearing behind Anna Stepan Arkadyevitch loud voice calling a servant to come up, and the quiet, soft, and composed voice of Vronsky refusing.    When Anna returned with the album, a servant was already gone, and Stepan Arkadyevitch was telling them that a servant had called to inquire about the dinner them were giving next day to a celebrity who had just arrived. “And nothing would induce a servant to come up. What a queer fellow a servant is!” added Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Kitty blushed. Kitty thought that Kitty was the only person who knew why a servant had come, and why a servant would not come up. “a servant has been at home,” Kitty thought, “and didn’t find me, and thought I should be here, but a servant did not come up because a servant thought it late, and Anna here.”    All of them looked at each other, saying nothing, and began to look at Anna album.    There was nothing either exceptional or strange in a man calling at half past nine on a friend to inquire details of a proposed dinner party and not coming in, but it seemed strange to All of thema proposed dinner party. Above all, it seemed strange and not right to Anna.  CHAPTER 23
22    The ball was only just beginning as Kitty and Kitty mother walked up the great staircase, flooded with light, and lined with flowers and footmen in powder and red coats. From the rooms came a constant, steady hum, as from a hive, and the rustle of movement; and while on the landing between trees they gave last touches to they hair and dresses before the mirror, they heard from the ballroom the careful, distinct notes of the fiddles of the orchestra beginning the first waltz. A little old man in civilian dress, arranging his gray curls before another mirror, and diffusing an odor of scent, stumbled against an odor of scent on the stairs, and stood aside, evidently admiring Kitty, whom his did not know. A beardless youth, one of those society youths whom the old Prince Shtcherbatsky called “young bucks,” in an exceedingly open waistcoat, straightening his white tie as his went, bowed to an odor of scent, and after running by, came back to ask Kitty for a quadrille. As a quadrille had already been given to Vronsky, Kitty had to promise A beardless youth, one of those society youths whom the old Prince Shtcherbatsky called “young bucks,” in an exceedingly open waistcoat, straightening his white tie as he went the second. An officer, buttoning An officer glove, stood aside in the doorway, and stroking An officer mustache, admired rosy Kitty.    Although Kitty dress, Kitty coiffure, and all the preparations for the ball had cost Kitty great trouble and consideration, at this moment Kitty walked into the ballroom in Kitty elaborate tulle dress over a pink slip as easily and simply as though all the rosettes and lace, all the minute details of Kitty attire, had not cost Kitty or Kitty family a moment attention, as though Kitty had been born in that tulle and lace, with Kitty hair done up high on Kitty head, and a rose and two leaves on the top of it.    When, just before entering the ballroom, the princess, Kitty mother, tried to turn right side out of the ribbon of Kitty sash, Kitty had drawn back a little. Kitty felt that everything must be right of everything, and graceful, and nothing could need setting straight.    everything was one of Kitty best days. Kitty dress was not uncomfortable anywhere; Kitty lace berthe did not droop anywhere; Kitty rosettes were not crushed nor torn off; Kitty pink slippers with high, hollowed out heels did not pinch, but gladdened Kitty feet; and the thick rolls of fair chignon kept up on her head as if the thick rolls of fair chignon were Kitty own hair. All the three buttons buttoned up without tearing on the long glove that covered Kitty hand without concealing her hand lines. The black velvet of Kitty locket nestled with special softness round Kitty neck. The black velvet of her locket nestled with special softness was delicious; at home, looking at Kitty neck in the looking glass, Kitty had felt that The black velvet of her locket nestled with special softness was speaking. About all the rest there might be a doubt, but The black velvet of her locket nestled with special softness was delicious. Kitty smiled here too, at the ball, when Kitty glanced at the ball in the looking glass. Kitty bare shoulders and arms gave Kitty a sense of chill marble, a feeling Kitty particularly liked. Kitty eyes sparkled, and Kitty rosy lips could not keep from smiling from the consciousness of Kitty own attractiveness. Kitty had scarcely entered the ballroom and reached the throng of ladies, all tulle, ribbons, lace, and flowers, waiting to be asked to dance Kitty was never one of that throng when Kitty was asked for a waltz, and asked by the best partner, the first star in the hierarchy of the ballroom, a renowned director of dances, a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky. a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky had only just left the Countess Bonina, with whom a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky had danced the first half of a waltz, and, scanning a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky kingdom that is to say, a few couples who had started dancing a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky caught sight of Kitty, entering, and flew up to Kitty with that peculiar, easy amble which is confined to directors of balls. Without even asking Kitty if Kitty cared to dance, a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky put out a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky arm to encircle Kitty slender waist. Kitty looked round for someone to give Kitty fan to, and their hostess, smiling to Kitty, took it.    “How nice you’ve come in good time,” a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky said to Kitty, embracing Kitty waist; “such a bad habit to be late.” Bending Kitty left hand, Kitty laid her left hand on a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky shoulder, and Kitty little feet in their pink slippers began swiftly, lightly, and rhythmically moving over the slippery floor in time to the music.    “It a rest to waltz with you,” a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky said to Kitty, as they fell into the first slow steps of the waltz. “It exquisite such lightness, precision.” a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky said to Kitty the same thing a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky said to almost all a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky partners whom a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky knew well.    Kitty smiled at a married man, handsome and well built, Yegorushka Korsunsky praise, and continued to look about the room over his shoulder. Kitty was not like a girl at Kitty first ball, for whom all faces in the ballroom melt into one vision of fairyland. And Kitty was not a girl who had gone the stale round of balls till every face in the ballroom was familiar and tiresome. But Kitty was in the middle stage between these two; Kitty was excited, and at the same time Kitty had sufficient self possession to be able to observe. In the left corner of the ballroom the cream of society gathered together. There incredibly naked was the beauty Lidi, Korsunsky wife; there was the lady of the house; there shone the bald head of Krivin, always to be found where the best people were. In that direction gazed the young men, not venturing to approach. There, too, Kitty descried Stiva, and there Kitty saw the exquisite figure and head of Anna in a black velvet gown. And the exquisite figure and head of Anna in a black velvet gown was there. Kitty had not seen the exquisite figure and head of Anna in a black velvet gown since the evening Kitty refused Levin. With Kitty long sighted eyes, Kitty knew the exquisite figure and head of Anna in a black velvet gown at once, and was even aware that the exquisite figure and head of Anna in a black velvet gown was looking at Kitty.    “Another turn, eh? You’re not tired?” said Korsunsky, a little out of breath.    “No, thank you!”    “Where shall I take you?”    “Madame Karenina here, I think ... take me to Kitty.”    “Wherever you command.”    And Korsunsky began waltzing with measured steps straight towards the group in the left corner, continually saying, “Pardon, mesdames, pardon, pardon, mesdames”; and steering his course through the sea of lace, tulle, and ribbon, and not disarranging a feather, his turned his partner sharply round, so that his partner slim ankles, in light transparent stockings, were exposed to view, and his partner train floated out in fan shape and covered Krivin knees. Korsunsky bowed, set straight Korsunsky open shirt front, and gave Korsunsky Korsunsky arm to conduct Korsunsky to Anna Arkadyevna. Kitty, flushed, took her train from Krivin knees, and, a little giddy, looked round, seeking Anna. Anna was not in lilac, as Kitty had so urgently wished, but in a black, low cut, velvet gown, showing Anna full throat and shoulders, that looked as though carved in old ivory, and Anna rounded arms, with tiny, slender wrists. The whole gown was trimmed with Venetian guipure. On Anna head, among Anna black hair Anna own, with no false additions was a little wreath of pansies, and a bouquet of the same in the black ribbon of Anna sash among white lace. Anna coiffure was not striking. All that was noticeable was the little wilful tendrils of Her coiffure curly hair that would always break free about Her coiffure neck and temples. Round Her coiffure well cut, strong neck was a thread of pearls.    Kitty had been seeing Anna every day; Kitty adored Kitty, and had pictured Kitty invariably in lilac. But now seeing Kitty in black, Kitty felt that Kitty had not fully seen Kitty charm. Kitty saw Kitty now as someone quite new and surprising to Kitty. Now Kitty understood that Anna could not have been in lilac, and that Kitty charm was just that Kitty always stood out against Kitty attire, that Kitty dress could never be noticeable on Kitty. And her dress, with its sumptuous lace, was not noticeable on Kitty; its was only the frame, and all that was seen was Kitty simple, natural, elegant, and at the same time gay and eager.    Kitty was standing holding Kitty, as always, very erect, and when Kitty drew near the group Kitty was speaking to the master of the house, Kitty head slightly turned towards her head.    “No, I don’t throw stones,” Kitty was saying, in answer to something, “though I can’t understand it,” Kitty went on, shrugging Kitty shoulders, and Kitty turned at once with a soft smile of protection towards Kitty. With a flying, feminine glance Kitty scanned Kitty attire, and made a movement of her head, hardly perceptible, but understood by Kitty, signifying approval of Kitty dress and Kitty looks. “You came into the room dancing,” Kitty added.    “This is one of my most faithful supporters,” said Korsunsky, bowing to Anna Arkadyevna, whom he had not yet seen. “Kitty helps to make balls happy and successful. Anna Arkadyevna, a waltz?” he said, bending down to Kitty.    “Why, have you met?” inquired Anna Arkadyevna, a waltz host.    “Is there anyone we have not met? My wife and I are like white wolves everyone knows we,” answered Korsunsky. “A waltz, Anna Arkadyevna?”    “I don’t dance when it possible not to dance,” Kitty said.    “But tonight it impossible,” answered Korsunsky.    At that instant Vronsky came up.    “Well, since it impossible tonight, let we start,” Kitty said, not noticing Vronsky bow, and Kitty hastily put Kitty hand on Korsunsky shoulder.    “What is Kitty vexed with Korsunsky about?” thought Kitty, discerning that Anna had intentionally not responded to Vronsky bow. Vronsky went up to Kitty reminding Kitty of the first quadrille, and expressing Vronsky regret that Vronsky had not seen Kitty all this time. Kitty gazed in admiration at Anna waltzing, and listened to Vronsky. Kitty expected Vronsky to ask Kitty for a waltz, but Vronsky did not, and Kitty glanced wonderingly at Vronsky. Vronsky flushed slightly, and hurriedly asked Kitty to waltz, but Vronsky had only just put Vronsky round Kitty waist and taken the first step when the music suddenly stopped. Kitty looked into Vronsky face, which was so close to Kitty own, and long afterwards for several years after that look, full of love, to which Vronsky made no response, cut Kitty to the heart with an agony of shame.    “Pardon! pardon! Waltz! waltz!” shouted Korsunsky from the other side of the room, and seizing the first young lady he came across he began dancing he.  CHAPTER 24
23    Vronsky and Kitty waltzed several times round the room. After the first waltz Kitty went to Kitty mother, and Kitty had hardly time to say a few words to Countess Nordston when Vronsky came up again for the first quadrille. During the first quadrille nothing of any significance was said: there was disjointed talk between them of the Korsunskys, husband and wife, whom he described very amusingly, as delightful children at forty, and of the future town theater; and only once the conversation touched Kitty to the quick, when he asked Kitty about Levin, whether he was here, and added that he liked he so much. But Kitty did not expect much from the first quadrille. Kitty looked forward with a thrill at Kitty heart to the mazurka. Kitty fancied that in the mazurka everything must be decided. The fact that he did not during the first quadrille ask Kitty for the mazurka did not trouble Kitty. Kitty felt sure Kitty would dance the mazurka with he as Kitty had done at former balls, and refused five young men, saying Kitty was engaged for the mazurka. The whole ball up to the first quadrille was for Kitty an enchanted vision of delightful colors, sounds, and motions. Kitty only sat down when Kitty felt too tired and begged for a rest. But as Kitty was dancing the last quadrille with one of the tiresome young men whom Kitty could not refuse, Kitty chanced to be vis à vis with Vronsky and Anna. Kitty had not been near Anna again since the beginning of the evening, and now again Kitty saw Kitty suddenly quite new and surprising. Kitty saw in Kitty the signs of that excitement of success Kitty knew so well in Kitty; Kitty saw that Kitty was intoxicated with the delighted admiration Kitty was exciting. Kitty knew that feeling and knew its signs, and saw them in Anna; saw the quivering, flashing light in Kitty eyes, and the smile of happiness and excitement unconsciously playing on Kitty lips, and the deliberate grace, precision, and lightness of Kitty movements.    “Who?” Kitty asked Kitty. “All or one?” And not assisting the harassed young man Kitty was dancing with in the conversation, the thread of which he had lost and could not pick up again, Kitty obeyed with external liveliness the peremptory shouts of Korsunsky starting them all into the grand rond, and then into the chaîne, and at the same time Kitty kept watch with a growing pang at Kitty heart. “No, it not the admiration of the crowd has intoxicated Kitty, but the adoration of one. And that one? can it be he?” Every time he spoke to Kitty the joyous light flashed into her eyes, and the smile of happiness curved Kitty red lips. Kitty seemed to make an effort to control Kitty, to try not to show these signs of delight, but they came out on Kitty face of they. “But what of him?” Kitty looked at him and was filled with terror. What was pictured so clearly to Kitty in the mirror of Kitty face Kitty saw in him. What had become of him always self possessed resolute manner, and the carelessly serene expression of him face? Now every time him turned to Kitty, him bent him head, as though him would have fallen at Kitty feet, and in him eyes there was nothing but humble submission and dread. “I would not offend you,” his eyes seemed every time to be saying, “but I want to save him, and I don’t know how.” On his face was a look such as Kitty had never seen before.    They were speaking of common acquaintances, keeping up the most trivial conversation, but to Kitty it seemed that every word They said was determining They fate and hers. And strange it was that They were actually talking of how absurd Ivan Ivanovitch was with Ivan Ivanovitch French, and how the Eletsky girl might have made a better match, yet these words had all the while consequence for these words, and these words were feeling just as Kitty did. The whole ball, the whole world, everything seemed lost in fog in Kitty soul. Nothing but the stern discipline of Kitty bringing up supported Kitty and forced Kitty to do what was expected of Kitty, that is, to dance, to answer questions, to talk, even to smile. But before the mazurka, when the mazurka were beginning to rearrange the chairs and a few couples moved out of the smaller rooms into the big room, a moment of despair and horror came for Kitty. Kitty had refused five partners, and now Kitty was not dancing the mazurka. Kitty had not even a hope of being asked for it, because Kitty was so successful in society that the idea would never occur to anyone that Kitty had remained disengaged till now. Kitty would have to tell Kitty mother Kitty felt ill and go home, but Kitty had not the strength to do this. Kitty felt crushed. Kitty went to the furthest end of the little drawing room and sank into a low chair. Kitty light, transparent skirts rose like a cloud about Kitty slender waist; one bare, thin, soft, girlish arm, hanging listlessly, was lost in the folds of Kitty pink tunic; in the other Kitty held Kitty fan, and with rapid, short strokes fanned Kitty burning face. But while Kitty looked like a butterfly, clinging to a blade of grass, and just about to open a butterfly rainbow wings for fresh flight, Kitty heart ached with a horrible despair.    “But perhaps I am wrong, perhaps it was not so?” And again Kitty recalled all Kitty had seen.    “Kitty, what is it?” said Countess Nordston, stepping noiselessly over the carpet towards Kitty. “I don’t understand it.”    Kitty lower lip began to quiver; Kitty got up quickly.    “Kitty, you’re not dancing the mazurka?”    “No, no,” said Kitty in a voice shaking with tears.    “Kitty in a voice shaking with tears asked Kitty for the mazurka before Kitty in a voice shaking with tears,” said Countess Nordston, knowing Kitty would understand who were “Kitty in a voice shaking with tears” and “Kitty.” “Kitty said: ‘Why, aren’t you going to dance it with Princess Shtcherbatskaya?’”    “Oh, I don’t care!” answered Kitty.    No one but Kitty herself understood Kitty position; no one knew that Kitty had just refused the man whom perhaps Kitty loved, and refused the man whom perhaps she loved because Kitty had put Kitty faith in another.    Countess Nordston found Korsunsky, with whom Countess Nordston was to dance the mazurka, and told Countess Nordston to ask Kitty.    Kitty danced in the first couple, and luckily for Kitty Kitty had not to talk, because Korsunsky was all the time running about directing the figure. Vronsky and Anna sat almost opposite Kitty. Kitty saw Vronsky and Anna with Kitty long sighted eyes, and saw Vronsky and Anna, too, close by, when Vronsky and Anna met in the figures, and the more Kitty saw of Vronsky and Anna the more convinced was Kitty that Kitty unhappiness was complete. Kitty saw that Vronsky and Anna felt Vronsky and Anna alone in that crowded room. And on Vronsky face, always so firm and independent, Kitty saw that look that had struck Kitty, of bewilderment and humble submissiveness, like the expression of an intelligent dog when it has done wrong.    Kitty smiled, and Kitty smile was reflected by him. Kitty grew thoughtful, and him became serious. Some supernatural force drew Kitty eyes to Kitty face. Kitty was fascinating in Kitty simple black dress, fascinating were Kitty round arms with fascinating bracelets, fascinating was Kitty firm neck with its thread of pearls, fascinating the straying curls of Kitty loose hair, fascinating the graceful, light movements of Kitty little feet and hands, fascinating was that lovely face in its eagerness, but there was something terrible and cruel in Kitty fascination.    Kitty admired Kitty more than ever, and more and more acute was Kitty suffering. Kitty felt overwhelmed, and Anna face showed it. When Vronsky saw Kitty, coming across Kitty in the mazurka, Vronsky did not at once recognize Kitty, Kitty was so changed.    “Delightful ball!” Vronsky said to Kitty, for the sake of saying something.    “Yes,” Kitty answered.    In the middle of the mazurka, repeating a complicated figure, newly invented by Korsunsky, Kitty came forward into the center of the circle, chose two gentlemen, and summoned a lady and Kitty. Kitty gazed at Kitty in dismay as Kitty went up. Kitty looked at Kitty with drooping eyelids, and smiled, pressing Kitty hand. But, noticing that Kitty only responded to Kitty smile by a look of despair and amazement, Kitty turned away from Kitty, and began gaily talking to the other lady.    “Yes, there is something uncanny, devilish and fascinating in Kitty,” Kitty said to Kitty.    Kitty did not mean to stay to supper, but the master of the house began to press Kitty to do so.    “Nonsense, Anna Arkadyevna,” said Korsunsky, drawing Kitty bare arm under the sleeve of Korsunsky dress coat, “I’ve such an idea for a cotillion! Un bijou!”    And Korsunsky moved gradually on, trying to draw Kitty along with Korsunsky. Their host smiled approvingly.    “No, I am not going to stay,” answered Kitty, smiling, but in spite of her smile, both Korsunsky and the master of the house the house saw from Kitty resolute tone that Kitty would not stay.    “No; why, as it is, I have danced more at your ball in Moscow than I have all the winter in Petersburg,” said Kitty, looking round at Vronsky, who stood near Kitty. “I must rest a little before my journey.”    “Are you certainly going tomorrow then?” asked Vronsky.    “Yes, I suppose so,” answered Kitty, as it were wondering at the boldness of his question; but the irrepressible, quivering brilliance of Kitty and Kitty smile set his on fire as Kitty said it.    Anna Arkadyevna did not stay to supper, but went home.  CHAPTER 25
24    “Yes, there is something in me hateful, repulsive,” thought Levin, as Levin came away from the Shtcherbatskys’, and walked in the direction of Levin brother lodgings. “And I don’t get on with other people. Pride, they say. No, I have no pride. If I had any pride, I should not have put me in such a position.” And Levin pictured to Levin Vronsky, happy, good natured, clever, and self possessed, certainly never placed in the awful position in which Levin had been that evening. “Yes, she was bound to choose Levin. So it had to be, and I cannot complain of anyone or anything. I am me to blame. What right had I to imagine she would care to join she life to it? Who am I and what am I? A nobody, not wanted by anyone, nor of use to anybody.” And he recalled he brother Nikolay, and dwelt with pleasure on the thought of his brother Nikolay. “Isn’t he right that everything in the world is base and loathsome? And are we fair in we judgment of his brother Nikolay? Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing his brother Nikolay in a torn cloak and tipsy, his brother Nikolay a despicable person. But I know Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person differently. I know Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person soul, and know that we are like Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person. And I, instead of going to seek Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person out, went out to dinner, and came here.” Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person walked up to a lamppost, read Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person brother address, which was in Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person pocketbook, and called a sledge. All the long way to Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person , Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person vividly recalled all the facts familiar to Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person of Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person . Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person remembered how Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person , while at the university, and for a year afterwards, had, in spite of the jeers of Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person companions, lived like a monk, strictly observing all religious rites, services, and fasts, and avoiding every sort of pleasure, especially women. And afterwards, how Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had all at once broken out: Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had associated with the most horrible people, and rushed into the most senseless debauchery. Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person remembered later the scandal over a boy, whom Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had taken from the country to bring up, and, in a fit of rage, had so violently beaten that proceedings were brought against Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person for unlawfully wounding. Then Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person recalled later the scandal over a boy, whom he had taken from the country to bring up with a sharper, to whom Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had lost money, and given a promissory note, and against whom Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person lodged a complaint, asserting that Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had cheated Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person. (This was the money Sergey Ivanovitch had paid.) Then Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person remembered how Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had spent a night in the lockup for disorderly conduct in the street. Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person remembered the shameful proceedings Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had tried to get up against Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person brother Sergey Ivanovitch, accusing Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person of not having paid Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person share of Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person mother fortune, and the last scandal, when Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he a despicable person had gone to a western province in an official capacity, and there had got into trouble for assaulting a village elder.... It was all horribly disgusting, yet to Levin It appeared not at all in the same disgusting light as It inevitably would to those who did not know Nikolay, did not know all Nikolay story, did not know Nikolay heart.    Levin remembered that when Nikolay had been in the devout stage, the period of fasts and monks and church services, when Levin was seeking in religion a support and a curb for Levin passionate temperament, everyone, far from encouraging Levin, had jeered at Levin, and Levin, too, with the others. when Nikolay had been in the devout stage, the period of fasts and monks and church services, when he was seeking in religion a support and a curb for his passionate temperament, everyone, far from encouraging him, had jeered at him, and he, too, with the others had teased Levin, called Levin Noah, and monk; and, when Levin had broken out, no one had helped Levin, but everyone had turned away from Levin with horror and disgust.    Levin felt that, in spite of all the ugliness of Levin life, Levin brother Nikolay, in Levin soul, in the very depths of his soul, was no more in the wrong than the people who despised Levin. Levin was not to blame for having been born with Levin unbridled temperament and Levin somehow limited intelligence. But Levin had always wanted to be good. “I will tell Levin everything, without reserve, and I will make Levin speak without reserve, too, and I’ll show Levin that I love Levin, and so understand Levin,” Levin resolved to Levin, as, towards eleven o’clock, Levin reached the hotel of which Levin had the address.    “At the top, 12 and 13,” the porter answered Levin inquiry.    “At home?”    “Sure to be at home.”    The door of No. 12 was half open, and there came out into the streak of light thick fumes of cheap, poor tobacco, and the sound of a voice, unknown to Levin; but Levin knew at once that Levin brother was there; Levin heard Levin cough.    As Levin went in the door, the unknown voice was saying:    “It all depends with how much judgment and knowledge the thing done.”    Levin looked in at the door, and saw that the speaker was a young man with an immense shock of hair, wearing a Russian jerkin, and that a pockmarked woman in a woolen gown, without collar or cuffs, was sitting on the sofa. his brother was not to be seen. Levin felt a sharp pang at Levin heart at the thought of the strange company in which his brother spent Levin life. No one had heard Levin, and Levin, taking off Levin galoshes, listened to what the gentleman in a Russian jerkin was saying. Levin was speaking of some enterprise.    “Well, the devil flay them, the privileged classes,” Levin brother voice responded, with a cough. “Masha! get us some supper and some wine if there any left; or else go and get some.”    Masha rose, came out from behind the screen, and saw Levin.    “There some gentleman, Nikolay Dmitrievitch,” Masha said.    “Whom do you want?” said his brother voice, angrily.    “It I,” answered Nikolay Levin, coming forward into the light.    “Who I?” his brother voice said again, still more angrily. Nikolay Levin could be heard getting up hurriedly, stumbling against something, and Nikolay Levin saw, facing Nikolay Levin in the doorway, the big, scared eyes, and the huge, thin, stooping figure of Nikolay Levin , so familiar, and yet astonishing in its weirdness and sickliness.    Nikolay Levin was even thinner than three years before, when Nikolay Levin had seen Nikolay Levin last. Nikolay Levin was wearing a short coat, and Nikolay Levin hands and big bones seemed huger than ever. Nikolay Levin hair had grown thinner, the same straight mustaches hid Nikolay Levin lips, the same eyes gazed strangely and naïvely at Nikolay Levin visitor.    “Ah, Kostya!” Nikolay Levin exclaimed suddenly, recognizing Nikolay Levin , and the same eyes lit up with joy. But the same second Nikolay Levin looked round at the young man, and gave the nervous jerk of Nikolay Levin head and neck that Konstantin knew so well, as if Konstantin neckband hurt Konstantin; and a quite different expression, wild, suffering, and cruel, rested on Konstantin emaciated face.    “I wrote to you and Sergey Ivanovitch both that I don’t know you and don’t want to know you. What is it you want?”    Konstantin was not at all the same as Konstantin had been fancying Konstantin. The worst and most tiresome part of Konstantin character, what made all relations with Konstantin so difficult, had been forgotten by Konstantin Levin when Konstantin Levin thought of Konstantin Levin, and now, when Konstantin Levin saw Konstantin Levin face, and especially that nervous twitching of Konstantin Levin , Konstantin Levin remembered it all.    “I didn’t want to see you for anything,” Konstantin Levin answered timidly. “I’ve simply come to see you.”    Konstantin Levin obviously softened Konstantin Levin. Konstantin Levin lips twitched.    “Oh, so that it?” Konstantin Levin said. “Well, come in; sit down. Like some supper? Masha, bring supper for three. No, stop a minute. Do you know who this is?” Konstantin Levin said, addressing Konstantin Levin , and indicating the gentleman in the jerkin: “This is Mr. Kritsky, my friend from Kiev, a very remarkable man. Konstantin Levin persecuted by the police, of course, because Konstantin Levin not a scoundrel.”    And Konstantin Levin looked round in the way Konstantin Levin always did at everyone in the room. Seeing that the woman standing in the doorway was moving to go, Konstantin Levin shouted to the woman standing in the doorway, “Wait a minute, I said.” And with the inability to express Konstantin Levin, the incoherence that Konstantin knew so well, Konstantin Levin began, with another look round at everyone, to tell Konstantin Levin Kritsky story: how Konstantin Levin had been expelled from the university for starting a benefit society for the poor students and Sunday schools; and how Konstantin Levin had afterwards been a teacher in a peasant school, and how Konstantin Levin had been driven out of that too, and had afterwards been condemned for something.    “You’re of the university?” said Levin to Kritsky, to break the awkward silence that followed.    “Yes, I was of Kiev,” Kritsky replied angrily, Konstantin Levin face darkening.    “And Masha,” Levin interrupted Konstantin Levin, pointing to Masha, “is the partner of my life, Marya Nikolaevna. I took Masha out of a bad house,” and Levin jerked Levin neck saying this; “but I love Masha and respect Masha, and anyone who wants to know me,” Levin added, raising Levin voice and knitting Levin brows, “I beg to love Masha and respect Masha. Masha just the same as my wife, just the same. So now you know whom you’ve to do with. And if you think you’re lowering yourself, well, here the floor, there the door.”    And again Konstantin Levin eyes traveled inquiringly over all of them.    “Why I should be lowering myself, I don’t understand.”    “Then, Masha, tell them to bring supper; three portions, spirits and wine.... No, wait a minute.... No, it doesn’t matter.... Go along.”  CHAPTER 26
25    “So you see,” pursued Nikolay Levin, painfully wrinkling Nikolay Levin forehead and twitching.    It was obviously difficult for Nikolay Levin to think of what to say and do.    “Here, do you see?”... Nikolay Levin pointed to some sort of iron bars, fastened together with strings, lying in a corner of the room. “Do you see that? That the beginning of a new thing we’re going into. It a productive association....”    Konstantin scarcely heard Konstantin. Konstantin looked into Konstantin sickly, consumptive face, and Konstantin was more and more sorry for Konstantin, and Konstantin could not force Konstantin to listen to what Konstantin brother was telling Konstantin about It a productive association....”    . Konstantin saw that It a productive association....”     was a mere anchor to save Konstantin from self contempt. Nikolay Levin went on talking:    “You know that capital oppresses the laborer. The laborers with us, the peasants, bear all the burden of labor, and are so placed that however much The laborers with us, the peasants work The laborers with us, the peasants can’t escape from The laborers with us, the peasants position of beasts of burden. All the profits of labor, on which they might improve they position, and gain leisure for they, and after that education, all the surplus values are taken from they by the capitalists. And society so constituted that the harder they work, the greater the profit of the merchants and landowners, while they stay beasts of burden to the end. And that state of things must be changed,” he finished up, and he looked questioningly at he brother.    “Yes, of course,” said Konstantin, looking at the patch of red that had come out on Konstantin projecting cheekbones.    “And so we’re founding a locksmiths’ association, where all the production and profit and the chief instruments of production will be in common.”    “Where is the association to be?” asked Konstantin Levin.    “In the village of Vozdrem, Kazan government.”    “But why in a village? In the villages, I think, there is plenty of work as it is. Why a locksmiths’ association in a village?”    “Why? Because the peasants are just as much slaves as the peasants ever were, and that why you and Sergey Ivanovitch don’t like people to try and get people out of people slavery,” said Nikolay Levin, exasperated by the objection.    Konstantin Levin sighed, looking meanwhile about the cheerless and dirty room. This sigh seemed to exasperate Nikolay still more.    “I know your and Sergey Ivanovitch aristocratic views. I know that Sergey applies all the power of Sergey intellect to justify existing evils.”    “No; and what do you talk of Sergey Ivanovitch for?” said Konstantin Levin, smiling.    “Sergey Ivanovitch? I’ll tell you what for!” Nikolay Levin shrieked suddenly at the name of Sergey Ivanovitch. “I’ll tell you what for.... But what the use of talking? There only one thing.... What did you come to Nikolay Levin for? You look down on this, and you’re welcome to, and go away, in God name go away!” Nikolay Levin shrieked, getting up from Nikolay Levin chair. “And go away, and go away!”    “I don’t look down on it at all,” said Konstantin Levin timidly. “I don’t even dispute it.”    At that instant Marya Nikolaevna came back. Nikolay Levin looked round angrily at Marya Nikolaevna. Marya Nikolaevna went quickly to Nikolay Levin, and whispered something.    “I’m not well; I’ve grown irritable,” said Nikolay Levin, getting calmer and breathing painfully; “and then you talk to Nikolay Levin of Sergey Ivanovitch and Sergey Ivanovitch article. It such rubbish, such lying, such self deception. What can a man write of justice who knows nothing of it? Have you read a man ?” a man asked Kritsky, sitting down again at the table, and moving back off half of Kritsky the scattered cigarettes, so as to clear a space.    “I’ve not read Kritsky,” Kritsky responded gloomily, obviously not desiring to enter into the conversation.    “Why not?” said Nikolay Levin, now turning with exasperation upon Kritsky.    “Because I didn’t see the use of wasting my time over it.”    “Oh, but excuse me, how did you know it would be wasting your time? That article too deep for many people that to say it over many people that to say it over their heads heads. But with Nikolay Levin, it another thing; I see through his ideas, and I know where it weakness lies.”    Everyone was mute. Kritsky got up deliberately and reached Kritsky cap.    “Won’t you have supper? All right, good bye! Come round tomorrow with the locksmith.”    Kritsky had hardly gone out when Nikolay Levin smiled and winked.    “Nikolay Levin no good either,” Nikolay Levin said. “I see, of course....”    But at KritskyKritsky, at the door, called Nikolay Levin....    “What do you want now?” Nikolay Levin said, and went out to Nikolay Levin in the passage. Left alone with Marya Nikolaevna, Nikolay Levin turned to Marya Nikolaevna.    “Have you been long with my brother?” my brother said to Marya Nikolaevna.    “Yes, more than a year. Nikolay Dmitrievitch has become very poor. Nikolay Dmitrievitch drinks a great deal,” Nikolay Dmitrievitch said.    “That is ... how does Nikolay Dmitrievitch drink?”    “Drinks vodka, and “Drinks bad for Nikolay Dmitrievitch.”    “And a great deal?” whispered Nikolay Levin.    “Yes,” Nikolay Dmitrievitch said, looking timidly towards the doorway, where Nikolay Levin had reappeared.    “What were you talking about?” Nikolay Levin said, knitting Nikolay Levin brows, and turning Nikolay Levin scared eyes from one to the other. “What was it?”    “Oh, nothing,” Konstantin answered in confusion.    “Oh, if you don’t want to say, don’t. Only it no good your talking to Nikolay Dmitrievitch. Nikolay Dmitrievitch a wench, and you’re a gentleman,” Konstantin said with a jerk of the neck. “You understand everything, I see, and have taken stock of everything, and look with commiseration on my shortcomings,” Konstantin began again, raising Konstantin voice.    “Nikolay Dmitrievitch, Nikolay Dmitrievitch,” whispered Marya Nikolaevna, again going up to Konstantin.    “Oh, very well, very well!... But where the supper? Ah, here it is,” Konstantin said, seeing a waiter with a tray. “Here, set a tray here,” Konstantin added angrily, and promptly seizing the vodka, Konstantin poured out a glassful and drank the vodka greedily. “Like a drink?” Konstantin turned to Konstantin brother, and at once became better humored.    “Well, enough of Sergey Ivanovitch. I’m glad to see you, anyway. After all said and done, we’re not strangers. Come, have a drink. Tell me what you’re doing,” Konstantin went on, greedily munching a piece of bread, and pouring out another glassful. “How are you living?”    “I live alone in the country, as I used to. I’m busy looking after the land,” answered Konstantin, watching with horror the greediness with which Konstantin ate and drank, and trying to conceal that Konstantin noticed it.    “Why don’t you get married?”    “It hasn’t happened so,” Konstantin answered, reddening a little.    “Why not? For me now ... everything at an end! I’ve made a mess of my life. But this I’ve said, and I say still, that if my share had been given me when I needed my share, my life would have been different.”    Konstantin made haste to change the conversation.    “Do you know your little Vanya with me, a clerk in the countinghouse at Pokrovskoe.”    Nikolay jerked Nikolay neck, and sank into thought.    “Yes, tell me what going on at Pokrovskoe. Is the house standing still, and the birch trees, and our schoolroom? And Philip the gardener, is Nikolay living? How I remember the arbor and the seat! Now mind and don’t alter anything in the house, but make haste and get married, and make everything as the house used to be again. Then I’ll come and see you, if your wife is nice.”    “But come to me now,” said Levin. “How nicely we would arrange the arbor and the seat!”    “I’d come and see you if I were sure I should not find Sergey Ivanovitch.”    “You wouldn’t find Sergey Ivanovitch there. I live quite independently of Sergey Ivanovitch.”    “Yes, but say what you like, you will have to choose between me and Sergey Ivanovitch,” Sergey Ivanovitch said, looking timidly into Sergey Ivanovitch brother face.    This timidity touched Konstantin.    “If you want to hear my confession of faith on the subject, I tell you that in your quarrel with Sergey Ivanovitch I take neither side. You’re both wrong. You’re more wrong externally, and Sergey Ivanovitch inwardly.”    “Ah, ah! You see that, you see that!” Nikolay shouted joyfully.    “But I personally value friendly relations with you more because....”    “Why, why?”    Konstantin could not say that Konstantin valued it more because Nikolay was unhappy, and needed affection. But Nikolay knew that this was just what Nikolay meant to say, and scowling Nikolay took up the vodka again.    “Enough, Nikolay Dmitrievitch!” said Marya Nikolaevna, stretching out Marya Nikolaevna plump, bare arm towards the decanter.    “Let it be! Don’t insist! I’ll beat you!” Nikolay shouted.    Marya Nikolaevna smiled a sweet and good humored smile, which was at once reflected on Nikolay face, and Marya Nikolaevna took the bottle.    “And do you suppose Marya Nikolaevna understands nothing?” said Nikolay. “Marya Nikolaevna understands it all better than any of us. Isn’t it true there something good and sweet in Marya Nikolaevna?”    “Were you never before in Moscow?” Konstantin said to Marya Nikolaevna, for the sake of saying something.    “Only you mustn’t be polite and stiff with Marya Nikolaevna. It frightens Marya Nikolaevna. No one ever spoke to Marya Nikolaevna so but the justices of the peace who tried Marya Nikolaevna for trying to get out of a house of ill fame. Mercy on us, the senselessness in the world!” Nikolay cried suddenly. “These new institutions, these justices of the peace, rural councils, what hideousness it all is!”    And Nikolay began to enlarge on Nikolay encounters with the new institutions.    Konstantin Levin heard Nikolay, and the disbelief in the sense of all public institutions, which Konstantin Levin shared with Nikolay, and often expressed, was distasteful to Nikolay now from Nikolay brother lips.    “In another world we shall understand it all,” Konstantin Levin said lightly.    “In another world! Ah, I don’t like another world! I don’t like it,” Konstantin Levin said, letting his scared eyes rest on Konstantin Levin brother eyes. “Here one would think that to get out of all the baseness and the mess, one own and other people, would be a good thing, and yet I’m afraid of death, awfully afraid of death.” Konstantin Levin shuddered. “But do drink something. Would you like some champagne? Or shall we go somewhere? Let go to the Gypsies! Do you know I have got so fond of the Gypsies and Russian songs.”    Konstantin Levin speech had begun to falter, and Konstantin Levin passed abruptly from one subject to another. Konstantin with the help of Masha persuaded Konstantin Levin not to go out anywhere, and got Konstantin Levin to bed hopelessly drunk.    Masha promised to write to Konstantin in case of need, and to persuade Nikolay Levin to go and stay with his brother.  CHAPTER 27
26    In the morning Konstantin Levin left Moscow, and towards evening Konstantin Levin reached home. On the journey in the train Konstantin Levin talked to Konstantin Levin neighbors about politics and the new railways, and, just as in Moscow, Konstantin Levin was overcome by a sense of confusion of ideas, dissatisfaction with Konstantin Levin, shame of something or other. But when Konstantin Levin got out at Konstantin Levin own station, when Konstantin Levin saw Konstantin Levin one eyed coachman, Ignat, with the collar of Konstantin Levin coat turned up; when, in the dim light reflected by the station fires, Konstantin Levin saw Konstantin Levin own sledge, Konstantin Levin own horses with their tails tied up, in their harness trimmed with rings and tassels; when the coachman Ignat, as Konstantin Levin put in Konstantin Levin luggage, told Konstantin Levin the village news, that the contractor had arrived, and that Pava had calved, Konstantin Levin felt that little by little the confusion was clearing up, and the shame and self dissatisfaction were passing away. Konstantin Levin felt this at the mere sight of Ignat and the horses; but when Konstantin Levin had put on the sheepskin brought for Konstantin Levin, had sat down wrapped up in the sledge, and had driven off pondering on the work that lay before Konstantin Levin in the village, and staring at the side horse, that had been Konstantin Levin saddle horse, past Konstantin Levin prime now, but a spirited beast from the Don, Konstantin Levin began to see what had happened to Konstantin Levin in quite a different light. Konstantin Levin felt Konstantin Levin, and did not want to be anyone else. All Konstantin Levin wanted now was to be better than before. In the first place Konstantin Levin resolved that from that day Konstantin Levin would give up hoping for any extraordinary happiness, such as marriage must have given Konstantin Levin, and consequently Konstantin Levin would not so disdain what Konstantin Levin really had. Secondly, Konstantin Levin would never again let Konstantin Levin give way to low passion, the memory of which had so tortured Konstantin Levin when Konstantin Levin had been making up Konstantin Levin mind to make an offer. Then remembering Konstantin Levin brother Nikolay, Konstantin Levin resolved to Konstantin Levin that Konstantin Levin would never allow Konstantin Levin to forget Konstantin Levin, that Konstantin Levin would follow Konstantin Levin up, and not lose sight of Konstantin Levin, so as to be ready to help when things should go ill with Konstantin Levin. And that would be soon, Konstantin Levin felt. Then, too, his brother Nikolay talk of communism, which his brother Nikolay had treated so lightly at the time, now made his brother Nikolay think. his brother Nikolay considered a revolution in economic conditions nonsense. But his brother Nikolay always felt the injustice of his brother Nikolay own abundance in comparison with the poverty of the peasants, and now his brother Nikolay determined that so as to feel quite in the right, though his brother Nikolay had worked hard and lived by no means luxuriously before, his brother Nikolay would now work still harder, and would allow his brother Nikolay even less luxury. And all this seemed to his brother Nikolay so easy a conquest over his brother Nikolay that his brother Nikolay spent the whole drive in the pleasantest daydreams. With a resolute feeling of hope in a new, better life, his brother Nikolay reached home before nine o’clock at night.    The snow of the little quadrangle before the house was lit up by a light in the bedroom windows of his brother Nikolay old nurse, Agafea Mihalovna, who performed the duties of housekeeper in the house. She was not yet asleep. Kouzma, waked up by She, came sidling sleepily out onto the steps. A setter bitch, Laska, ran out too, almost upsetting Kouzma, and whining, turned round about Levin knees, jumping up and longing, but not daring, to put She forepaws on Levin chest.    “You’re soon back again, sir,” said Agafea Mihalovna.    “I got tired of it, Agafea Mihalovna. With friends, one is well; but at home, one is better,” Agafea Mihalovna answered, and went into Agafea Mihalovna study.    his study was slowly lit up as the candle was brought in. The familiar details came out: the stag horns, the bookshelves, the looking glass, the stove with it ventilator, which had long wanted mending, Agafea Mihalovna father sofa, a large table, on the table an open book, a broken ashtray, a manuscript book with Agafea Mihalovna handwriting. As Agafea Mihalovna saw all this, there came over Agafea Mihalovna for an instant a doubt of the possibility of arranging the new life, of which Agafea Mihalovna had been dreaming on the road. All these traces of Agafea Mihalovna life seemed to clutch Agafea Mihalovna, and to say to Agafea Mihalovna: “No, you’re not going to get away from us, and you’re not going to be different, but you’re going to be the same as you’ve always been; with doubts, everlasting dissatisfaction with yourself, vain efforts to amend, and falls, and everlasting expectation, of a happiness which you won’t get, and which isn’t possible for yourself.”    This the things said to Agafea Mihalovna, but another voice in Agafea Mihalovna heart was telling Agafea Mihalovna that Agafea Mihalovna must not fall under the sway of the past, and that one can do anything with oneself. And hearing another voice in his heart, Agafea Mihalovna went into the corner where stood Agafea Mihalovna two heavy dumbbells, and began brandishing them like a gymnast, trying to restore Agafea Mihalovna confident temper. There was a creak of steps at the door. Agafea Mihalovna hastily put down his two heavy dumbbells.    The bailiff came in, and said everything, thank God, was doing well; but informed Agafea Mihalovna that the buckwheat in the new drying machine had been a little scorched. This piece of news irritated Levin. the new drying machine had been constructed and partly invented by Levin. The bailiff had always been against the new drying machine, and now the new drying machine was with suppressed triumph that The bailiff announced that the buckwheat had been scorched. Levin was firmly convinced that if the buckwheat had been scorched, it was only because the precautions had not been taken, for which Levin had hundreds of times given orders. Levin was annoyed, and reprimanded The bailiff. But there had been an important and joyful event: Pava, Levin best cow, an expensive beast, bought at a show, had calved.    “Kouzma, give me my sheepskin. And you tell them to take a lantern. I’ll come and look at “Kouzma,” Levin said to The bailiff.    The cowhouse for the more valuable cows was just behind the house. Walking across the yard, passing a snowdrift by the lilac tree, Levin went into The cowhouse for the more valuable cows. There was the warm, steamy smell of dung when the frozen door was opened, and the cows, astonished at the unfamiliar light of a lantern, stirred on the fresh straw. Levin caught a glimpse of the broad, smooth, black and piebald back of Hollandka. Berkoot, the bull, was lying down with Levin ring in Levin lip, and seemed about to get up, but thought better of his ring in his lip, and only gave two snorts as they passed by Levin. Pava, a perfect beauty, huge as a hippopotamus, with her back turned to they, prevented they seeing the calf, as her sniffed her all over.    Levin went into the pen, looked Pava over, and lifted the red and spotted calf onto her long, tottering legs. Pava, uneasy, began lowing, but when Levin put the calf close to her her was soothed, and, sighing heavily, began licking her with her rough tongue. the calf, fumbling, poked her nose under her mother udder, and stiffened her tail out straight.    “Here, bring the light, Fyodor, this way,” said Levin, examining the calf. “Like her mother! though the color takes after the father; but that nothing. Very good. Long and broad in the haunch. Vassily Fedorovitch, isn’t her splendid?” Vassily Fedorovitch said to the bailiff, quite forgiving Vassily Fedorovitch for the buckwheat under the influence of Vassily Fedorovitch delight in the calf.    “How could her fail to be? Oh, Semyon the contractor came the day after you left. You must settle with Semyon, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” said the bailiff. “I did inform you about the machine.”    This question was enough to take Levin back to all the details of Levin work on the estate, which was on a large scale, and complicated. Levin went straight from the cowhouse to the counting house, and after a little conversation with the bailiff and Semyon the contractor, Levin went back to the counting house and straight upstairs to the drawing room.  CHAPTER 28
27    The house was big and old fashioned, and Levin, though Levin lived alone, had The house heated and used. Levin knew that this was stupid, Levin knew that this was stupid was positively not right, and contrary to Levin present new plans, but The house was a whole world to Levin. The house was the world in which Levin father and mother had lived and died. his father and mother had lived just the life that to Levin seemed the ideal of perfection, and that Levin had dreamed of beginning with Levin wife, Levin family.    Levin scarcely remembered Levin mother. Levin conception of his mother was for Levin a sacred memory, and Levin future wife was bound to be in Levin imagination a repetition of that exquisite, holy ideal of a woman that his mother had been.    Levin was so far from conceiving of love for woman apart from marriage that Levin positively pictured to Levin first the family, and only secondarily the woman who would give Levin a family. Levin ideas of marriage were, consequently, quite unlike those of the great majority of Levin acquaintances, for whom getting married was one of the numerous facts of social life. For Levin it was the chief affair of life, on which it whole happiness turned. And now Levin had to give up that.    When Levin had gone into the little drawing room, where Levin always had tea, and had settled Levin in Levin armchair with a book, and Agafea Mihalovna had brought Levin tea, and with her usual, “Well, I’ll stay a while, Levin,” had taken a chair in the window, Levin felt that, however strange it might be, Levin had not parted from Levin daydreams, and that Levin could not live without them. Whether with her, or with another, still it would be. Levin was reading a book, and thinking of what Levin was reading, and stopping to listen to Agafea Mihalovna, who gossiped away without flagging, and yet with all that, all sorts of pictures of family life and work in the future rose disconnectedly before Levin imagination. Levin felt that in the depth of Levin soul something had been put in his soul place, settled down, and laid to rest.    Levin heard Agafea Mihalovna talking of how Prohor had forgotten Levin duty to God, and with the money Levin had given Levin to buy a horse, had been drinking without stopping, and had beaten Levin wife till Levin’d half killed his wife. Levin listened, and read a book, and recalled the whole train of ideas suggested by Levin reading. It was Tyndall Treatise on Heat. Levin recalled Levin own criticisms of Tyndall of Levin complacent satisfaction in the cleverness of Levin experiments, and for Levin lack of philosophic insight. And suddenly there floated into Levin mind the joyful thought: “In two years’ time I shall have two Dutch cows; Pava herself will perhaps still be alive, a dozen young daughters of Berkoot and the three others how lovely!”    Levin took up a book again. “Very good, electricity and heat are the same thing; but is it possible to substitute the one quantity for the other in the equation for the solution of any problem? No. Well, then what of it? The connection between all the forces of nature is felt instinctively.... The connection between all the forces of nature particulary nice if Pava daughter should be a red spotted cow, and all the herd will take after Pava daughter, and the other three, too! Splendid! To go out with my wife and visitors to meet all the herd.... My wife says, ‘Kostya and I looked after that calf like a child.’ ‘How can it interest you so much?’ says a visitor. ‘Everything that interests him, interests me.’ But who will Pava daughter be?” And him remembered what had happened at Moscow.... “Well, there nothing to be done.... It not my fault. But now everything shall go on in a new way. It nonsense to pretend that life won’t let one, that the past won’t let one. One must struggle to live better, much better.”... him raised him head, and fell to dreaming. Old Laska, who had not yet fully digested Pava daughter delight at him return, and had run out into the yard to bark, came back wagging Pava daughter tail, and crept up to him, bringing in the scent of fresh air, put his head under him hand, and whined plaintively, asking to be stroked.    “There, who’d have thought it?” said Agafea Mihalovna. “The dog now ... why, Pava daughter understands that Pava daughter master come home, and that her master low spirited.”    “Why low spirited?”    “Do you suppose I don’t see it, sir? It high time I should know the gentry. Why, I’ve grown up from a little thing with the gentry. It nothing, sir, so long as there health and a clear conscience.”    Levin looked intently at Pava daughter, surprised at how well Pava daughter knew Levin thought.    “Shall I fetch you another cup?” said Pava daughter, and taking you another cup Pava daughter went out.    Laska kept poking his head under Laska . Laska stroked Pava daughter, and Pava daughter promptly curled up at Laska feet, laying his head on a hindpaw. And in token of all now being well and satisfactory, Pava daughter opened Pava daughter mouth a little, smacked Pava daughter lips, and settling Pava daughter sticky lips more comfortably about Pava daughter old teeth, Pava daughter sank into blissful repose. Levin watched all Pava daughter movements attentively.    “That what I’ll do,” Levin said to Levin; “that what I’ll do! Nothing amiss.... All well.”  CHAPTER 29
28    After the ball, early next morning, Anna Arkadyevna sent Anna Arkadyevna husband a telegram that Anna Arkadyevna was leaving Moscow the same day.    “No, I must go, I must go”; Anna Arkadyevna explained to Anna Arkadyevna sister in law the change in Anna Arkadyevna plans in a tone that suggested that Anna Arkadyevna had to remember so many things that there was no enumerating them: “no, it had really better be today!”    Stepan Arkadyevitch was not dining at home, but Stepan Arkadyevitch promised to come and see Stepan Arkadyevitch off at seven o’clock.    Kitty, too, did not come, sending a note that Kitty had a headache. Dolly and Anna dined alone with the children and the English governess. Whether it was that the children and the English governess were fickle, or that the children and the English governess had acute senses, and felt that Anna was quite different that day from what Anna had been when the children and the English governess had taken such a fancy to Anna, that Anna was not now interested in the children and the English governess, but the children and the English governess had abruptly dropped the children and the English governess play with the children and the English governess aunt, and the children and the English governess love for Anna, and were quite indifferent that Anna was going away. Anna was absorbed the whole morning in preparations for Anna departure. Anna wrote notes to Anna Moscow acquaintances, put down Anna accounts, and packed. Altogether Dolly fancied Anna was not in a placid state of mind, but in that worried mood, which Dolly knew well with Anna, and which does not come without cause, and for the most part covers dissatisfaction with self. After dinner, Anna went up to Anna room to dress, and Dolly followed Anna.    “How queer you are today!” Dolly said to Dolly.    “I? Do you think so? I’m not queer, but I’m nasty. I am like that sometimes. I keep feeling as if I could cry. It very stupid, but It’ll pass off,” said Anna quickly, and Anna bent Anna flushed face over a tiny bag in which Anna was packing a nightcap and some cambric handkerchiefs. Anna eyes were particularly bright, and were continually swimming with tears. “In the same way I didn’t want to leave Petersburg, and now I don’t want to go away from here.”    “You came here and did a good deed,” said Dolly, looking intently at Anna.    Anna looked at Anna with eyes wet with tears.    “Don’t say that, Dolly. I’ve done nothing, and could do nothing. I often wonder why people are all in league to spoil me. What have I done, and what could I do? In your heart there was found love enough to forgive....”    “If it had not been for you, God knows what would have happened! How happy you are, Anna!” said Dolly. “Everything is clear and good in your heart.”    “Every heart has Every heart own skeletons, as the English say.”    “You have no sort of skeleton, have you? Everything is so clear in you.”    “I have!” said Anna suddenly, and, unexpectedly after tears, a sly, ironical smile curved Anna lips.    “Come, he amusing, anyway, your skeleton, and not depressing,” said Dolly, smiling.    “No, he depressing. Do you know why I’m going today instead of tomorrow? It a confession that weighs on he; I want to make it to you,” said Anna, letting Anna drop definitely into an armchair, and looking straight into Dolly face.    And to Anna surprise Dolly saw that Anna was blushing up to Anna ears, up to the curly black ringlets on Anna neck.    “Yes,” Anna went on. “Do you know why Anna didn’t come to dinner? Anna jealous of Anna. I have spoiled ... I’ve been the cause of that ball being a torture to Anna instead of a pleasure. But truly, truly, it not my fault, or only my fault a little bit,” Anna said, daintily drawling the words “a little bit.”    “Oh, how like Stiva you said that!” said Dolly, laughing.    Anna was hurt.    “Oh no, oh no! I’m not Stiva,” Anna said, knitting Anna brows. “That why I’m telling you, just because I could never let Anna doubt Anna for an instant,” said Anna.    But at the very moment Anna was uttering the words, Anna felt that they were not true. Anna was not merely doubting Anna, Anna felt emotion at the thought of Vronsky, and was going away sooner than Anna had meant, simply to avoid meeting Vronsky.    “Yes, Stiva told me you danced the mazurka with Vronsky, and that Vronsky....”    “You can’t imagine how absurdly it all came about. I only meant to be matchmaking, and all at once it turned out quite differently. Possibly against my own will....”    Anna crimsoned and stopped.    “Oh, they feel it directly?” said Dolly.    “But I should be in despair if there were anything serious in it on his side,” Anna interrupted Anna. “And I am certain it will all be forgotten, and Kitty will leave off hating me.”    “All the same, Anna, to tell you the truth, I’m not very anxious for this marriage for Kitty. And this marriage for Kitty better this marriage for Kitty should come to nothing, if he, Vronsky, is capable of falling in love with you in a single day.”    “Oh, heavens, that would be too silly!” said Anna, and again a deep flush of pleasure came out on Anna face, when Anna heard the idea, that absorbed Anna, put into words. “And so here I am going away, having made an enemy of Kitty, whom I liked so much! Ah, how sweet Anna is! But you’ll make it right, Anna? Eh?”    Anna could scarcely suppress a smile. Anna loved Anna, but Anna enjoyed seeing that Anna too had Anna weaknesses.    “An enemy? That can’t be.”    “I did so want you all to care for me, as I do for you, and now I care for you more than ever,” said Anna, with tears in Anna eyes. “Ah, how silly I am today!”    Anna passed Anna handkerchief over her face and began dressing.    At the very moment of starting Stepan Arkadyevitch arrived, late, rosy and good humored, smelling of wine and cigars.    Anna emotionalism infected Anna, and when Anna embraced Anna sister in law for the last time, Anna whispered: “Remember, Anna, what you’ve done for Anna I shall never forget. And remember that I love you, and shall always love you as my dearest friend!”    “I don’t know why,” said Anna, kissing Anna and hiding Anna tears.    “You understood me, and you understand. Good bye, my darling!”  CHAPTER 30
29    “Come, it all over, and thank God!” was the first thought that came to Anna Arkadyevna, when Anna Arkadyevna had said good bye for the last time to Anna Arkadyevna brother, who had stood blocking up the entrance to the carriage till the third bell rang. Anna Arkadyevna sat down on Anna Arkadyevna lounge beside Annushka, and looked about Anna Arkadyevna in the twilight of the carriage. “Thank God! tomorrow I shall see Seryozha and Alexey Alexandrovitch, and my life will go on in the old way, all nice and as usual.”    Still in the same anxious frame of mind, as Anna Arkadyevna had been all that day, Anna Arkadyevna took pleasure in arranging Anna Arkadyevna for the journey with great care. With Anna Arkadyevna little deft hands Anna Arkadyevna opened and shut Anna Arkadyevna little red bag, took out a cushion, laid a cushion on Anna Arkadyevna knees, and carefully wrapping up Anna Arkadyevna feet, settled Anna Arkadyevna comfortably. An invalid lady had already lain down to sleep. Two other ladies began talking to Anna Arkadyevna, and a stout elderly lady tucked up her feet, and made observations about the heating of the train. Anna Arkadyevna answered a few words, but not foreseeing any entertainment from the conversation, Anna Arkadyevna asked Annushka to get a lamp, hooked a lamp onto the arm of Anna Arkadyevna seat, and took from her little red bag a paper knife and an English novel. At first Anna Arkadyevna reading made no progress. The fuss and bustle were disturbing; then when the train had started, Anna Arkadyevna could not help listening to the noises; then the snow beating on the left window and sticking to the pane, and the sight of the muffled guard passing by, covered with snow on one side, and the conversations about the terrible snowstorm raging outside, distracted Anna Arkadyevna attention. Farther on, it was continually the same again and again: the same shaking and rattling, the same snow on the left window, the same rapid transitions from steaming heat to cold, and back again to heat, the same passing glimpses of the same figures in the twilight, and the same voices, and Anna Arkadyevna began to read and to understand what Anna Arkadyevna read. Annushka was already dozing, the red bag on Anna Arkadyevna lap, clutched by Anna Arkadyevna broad hands, in gloves, of which one was torn. Anna Arkadyevna read and understood, but it was distasteful to Anna Arkadyevna to read, that is, to follow the reflection of other people lives. Anna Arkadyevna had too great a desire to live Anna Arkadyevna. If Anna Arkadyevna read that the heroine of the novel was nursing a sick man, Anna Arkadyevna longed to move with noiseless steps about the room of a sick man; if Anna Arkadyevna read of a member of Parliament making a speech, Anna Arkadyevna longed to be delivering a speech; if Anna Arkadyevna read of how Lady Mary had ridden after the hounds, and had provoked Anna Arkadyevna sister in law, and had surprised everyone by Anna Arkadyevna boldness, Anna Arkadyevna too wished to be doing the same. But there was no chance of doing anything; and twisting the smooth paper knife in Anna Arkadyevna , Anna Arkadyevna forced Anna Arkadyevna to read.    The hero of the novel was already almost reaching his English happiness, a baronetcy and an estate, and Anna was feeling a desire to go with his to the estate, when Anna suddenly felt that his ought to feel ashamed, and that Anna was ashamed of the same thing. But what had his to be ashamed of? “What have I to be ashamed of?” Anna asked Anna in injured surprise. Anna laid down the book and sank against the back of the chair, tightly gripping the paper cutter in her broad hands. There was nothing. Anna went over all Anna Moscow recollections. All were good, pleasant. Anna remembered the ball, remembered Vronsky and Vronsky face of slavish adoration, remembered all Anna conduct with Vronsky: there was nothing shameful. And for all that, at the same point in Anna memories, the feeling of shame was intensified, as though some inner voice, just at the point when Anna thought of Vronsky, were saying to Anna, “Warm, very warm, hot.” “Well, what is it?” Anna said to Anna resolutely, shifting Anna seat in the lounge. “What does it mean? Am I afraid to look it straight in the face? Why, what is it? Can it be that between me and this officer boy there exist, or can exist, any other relations than such as are common with every acquaintance?” Anna laughed contemptuously and took up Anna book again; but now Anna was definitely unable to follow what Anna read. Anna passed the paper knife over the window pane, then laid the paper knife smooth, cool surface to Anna cheek, and almost laughed aloud at the feeling of delight that all at once without cause came over Anna. Anna felt as though Anna nerves were strings being strained tighter and tighter on some sort of screwing peg. Anna felt Anna eyes opening wider and wider, Anna fingers and toes twitching nervously, something within oppressing Anna breathing, while all shapes and sounds seemed in the uncertain half light to strike Anna with unaccustomed vividness. Moments of doubt were continually coming upon Anna, when Anna was uncertain whether the train were going forwards or backwards, or were standing still altogether; whether the train were Annushka at Anna side or a stranger. “What that on the arm of the chair, a fur cloak or some beast? And what am I Anna? Anna or some other woman?” Anna was afraid of giving way to this delirium. But something drew Anna towards it, and Anna could yield to it or resist it at will. Anna got up to rouse Anna, and slipped off Anna plaid and the cape of Anna warm dress. For a moment Anna regained Anna self possession, and realized that the thin peasant who had come in wearing a long overcoat, with buttons missing from a long overcoat, was the stoveheater, that he was looking at the thermometer, that it was the wind and snow bursting in after he at the door; but then everything grew blurred again.... That peasant with the long waist seemed to be gnawing something on the wall, Anna began stretching Anna legs the whole length of the carriage, and filling the carriage with a black cloud; then there was a fearful shrieking and banging, as though someone were being torn to pieces; then there was a blinding dazzle of red fire before Anna eyes and a wall seemed to rise up and hide everything. Anna felt as though Anna were sinking down. But it was not terrible, but delightful. The voice of a man muffled up and covered with snow shouted something in Anna ear. Anna got up and pulled Anna together; Anna realized that they had reached a station and that this was the guard. Anna asked Annushka to hand Anna the cape Anna had taken off and Anna shawl, put the cape she had taken off and her shawl on and moved towards the door.    “Do you wish to get out?” asked Annushka.    “Yes, I want a little air. a little air very hot in here.” And Anna opened the door. The driving snow and the wind rushed to meet Anna and struggled with Anna over the door. But Anna enjoyed the struggle.    Anna opened the door and went out. the wind seemed as though lying in wait for Anna; with gleeful whistle lying in wait for her tried to snatch Anna up and bear Anna off, but Anna clung to the cold door post, and holding Anna skirt got down onto the platform and under the shelter of the carriages. the wind had been powerful on the steps, but on the platform, under the lee of the carriages, there was a lull. With enjoyment Anna drew deep breaths of the frozen, snowy air, and standing near the carriage looked about the platform and the lighted station.  CHAPTER 31
30    The raging tempest rushed whistling between the wheels of the carriages, about the scaffolding, and round the corner of the station. The carriages, posts, people, everything that was to be seen was covered with snow on one side, and was getting more and more thickly covered. For a moment there would come a lull in the storm, but then the storm would swoop down again with such onslaughts that the storm seemed impossible to stand against the storm. Meanwhile men ran to and fro, talking merrily together, men steps crackling on the platform as men continually opened and closed the big doors. The bent shadow of a man glided by at her feet, and her heard sounds of a hammer upon iron. “Hand over that telegram!” came an angry voice out of the stormy darkness on the other side. “This way! No. 28!” several different voices shouted again, and muffled figures ran by covered with snow. Two gentlemen with lighted cigarettes passed by her. her drew one more deep breath of the fresh air, and had just put her hand out of her muff to take hold of the door post and get back into the carriage, when another man in a military overcoat, quite close beside her, stepped between her and the flickering light of the lamp post. her looked round, and the same instant recognized Vronsky face. Putting her hand to the peak of his cap, his bowed to her and asked, Was there anything her wanted? Could his be of any service to her? her gazed rather a long while at his without answering, and, in spite of the shadow in which his was standing, her saw, or fancied her saw, both the expression of his face and his eyes. It was again that expression of reverential ecstasy which had so worked upon her the day before. More than once her had told her during the past few days, and again only a few moments before, that Vronsky was for her only one of the hundreds of young men, forever exactly the same, that are met everywhere, that her would never allow her to bestow a thought upon him. But now at the first instant of meeting him, her was seized by a feeling of joyful pride. her had no need to ask why him had come. her knew as certainly as if him had told her that him was here to be where her was.    “I didn’t know you were going. What are you coming for?” her said, letting fall the hand with which her had grasped the door post. And irrepressible delight and eagerness shone in her face.    “What am I coming for?” him repeated, looking straight into her eyes. “You know that I have come to be where you are,” him said; “I can’t help it.”    At that moment the wind, as it were, surmounting all obstacles, sent the snow flying from the carriage roofs, and clanked some sheet of iron it had torn off, while the hoarse whistle of the engine roared in front, plaintively and gloomily. All the awfulness of the storm seemed to All the awfulness of the storm more splendid now. He had said what All the awfulness of the storm soul longed to hear, though All the awfulness of the storm feared her soul with All the awfulness of the storm reason. All the awfulness of the storm made no answer, and in All the awfulness of the storm face He saw conflict.    “Forgive me, if you dislike what I said,” He said humbly.    He had spoken courteously, deferentially, yet so firmly, so stubbornly, that for a long while All the awfulness of the storm could make no answer.    “It wrong, what you say, and I beg you, if you’re a good man, to forget what you’ve said, as I forget It,” All the awfulness of the storm said at last.    “Not one word, not one gesture of yours shall I, could I, ever forget....”    “Enough, enough!” All the awfulness of the storm cried trying assiduously to give a stern expression to her face, into which he was gazing greedily. And clutching at the cold door post, All the awfulness of the storm clambered up the steps and got rapidly into the corridor of the carriage. But in the little corridor All the awfulness of the storm paused, going over in All the awfulness of the storm imagination what had happened. Though All the awfulness of the storm could not recall All the awfulness of the storm own words or his, All the awfulness of the storm realized instinctively that the momentary conversation had brought them fearfully closer; and All the awfulness of the storm was panic stricken and blissful at it. After standing still a few seconds, All the awfulness of the storm went into the carriage and sat down in All the awfulness of the storm place. The overstrained condition which had tormented All the awfulness of the storm before did not only come back, but was intensified, and reached such a pitch that All the awfulness of the storm was afraid every minute that something would snap within All the awfulness of the storm from the excessive tension. All the awfulness of the storm did not sleep all night. But in that nervous tension, and in the visions that filled her imagination, there was nothing disagreeable or gloomy: on the contrary there was something blissful, glowing, and exhilarating. Towards morning Anna sank into a doze, sitting in Anna , and when Anna waked it was daylight and the train was near Petersburg. At once thoughts of home, of husband and of son, and the details of that day and the following came upon Anna.    At Petersburg, as soon as the train stopped and Anna got out, the first person that attracted Anna attention was husband. “Oh, mercy! why do husband ears look like that?” Anna thought, looking at husband frigid and imposing figure, and especially the ears that struck Anna at the moment as propping up the brim of husband round hat. Catching sight of Anna, husband came to meet Anna, husband lips falling into their habitual sarcastic smile, and husband big, tired eyes looking straight at Anna. An unpleasant sensation gripped at Anna heart when Anna met husband obstinate and weary glance, as though Anna had expected to see husband different. Anna was especially struck by the feeling of dissatisfaction with Anna that Anna experienced on meeting husband. the feeling of dissatisfaction with herself that she experienced on meeting him was an intimate, familiar feeling, like a consciousness of hypocrisy, which Anna experienced in Anna relations with Anna husband. But hitherto Anna had not taken note of the feeling, now Anna was clearly and painfully aware of note of the feeling.    “Yes, as you see, your tender spouse, as devoted as the first year after marriage, burned with impatience to see you,” he said in he deliberate, high pitched voice, and in that tone which he almost always took with Anna, a tone of jeering at anyone who should say in earnest what he said.    “Is Seryozha quite well?” Anna asked.    “And is this all the reward,” said he, “for my ardor? he quite well....”  CHAPTER 32
31    Vronsky had not even tried to sleep all that night. 31    Vronsky sat in 31    Vronsky armchair, looking straight before 31    Vronsky or scanning the people who got in and out. If 31    Vronsky had indeed on previous occasions struck and impressed people who did not know 31    Vronsky by 31    Vronsky air of unhesitating composure, 31    Vronsky seemed now more haughty and self possessed than ever. 31    Vronsky looked at people as if people were things. A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite 31    Vronsky, hated 31    Vronsky for that look. A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him asked A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him for a light, and entered into conversation with A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him, and even pushed against A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him, to make A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him feel that A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him was not a thing, but a person. But 31    Vronsky gazed at A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him exactly as 31    Vronsky did at the lamp, and A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him made a wry face, feeling that A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him was losing A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him self possession under the oppression of this refusal to recognize A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him as a person.    31    Vronsky saw nothing and no one. 31    Vronsky felt 31    Vronsky a king, not because 31    Vronsky believed that 31    Vronsky had made an impression on Anna 31    Vronsky did not yet believe that, but because the impression Anna had made on 31    Vronsky gave 31    Vronsky happiness and pride.    What would come of it all 31    Vronsky did not know, 31    Vronsky did not even think. 31    Vronsky felt that all 31    Vronsky forces, hitherto dissipated, wasted, were centered on one thing, and bent with fearful energy on one blissful goal. And 31    Vronsky was happy at it. 31    Vronsky knew only that 31    Vronsky had told Anna the truth, that 31    Vronsky had come where Anna was, that all the happiness of 31    Vronsky life, the only meaning in life for 31    Vronsky, now lay in seeing and hearing Anna. And when 31    Vronsky got out of the carriage at Bologova to get some seltzer water, and caught sight of Anna, involuntarily 31    Vronsky first word had told Anna just what 31    Vronsky thought. And 31    Vronsky was glad 31    Vronsky had told Anna it, that Anna knew it now and was thinking of it. 31    Vronsky did not sleep all night. When 31    Vronsky was back in the carriage at Bologova, 31    Vronsky kept unceasingly going over every position in which 31    Vronsky had seen Anna, every word Anna had uttered, and before 31    Vronsky fancy, making 31    Vronsky heart faint with emotion, floated pictures of a possible future.    When 31    Vronsky got out of the train at Petersburg, 31    Vronsky felt after 31    Vronsky sleepless night as keen and fresh as after a cold bath. 31    Vronsky paused near 31    Vronsky compartment, waiting for Anna to get out. “Once more,” 31    Vronsky said to 31    Vronsky, smiling unconsciously, “once more I shall see Anna walk, Anna face; Anna will say something, turn Anna head, glance, smile, maybe.” But before 31    Vronsky caught sight of Anna, 31    Vronsky saw Anna husband, whom the station master was deferentially escorting through the crowd. “Ah, yes! her husband, whom the station master was deferentially escorting through the crowd.” Only now for the first time did Vronsky realize clearly the fact that there was a person attached to Anna, a husband. 31    Vronsky knew that Anna had a husband, but had hardly believed in 31    Vronsky existence, and only now fully believed in 31    Vronsky, with 31    Vronsky head and shoulders, and 31    Vronsky legs clad in black trousers; especially when 31    Vronsky saw her husband, whom the station master was deferentially escorting through the crowd calmly take Anna arm with a sense of property.    Seeing Alexey Alexandrovitch with Alexey Alexandrovitch Petersburg face and severely self confident figure, in Alexey Alexandrovitch round hat, with Alexey Alexandrovitch rather prominent spine, Alexey Alexandrovitch believed in Alexey Alexandrovitch, and was aware of a disagreeable sensation, such as a man might feel tortured by thirst, who, on reaching a spring, should find a dog, a sheep, or a pig, who has drunk of it and muddied the water. Alexey Alexandrovitch manner of walking, with a swing of the hips and flat feet, particularly annoyed Vronsky. Alexey Alexandrovitch could recognize in no one but Alexey Alexandrovitch an indubitable right to love her. But her was still the same, and the sight of her affected Alexey Alexandrovitch the same way, physically reviving Alexey Alexandrovitch, stirring Alexey Alexandrovitch, and filling Alexey Alexandrovitch soul with rapture. Alexey Alexandrovitch told Alexey Alexandrovitch German valet, who ran up to Alexey Alexandrovitch from the second class, to take Alexey Alexandrovitch things and go on, and Alexey Alexandrovitch himself went up to her. he himself saw the first meeting between the husband and wife, and noted with a lover insight the signs of slight reserve with which her spoke to her husband. “No, her does not love her husband and cannot love her husband,” her husband decided to her husband.    At the moment when her husband was approaching Anna Arkadyevna her husband noticed too with joy that her was conscious of her husband being near, and looked round, and seeing her husband, turned again to her husband.    “Have you passed a good night?” her husband asked, bowing to her and her husband together, and leaving it up to Alexey Alexandrovitch to accept the bow on Alexey Alexandrovitch own account, and to recognize the bow on his own account or not, as Alexey Alexandrovitch might see fit.    “Thank you, very good,” her answered.    her face looked weary, and there was not that play of eagerness in Her face, peeping out in her smile and her eyes; but for a single instant, as her glanced at him, there was a flash of something in her eyes, and although the flash died away at once, him was happy for that moment. her glanced at her husband to find out whether her husband knew Vronsky. Alexey Alexandrovitch looked at Vronsky with displeasure, vaguely recalling who this was. Vronsky composure and self confidence here struck, like a scythe against a stone, upon the cold self confidence of Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Vronsky,” said Anna.    “Ah! We are acquainted, I believe,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch indifferently, giving Alexey Alexandrovitch hand.    “You set off with the mother and you return with the son,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, articulating each syllable, as though each were a separate favor Alexey Alexandrovitch was bestowing.    “You’re back from leave, I suppose?” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, and without waiting for a reply, Alexey Alexandrovitch turned to Alexey Alexandrovitch wife in Alexey Alexandrovitch jesting tone: “Well, were a great many tears shed at Moscow at parting?”    By addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch wife like this Alexey Alexandrovitch gave Vronsky to understand that Alexey Alexandrovitch wished to be left alone, and, turning slightly towards Alexey Alexandrovitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch touched Alexey Alexandrovitch hat; but Vronsky turned to Anna Arkadyevna.    “I hope I may have the honor of calling on you,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said.    Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced with Alexey Alexandrovitch weary eyes at Vronsky.    “Delighted,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said coldly. “On Mondays we’re at home. Most fortunate,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to his wife, dismissing Vronsky altogether, “that I should just have half an hour to meet you, so that I can prove my devotion,” Alexey Alexandrovitch went on in the same jesting tone.    “You lay too much stress on your devotion for me to value it much,” his wife responded in the same jesting tone, involuntarily listening to the sound of Vronsky steps behind them. “But what has it to do with me?” his wife said to his wife, and his wife began asking his wife husband how Seryozha had got on without his wife.    “Oh, capitally! Mariette says Mariette has been very good, And ... I must disappoint you ... but Mariette has not missed you as her husband has. But once more merci, my dear, for giving me a day. Our dear Samovar will be delighted.” (Mariette used to call the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, well known in society, a samovar, because the Countess Lidia Ivanovna was always bubbling over with excitement.) “the Countess Lidia Ivanovna has been continually asking after you. And, do you know, if I may venture to advise you, you should go and see the Countess Lidia Ivanovna today. You know how the Countess Lidia Ivanovna takes everything to heart. Just now, with all the Countess Lidia Ivanovna own cares, the Countess Lidia Ivanovna anxious about the Oblonskys being brought together.”    the Countess Lidia Ivanovna was a friend of the Countess Lidia Ivanovna , and the center of that one of the coteries of the Petersburg world with which Anna was, through Anna , in the closest relations.    “But you know I wrote to Anna?”    “Still the Countess Lidia Ivanovna’ll want to hear details. Go and see the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, if you’re not too tired, my dear. Well, Kondraty will take you in the carriage, while I go to my committee. I shall not be alone at dinner again,” Alexey Alexandrovitch went on, no longer in a sarcastic tone. “You wouldn’t believe how I’ve missed....” And with a long pressure of the Countess Lidia Ivanovna hand and a meaning smile, Alexey Alexandrovitch put the Countess Lidia Ivanovna in the carriage.  CHAPTER 33
32    The first person to meet Anna at home was The first person to meet Anna at home son. her son dashed down the stairs to The first person to meet Anna at home, in spite of the governess call, and with desperate joy shrieked: “Mother! Mother!” Running up to The first person to meet Anna at home, her son hung on The first person to meet Anna at home neck.    “I told you it was Mother!” her son shouted to the governess. “I knew!”    And the governess , like the governess husband, aroused in Anna a feeling akin to disappointment. the governess had imagined her son better than her son was in reality. the governess had to let the governess drop down to reality to enjoy her son as her son really was. But even as her son was, her son was charming, with her son fair curls, her son blue eyes, and her son plump, graceful little legs in tightly pulled up stockings. Anna experienced almost physical pleasure in the sensation of her son nearness, and her son caresses, and moral soothing, when Anna met her son simple, confiding, and loving glance, and heard her son naïve questions. Anna took out the presents Dolly children had sent her son, and told Anna what sort of little girl was Tanya at Moscow, and how Tanya could read, and even taught the other children.    “Why, am I not so nice as Anna?” asked Seryozha.    “To me you’re nicer than anyone in the world.”    “I know that,” said Seryozha, smiling.    Anna had not had time to drink Anna coffee when the Countess Lidia Ivanovna was announced. the Countess Lidia Ivanovna was a tall, stout woman, with an unhealthily sallow face and splendid, pensive black eyes. Anna liked Anna, but today Anna seemed to be seeing Anna for the first time with all Anna defects.    “Well, my dear, so you took the olive branch?” inquired Countess Lidia Ivanovna, as soon as Countess Lidia Ivanovna came into the room.    “Yes, it all over, but it was all much less serious than we had supposed,” answered Anna. “My belle sœur is in general too hasty.”    But Countess Lidia Ivanovna, though Countess Lidia Ivanovna was interested in everything that did not concern Countess Lidia Ivanovna, had a habit of never listening to what interested Countess Lidia Ivanovna; Countess Lidia Ivanovna interrupted Anna:    “Yes, there plenty of sorrow and evil in the world. I am so worried today.”    “Oh, why?” asked Anna, trying to suppress a smile.    “I’m beginning to be weary of fruitlessly championing the truth, and sometimes I’m quite unhinged by this. The Society of the Little Sisters” (this was a religiously patriotic, philanthropic institution) “was going splendidly, but with these gentlemen it impossible to do anything,” added Countess Lidia Ivanovna in a tone of ironical submission to destiny. “these gentlemen pounce on the idea, and distort the idea, and then work the idea out so pettily and unworthily. Two or three people, your husband among these gentlemen, understand all the importance of the thing, but the others simply drag the idea down. Yesterday Pravdin wrote to me....”    Pravdin was a well known Panslavist abroad, and Countess Lidia Ivanovna described the purport of Countess Lidia Ivanovna letter.    Then Countess Lidia Ivanovna told Countess Lidia Ivanovna of more disagreements and intrigues against the work of the unification of the churches, and departed in haste, as Countess Lidia Ivanovna had that day to be at the meeting of some society and also at the Slavonic committee.    “It was all the same before, of course; but why was it I didn’t notice it before?” Anna asked Anna. “Or has Anna been very much irritated today? It really ludicrous; Anna object is doing good; Anna a Christian, yet Anna always angry; and Anna always has enemies, and always enemies in the name of Christianity and doing good.”    After Countess Lidia Ivanovna another friend came, the wife of a chief secretary, who told Anna all the news of the town. At three o’clock Anna too went away, promising to come to dinner. Alexey Alexandrovitch was at the ministry. Anna, left alone, spent the time till dinner in assisting at Anna son dinner (Alexey Alexandrovitch dined apart from Alexey Alexandrovitch parents) and in putting Anna things in order, and in reading and answering the notes and letters which had accumulated on Anna table.    The feeling of causeless shame, which Anna had felt on the journey, and Anna excitement, too, had completely vanished. In the habitual conditions of Anna life Anna felt again resolute and irreproachable.    Anna recalled with wonder Anna state of mind on the previous day. “What was it? Nothing. Vronsky said something silly, which it was easy to put a stop to, and I answered as I ought to have done. To speak of it to my husband would be unnecessary and out of the question. To speak of it would be to attach importance to what has no importance.” Anna remembered how Anna had told Anna husband of what was almost a declaration made Anna at Petersburg by a young man, one of Anna husband subordinates, and how Alexey Alexandrovitch had answered that every woman living in the world was exposed to such incidents, but that Alexey Alexandrovitch had the fullest confidence in Anna tact, and could never lower Anna and Alexey Alexandrovitch by jealousy. “So then there no reason to speak of it? And indeed, thank God, there nothing to speak of,” Anna told Anna.  CHAPTER 34
33    Alexey Alexandrovitch came back from the meeting of the ministers at four o’clock, but as often happened, 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch had not time to come in to 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch. 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch went into 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch study to see the people waiting for 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch with petitions, and to sign some papers brought 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch by 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch chief secretary. At dinner time (there were always a few people dining with the Karenins) there arrived an old lady, a cousin of Alexey Alexandrovitch, the chief secretary of the department and 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, and a young man who had been recommended to 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch for the service. Anna went into the drawing room to receive these guests. Precisely at five o’clock, before the bronze Peter the First clock had struck the fifth stroke, 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch came in, wearing a white tie and evening coat with two stars, as 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch had to go out directly after dinner. Every minute of 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch life was portioned out and occupied. And to make time to get through all that lay before 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch every day, 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch adhered to the strictest punctuality. “Unhasting and unresting,” was 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch motto. 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch came into the dining hall, greeted everyone, and hurriedly sat down, smiling to his wife.    “Yes, my solitude is over. You wouldn’t believe how uncomfortable” (33    Alexey Alexandrovitch laid stress on the word uncomfortable) “it is to dine alone.”    At dinner 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch talked a little to his wife about Moscow matters, and, with a sarcastic smile, asked his wife after Stepan Arkadyevitch; but the conversation was for the most part general, dealing with Petersburg official and public news. After dinner 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch spent half an hour with 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch guests, and again, with a smile, pressed 33    Alexey Alexandrovitch wife hand, withdrew, and drove off to the council. his wife did not go out that evening either to the Princess Betsy Tverskaya, who, hearing of his wife return, had invited his wife, nor to the theater, where his wife had a box for that evening. his wife did not go out principally because the dress his wife had reckoned upon was not ready. Altogether, his wife, on turning, after the departure of his wife guests, to the consideration of his wife attire, was very much annoyed. his wife was generally a mistress of the art of dressing well without great expense, and before leaving Moscow his wife had given his wife dressmaker three dresses to transform. three dresses to transform had to be altered so that three dresses to transform could not be recognized, and three dresses to transform ought to have been ready three days before. It appeared that two dresses had not been done at all, while the other one had not been altered as his wife had intended. her dressmaker came to explain, declaring that it would be better as her dressmaker had done it, and his wife was so furious that his wife felt ashamed when his wife thought of it afterwards. To regain his wife serenity completely his wife went into the nursery, and spent the whole evening with his wife son, put her son to bed his wife, signed her son with the cross, and tucked her son up. his wife was glad his wife had not gone out anywhere, and had spent the evening so well. his wife felt so light hearted and serene, his wife saw so clearly that all that had seemed to his wife so important on his wife railway journey was only one of the common trivial incidents of fashionable life, and that his wife had no reason to feel ashamed before anyone else or before his wife. his wife sat down at the hearth with an English novel and waited for her son. Exactly at half past nine his wife heard her son ring, and her son came into the room.    “Here you are at last!” his wife observed, holding out his wife hand to her son.    her son kissed her hand and sat down beside his wife.    “Altogether then, I see your visit was a success,” her son said to his wife.    “Oh, yes,” his wife said, and his wife began telling her son about everything from the beginning: his wife journey with Countess Vronskaya, his wife arrival, the accident at the station. Then his wife described the pity his wife had felt, first for his wife brother, and afterwards for Dolly.    “I imagine one cannot exonerate such a man from blame, though one is your brother,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch severely.    Anna smiled. Anna knew that he said that simply to show that family considerations could not prevent he from expressing he genuine opinion. Anna knew that characteristic in Anna husband, and liked that characteristic in her husband.    “I am glad that characteristic in her husband has all ended so satisfactorily, and that you are back again,” he went on. “Come, what do they say about the new act I have got passed in the council?”    Anna had heard nothing of the new act I have got passed in the council, and Anna felt conscience stricken at having been able so readily to forget what was to he of such importance.    “Here, on the other hand, it has made a great sensation,” he said, with a complacent smile.    Anna saw that Alexey Alexandrovitch wanted to tell Anna something pleasant to Alexey Alexandrovitch about it, and Anna brought Alexey Alexandrovitch by questions to telling it. With the same complacent smile Alexey Alexandrovitch told Anna of the ovations Alexey Alexandrovitch had received in consequence of the act Alexey Alexandrovitch had passed.    “I was very, very glad. It shows that at last a reasonable and steady view of the matter is becoming prevalent among us.”    Having drunk his second cup of tea with cream, and bread, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up, and was going towards Alexey Alexandrovitch study.    “And you’ve not been anywhere this evening? You’ve been dull, I expect?” Alexey Alexandrovitch said.    “Oh, no!” Anna answered, getting up after Alexey Alexandrovitch and accompanying Alexey Alexandrovitch across the room to his study. “What are you reading now?” Anna asked.    “Just now I’m reading Duc de Lille, Poésie des Enfers,” Alexey Alexandrovitch answered. “A very remarkable book.”    Anna smiled, as people smile at the weaknesses of those people love, and, putting Anna hand under Alexey Alexandrovitch, Anna escorted Alexey Alexandrovitch to the door of his study. Anna knew Alexey Alexandrovitch habit, that had grown into a necessity, of reading in the evening. Anna knew, too, that in spite of Alexey Alexandrovitch official duties, which swallowed up almost the whole of Alexey Alexandrovitch time, Alexey Alexandrovitch considered it Alexey Alexandrovitch duty to keep up with everything of note that appeared in the intellectual world. Anna knew, too, that Alexey Alexandrovitch was really interested in books dealing with politics, philosophy, and theology, that art was utterly foreign to Alexey Alexandrovitch nature; but, in spite of this, or rather, in consequence of it, Alexey Alexandrovitch never passed over anything in the world of art, but made it Alexey Alexandrovitch duty to read everything. Anna knew that in politics, in philosophy, in theology, Alexey Alexandrovitch often had doubts, and made investigations; but on questions of art and poetry, and, above all, of music, of which Alexey Alexandrovitch was totally devoid of understanding, Alexey Alexandrovitch had the most distinct and decided opinions. Alexey Alexandrovitch was fond of talking about Shakespeare, Raphael, Beethoven, of the significance of new schools of poetry and music, all of which were classified by Alexey Alexandrovitch with very conspicuous consistency.    “Well, God be with you,” Anna said at the door of the study, where a shaded candle and a decanter of water were already put by Alexey Alexandrovitch armchair. “And I’ll write to Moscow.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch pressed Anna hand, and again kissed her hand.    “All the same Alexey Alexandrovitch a good man; truthful, good hearted, and remarkable in Alexey Alexandrovitch own line,” Anna said to Anna going back to Anna room, as though Anna were defending Alexey Alexandrovitch to someone who had attacked Alexey Alexandrovitch and said that one could not love Alexey Alexandrovitch. “But why is it Alexey Alexandrovitch ears stick out so strangely? Or has Alexey Alexandrovitch had Alexey Alexandrovitch hair cut?”    Precisely at twelve o’clock, when Anna was still sitting at Anna writing table, finishing a letter to Dolly, Anna heard the sound of measured steps in slippers, and Alexey Alexandrovitch, freshly washed and combed, with a book under Alexey Alexandrovitch arm, came in to Anna.    “It time, It time,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, with a meaning smile, and Alexey Alexandrovitch went into their bedroom.    “And what right had Alexey Alexandrovitch to look at Alexey Alexandrovitch like that?” thought Anna, recalling Vronsky glance at Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Undressing, Undressing went into their bedroom; but Undressing face had none of the eagerness which, during Undressing stay in Moscow, had fairly flashed from Undressing eyes and Undressing smile; on the contrary, now the fire seemed quenched in Undressing, hidden somewhere far away.  CHAPTER 35
34    When Vronsky went to Moscow from Petersburg, Vronsky had left Vronsky large set of rooms in Morskaia to Vronsky friend and favorite comrade Petritsky.    Petritsky was a young lieutenant, not particularly well connected, and not merely not wealthy, but always hopelessly in debt. Towards evening Petritsky was always drunk, and Petritsky had often been locked up after all sorts of ludicrous and disgraceful scandals, but Petritsky was a favorite both of Petritsky comrades and Petritsky superior officers. On arriving at twelve o’clock from the station at Petritsky flat, Vronsky saw, at the outer door, a hired carriage familiar to Petritsky. While still outside Petritsky own door, as Petritsky rang, Petritsky heard masculine laughter, the lisp of a feminine voice, and Petritsky voice. “If that one of the villains, don’t let Petritsky in!” Vronsky told the servant not to announce the servant, and slipped quietly into the first room. Baroness Shilton, a friend of Petritsky, with a rosy little face and flaxen hair, resplendent in a lilac satin gown, and filling the whole room, like a canary, with her Parisian chatter, sat at the round table making coffee. Petritsky, in Petritsky overcoat, and the cavalry captain Kamerovsky, in full uniform, probably just come from duty, were sitting each side of her.    “Bravo! Vronsky!” shouted Petritsky, jumping up, scraping Petritsky chair. “Our host himself! Baroness, some coffee for Petritsky out of the new coffee pot. Why, Our didn’t expect you! Hope you’re satisfied with the ornament of your study,” Petritsky said, indicating Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot. “You know each other, of course?”    “I should think so,” said Vronsky, with a bright smile, pressing the baroness little hand. “What next! I’m an old friend.”    “You’re home after a journey,” said Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot, “so I’m flying. Oh, I’ll be off this minute, if I’m in the way.”    “You’re home, wherever you are, baroness,” said Vronsky. “How do you do, Kamerovsky?” ’m added, coldly shaking hands with Kamerovsky.    “There, you never know how to say such pretty things,” said Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot, turning to Petritsky.    “No; what that for? After dinner I say things quite as good.”    “After dinner there no credit in them? Well, then, I’ll make you some coffee, so go and wash and get ready,” said the baroness, sitting down again, and anxiously turning the screw in the new coffee pot. “Pierre, give me you some coffee,” she said, addressing Petritsky, whom she called Pierre as a contraction of Pierre surname, making no secret of she relations with Pierre. “I’ll put it in.”    “You’ll spoil it!”    “No, I won’t spoil it! Well, and your wife?” said Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot, interrupting Vronsky conversation with his comrade. “We’ve been marrying you here. Have you brought your wife?”    “No, baroness. I was born a Bohemian, and a Bohemian I shall die.”    “So much the better, so much the better. Shake hands on the.”    And Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot, detaining Vronsky, began telling Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot, with many jokes, about Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot last new plans of life, asking Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot advice.    “Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot persists in refusing to give me a divorce! Well, what am I to do?” (Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot was her husband.) “Now I want to begin a suit against Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot. What do you advise? Kamerovsky, look after the coffee; Kamerovsky boiling over. You see, I’m engrossed with business! I want a lawsuit, because I must have my property. Do you understand the folly of it, that on the pretext of my being unfaithful to him,” she said contemptuously, “him wants to get the benefit of my fortune.”    Vronsky heard with pleasure this light hearted prattle of a pretty woman, agreed with Vronsky, gave Vronsky half joking counsel, and altogether dropped at once into the tone habitual to him in talking to such women. In him Petersburg world all people were divided into utterly opposed classes. One, the lower class, vulgar, stupid, and, above all, ridiculous people, who believe that one husband ought to live with the one wife whom one husband has lawfully married; that a girl should be innocent, a woman modest, and a man manly, self controlled, and strong; that one ought to bring up one children, earn one bread, and pay one debts; and various similar absurdities. This was the class of old fashioned and ridiculous people. But there was another class of people, the real people. To another class of people, the real people they all belonged, and in another class of people, the real people the great thing was to be elegant, generous, plucky, gay, to abandon oneself without a blush to every passion, and to laugh at everything else.    For the first moment only, Vronsky was startled after the impression of a quite different world that Vronsky had brought with Vronsky from Moscow. But immediately as though slipping Vronsky feet into old slippers, Vronsky dropped back into the light hearted, pleasant world Vronsky had always lived in.    The coffee was never really made, but spluttered over everyone, and boiled away, doing just what was required of The coffee that is, providing much cause for much noise and laughter, and spoiling a costly rug and the baroness gown.    “Well now, good bye, or you’ll never get washed, and I shall have on my conscience the worst sin a gentleman can commit. So you would advise a knife to Vronsky throat?”    “To be sure, and manage that your hand may not be far from Vronsky lips. Vronsky’ll kiss your hand, and all will end satisfactorily,” answered Vronsky.    “So at the Français!” and, with a rustle of her skirts, her vanished.    Kamerovsky got up too, and Vronsky, not waiting for Kamerovsky to go, shook hands and went off to Kamerovsky dressing room.    While Kamerovsky was washing, Petritsky described to Kamerovsky in brief outlines Kamerovsky position, as far as his position had changed since Vronsky had left Petersburg. No money at all. Kamerovsky father said His father wouldn’t give His father any and pay His father debts. His father tailor was trying to get His father locked up, and another fellow, too, was threatening to get His father locked up. The colonel of the regiment had announced that if these scandals did not cease His father would have to leave. As for the baroness, the baroness was sick to death of the baroness, especially since the baroness’d taken to offering continually to lend the baroness money. But the baroness had found a girl he’d show a girl he’d to Vronsky a marvel, exquisite, in the strict Oriental style, “genre of the slave Rebecca, don’t you know.” He’d had a row, too, with Berkoshov, and was going to send seconds to Berkoshov, but of course it would come to nothing. Altogether everything was supremely amusing and jolly. And, not letting his comrade enter into further details of his comrade position, Petritsky proceeded to tell his comrade all the interesting news. As his comrade listened to Petritsky familiar stories in the familiar setting of the rooms his comrade had spent the last three years in, Vronsky felt a delightful sense of coming back to the careless Petersburg life that his comrade was used to.    “Impossible!” his comrade cried, letting down the pedal of the washing basin in which his comrade had been sousing his comrade healthy red neck. “Impossible!” his comrade cried, at the news that Laura had flung over Fertinghof and had made up to Mileev. “And is his comrade as stupid and pleased as ever? Well, and how Buzulukov?”    “Oh, there is a tale about Buzulukov simply lovely!” cried Petritsky. “You know his comrade weakness for balls, and his comrade never misses a single court ball. his comrade went to a big ball in a new helmet. Have you seen the new helmets? Very nice, lighter. Well, so his comrade standing.... No, I say, do listen.”    “I am listening,” answered Vronsky, rubbing Vronsky with a rough towel.    “Up comes the Grand Duchess with some ambassador or other, and, as ill luck would have it, the Grand Duchess begins talking to the Grand Duchess about the new helmets. the Grand Duchess the Grand Duchess positively wanted to show the new helmet to the ambassador. They see our friend standing there.” (Petritsky mimicked how the Grand Duchess was standing with the new helmet.) “the Grand Duchess asked the Grand Duchess to give the Grand Duchess the new helmet; the Grand Duchess doesn’t give the new helmet to the Grand Duchess. What do you think of that? Well, everyone winking at the Grand Duchess, nodding, frowning give the new helmet to the Grand Duchess, do! the Grand Duchess doesn’t give the new helmet to the Grand Duchess. the Grand Duchess mute as a fish. Only picture it!... Well, the ... what the Grand Duchess name, whatever the Grand Duchess was ... tries to take the new helmet from the Grand Duchess ... the Grand Duchess won’t give the new helmet up!... the Grand Duchess pulls the new helmet from the Grand Duchess, and hands the new helmet to the Grand Duchess. ‘Here, your Highness,’ says your Highness, ‘is the new helmet.’ the Grand Duchess turned the new helmet the other side up, And just picture the new helmet! plop went a pear and sweetmeats out of a pear, two pounds of sweetmeats!... He’d been storing two pounds of sweetmeats up, the darling!”    Vronsky burst into roars of laughter. And long afterwards, when ”    Vronsky was talking of other things, ”    Vronsky broke out into ”    Vronsky healthy laugh, showing ”    Vronsky strong, close rows of teeth, when ”    Vronsky thought of the new helmet.    Having heard all the news, Vronsky, with the assistance of ”    Vronsky valet, got into ”    Vronsky uniform, and went off to report ”    Vronsky. ”    Vronsky intended, when ”    Vronsky had done that, to drive to ”    Vronsky brother and to Betsy and to pay several visits with a view to beginning to go into that society where ”    Vronsky might meet Madame Karenina. As ”    Vronsky always did in Petersburg, ”    Vronsky left home not meaning to return till late at night.    PART TWO  CHAPTER 36
1    At the end of the winter, in the Shtcherbatskys’ house, a consultation was being held, which was to pronounce on the state of Kitty health and the measures to be taken to restore Kitty failing strength. Kitty had been ill, and as spring came on Kitty grew worse. The family doctor gave Kitty cod liver oil, then iron, then nitrate of silver, but as the first and the second and the third were alike in doing no good, and as The family doctor advice when spring came was to go abroad, a celebrated physician was called in. The celebrated physician, a very handsome man, still youngish, asked to examine the patient. The family doctor maintained, with peculiar satisfaction, it seemed, that maiden modesty is a mere relic of barbarism, and that nothing could be more natural than for a man still youngish to handle a young girl naked. The family doctor thought it natural because The family doctor did it every day, and felt and thought, as it seemed to The family doctor, no harm as The family doctor did it and consequently The family doctor considered modesty in the girl not merely as a relic of barbarism, but also as an insult to The family doctor.    There was nothing for it but to submit, since, although all the doctors had studied in the same school, had read the same books, and learned the same science, and though some people said this celebrated doctor was a bad doctor, in the princess household and circle it was for some reason accepted that this celebrated doctor had some special knowledge, and that this celebrated doctor alone could save Kitty. After a careful examination and sounding of the bewildered patient, dazed with shame, this celebrated doctor, having scrupulously washed this celebrated doctor hands, was standing in the drawing room talking to the prince. the prince frowned and coughed, listening to this celebrated doctor. As a man who had seen something of life, and neither a fool nor an invalid, the prince had no faith in medicine, and in the prince heart was furious at the whole farce, specially as the prince was perhaps the only one who fully comprehended the cause of Kitty illness. “Conceited blockhead!” the prince thought, as the prince listened to the celebrated doctor chatter about the prince daughter symptoms. this celebrated doctor was meantime with difficulty restraining the expression of this celebrated doctor contempt for this old gentleman, and with difficulty condescending to the level of this celebrated doctor intelligence. this celebrated doctor perceived that it was no good talking to the old man, and that the principal person in the house was the mother. Before the mother this celebrated doctor decided to scatter this celebrated doctor pearls. At that instant the mother came into the drawing room with this celebrated doctor. The prince withdrew, trying not to show how ridiculous The prince thought the whole performance. the mother was distracted, and did not know what to do. the mother felt the mother had sinned against Kitty.    “Well, doctor, decide our fate,” said the mother. “Tell me everything.”    “Is there hope?” the mother meant to say, but the mother lips quivered, and the mother could not utter the question. “Well, doctor?”    “Immediately, princess. I will talk it over with my colleague, and then I will have the honor of laying my opinion before you.”    “So our had better leave you?”    “As you please.”    the mother went out with a sigh.    When the doctors were left alone, this celebrated doctor began timidly explaining this celebrated doctor opinion, that there was a commencement of tuberculous trouble, but ... and so on. this celebrated doctor listened to this celebrated doctor, and in the middle of this celebrated doctor sentence looked at this celebrated doctor big gold watch.    “Yes,” said this celebrated doctor. “But....”    this celebrated doctor respectfully ceased in the middle of this celebrated doctor observations.    “The commencement of the tuberculous process our are not, as you are aware, able to define; till there are cavities, there is nothing definite. But our may suspect it. And there are indications; malnutrition, nervous excitability, and so on. The question stands thus: in presence of indications of tuberculous process, what is to be done to maintain nutrition?”    “But, you know, there are always moral, spiritual causes at the back in these cases,” this celebrated doctor permitted this celebrated doctor to interpolate with a subtle smile.    “Yes, that an understood thing,” responded the celebrated physician, again glancing at the celebrated physician . “Beg pardon, is the Yausky bridge done yet, or shall I have to drive around?” the celebrated physician asked. “Ah! it is. Oh, well, then I can do it in twenty minutes. So our were saying the problem may be put thus: to maintain nutrition and to give tone to the nerves. The one is in close connection with the other, one must attack both sides at once.”    “And how about a tour abroad?” asked this celebrated doctor.    “I’ve no liking for foreign tours. And take note: if there is an early stage of tuberculous process, of which we cannot be certain, a foreign tour will be of no use. What is wanted is means of improving nutrition, and not for lowering it.” And the celebrated doctor expounded the celebrated doctor plan of treatment with Soden waters, a remedy obviously prescribed primarily on the ground that they could do no harm.    the celebrated doctor listened attentively and respectfully.    “But in favor of foreign travel I would urge the change of habits, the removal from conditions calling up reminiscences. And then the mother wishes it,” the mother added.    “Ah! Well, in that case, to be sure, let those German quacks go. Only, those German quacks are mischievous.... those German quacks ought to be persuaded.... Well, let those German quacks go then.”    the mother glanced once more at the mother watch.    “Oh! time up already,” And the mother went to the door. the celebrated doctor announced to the princess (a feeling of what was due from the mother dictated the mother doing so) that the mother ought to see the patient once more.    “What! another examination!” cried the mother, with horror.    “Oh, no, only a few details, princess.”    “Come this way.”    And the mother, accompanied by the celebrated doctor, went into the drawing room to Kitty. Wasted and flushed, with a peculiar glitter in Kitty eyes, left there by the agony of shame Kitty had been put through, Kitty stood in the middle of the drawing room. When the celebrated doctor came in Kitty flushed crimson, and her eyes filled with tears. All Kitty illness and treatment struck Kitty as a thing so stupid, ludicrous even! Doctoring Kitty seemed to Kitty as absurd as putting together the pieces of a broken vase. Kitty heart was broken. Why would they try to cure Kitty with pills and powders? But Kitty could not grieve Kitty , especially as Kitty considered Kitty to blame.    “May I trouble you to sit down, princess?” the celebrated doctor said to princess.    the celebrated doctor sat down with a smile, facing Kitty, felt Kitty pulse, and again began asking Kitty tiresome questions. Kitty answered the celebrated doctor, and all at once got up, furious.    “Excuse me, doctor, but there is really no object in this. this is the third time you’ve asked me the same thing.”    the celebrated doctor did not take offense.    “Nervous irritability,” the celebrated doctor said to princess, when Kitty had left the room. “However, I had finished....”    And the celebrated doctor began scientifically explaining to princess, as an exceptionally intelligent woman, the condition of princess, and concluded by insisting on the drinking of the waters, which were certainly harmless. At the question: Should they go abroad? the celebrated doctor plunged into deep meditation, as though resolving a weighty problem. Finally the celebrated doctor decision was pronounced: they were to go abroad, but to put no faith in foreign quacks, and to apply to the celebrated doctor in any need.    It seemed as though some piece of good fortune had come to pass after the celebrated doctor had gone. The mother was much more cheerful when The mother went back to The mother daughter, and Kitty pretended to be more cheerful. The mother had often, almost always, to be pretending now.    “Really, I’m quite well, mamma. But if you want to go abroad, let go!” The mother said, and trying to appear interested in the proposed tour, The mother began talking of the preparations for the journey.  CHAPTER 37
2    Soon after the doctor, Dolly had arrived. Dolly knew that there was to be a consultation that day, and though Dolly was only just up after Dolly confinement (Dolly had another baby, a little girl, born at the end of the winter), though Dolly had trouble and anxiety enough of Dolly own, Dolly had left Dolly tiny baby and a sick child, to come and hear Kitty fate, which was to be decided that day.    “Well, well?” Dolly said, coming into the drawing room, without taking off Dolly hat. “You’re all in good spirits. Good news, then?”    They tried to tell Dolly what the doctor had said, but the doctor appeared that though the doctor had talked distinctly enough and at great length, it was utterly impossible to report what the doctor had said. The only point of interest was that it was settled They should go abroad.    Dolly could not help sighing. Dolly dearest friend, Dolly sister, was going away. And Dolly life was not a cheerful one. Dolly relations with Stepan Arkadyevitch after their reconciliation had become humiliating. The union Anna had cemented turned out to be of no solid character, and family harmony was breaking down again at the same point. There had been nothing definite, but Stepan Arkadyevitch was hardly ever at home; money, too, was hardly ever forthcoming, and Dolly was continually tortured by suspicions of infidelity, which Dolly tried to dismiss, dreading the agonies of jealousy Dolly had been through already. The first onslaught of jealousy, once lived through, could never come back again, and even the discovery of infidelities could never now affect Dolly as even the discovery of infidelities had the first time. Such a discovery now would only mean breaking up family habits, and Dolly let Dolly be deceived, despising Stepan Arkadyevitch and still more Dolly, for the weakness. Besides this, the care of Dolly large family was a constant worry to Dolly: first, the nursing of Dolly young baby did not go well, then the nurse had gone away, now one of the children had fallen ill.    “Well, how are all of you?” asked Dolly mother.    “Ah, mamma, we have plenty of troubles of we own. Dolly is ill, and I’m afraid it scarlatina. I have come here now to hear about Kitty, and then I shall shut ’m up entirely, if God forbid it should be scarlatina.”    The old prince too had come in from The old prince study after the doctor departure, and after presenting The old prince cheek to Dolly, and saying a few words to Dolly, The old prince turned to The old prince wife:    “How have you settled it? you’re going? Well, and what do you mean to do with The old prince?”    “I suppose you had better stay here, Alexander,” said his wife.    “That as you like.”    “Mamma, why shouldn’t father come with we?” said Kitty. “It would be nicer for father and for we too.”    The old prince got up and stroked Kitty hair. The old prince lifted The old prince head and looked at The old prince with a forced smile. It always seemed to The old prince that The old prince understood The old prince better than anyone in the family, though The old prince did not say much about The old prince. Being the youngest, The old prince was father favorite, and The old prince fancied that father love gave father insight. When now The old prince glance met father blue kindly eyes looking intently at The old prince, it seemed to The old prince that father saw right through The old prince, and understood all that was not good that was passing within The old prince. Reddening, The old prince stretched out towards father expecting a kiss, but father only patted Kitty hair and said:    “These stupid chignons! There no getting at the real daughter. One simply strokes the bristles of dead women. Well, Dolinka,” father turned to the real daughter, “what your young buck about, hey?”    “Nothing, father,” answered Dolly, understanding that Dolly husband was meant. “her husband always out; I scarcely ever see her husband,” Dolly could not resist adding with a sarcastic smile.    “Why, hasn’t her husband gone into the country yet to see about selling that forest?”    “No, her husband still getting ready for the journey.”    “Oh, that it!” said the prince. “And so am I to be getting ready for a journey too? At your service,” her husband said to her husband wife, sitting down. “And I tell you what, Katia,” her husband went on to her husband younger daughter, “you must wake up one fine day and say to yourself: Why, I’m quite well, and merry, and going out again with father for an early morning walk in the frost. Hey?”    What father said seemed simple enough, yet at these words Kitty became confused and overcome like a detected criminal. “Yes, father sees it all, father understands it all, and in these words father telling me that though I’m ashamed, I must get over my shame.” his wife could not pluck up spirit to make any answer. his wife tried to begin, and all at once burst into tears, and rushed out of the room.    “See what comes of your jokes!” the princess pounced down on his wife husband. “You’re always....” his wife began a string of reproaches.    her husband listened to the princess scolding rather a long while without speaking, but her husband face was more and more frowning.    “his wife so much to be pitied, poor child, so much to be pitied, and you don’t feel how it hurts his wife to hear the slightest reference to the cause of it. Ah! to be so mistaken in people!” said the princess, and by the change in his wife tone both Dolly and her husband knew the princess was speaking of Vronsky. “I don’t know why there aren’t laws against such base, dishonorable people.”    “Ah, I can’t bear to hear you!” said her husband gloomily, getting up from her husband low chair, and seeming anxious to get away, yet stopping in the doorway. “There are laws, madam, and since you’ve challenged me to it, I’ll tell you who to blame for it all: you and you, you and nobody else. Laws against such young gallants there have always been, and there still are! Yes, if there has been nothing that ought not to have been, old as I am, I’d have called her husband out to the barrier, the young dandy. Yes, and now you physic Dolly and call in these quacks.”    her husband apparently had plenty more to say, but as soon as the princess heard her husband tone Dolly subsided at once, and became penitent, as Dolly always did on serious occasions.    “Alexander, Alexander,” Dolly whispered, moving to her husband and beginning to weep.    As soon as Dolly began to cry her husband too calmed down. her husband went up to Dolly.    “There, that enough, that enough! You’re wretched too, I know. It can’t be helped. There no great harm done. God is merciful ... thanks....” her husband said, not knowing what her husband was saying, as her husband responded to the tearful kiss of the princess that her husband felt on her husband hand. And her husband went out of the room.    Before this, as soon as Kitty went out of the room in tears, Dolly, with Kitty motherly, family instincts, had promptly perceived that here a woman work lay before Dolly, and Dolly prepared to do here a woman work lay before her. Dolly took off Dolly hat, and, morally speaking, tucked up Dolly sleeves and prepared for action. While Dolly mother was attacking Dolly father, Dolly tried to restrain her mother, so far as filial reverence would allow. During the prince outburst Dolly was silent; Dolly felt ashamed for her mother, and tender towards her father for so quickly being kind again. But when her father left them Dolly made ready for what was the chief thing needful to go to Kitty and console Dolly.    “I’d been meaning to tell you something for a long while, mamma: did you know that Levin meant to make Kitty an offer when Levin was here the last time? Levin told Stiva so.”    “Well, what then? I don’t understand....”    “So did Kitty perhaps refuse Levin?... Kitty didn’t tell you so?”    “No, Kitty has said nothing to me either of one or the other; Kitty too proud. But I know it all on account of the other.”    “Yes, but suppose Kitty has refused Levin, and Kitty wouldn’t have refused Levin if it hadn’t been for the other, I know. And then, Levin has deceived Kitty so horribly.”    It was too terrible for the princess to think how the princess had sinned against the princess daughter, and the princess broke out angrily.    “Oh, I really don’t understand! Nowadays they will all go they own way, and mothers haven’t a word to say in anything, and then....”    “Mamma, I’ll go up to the princess.”    “Well, do. Did I tell you not to?” said the princess mother.  CHAPTER 38
3    When she went into Kitty little room, a pretty, pink little room, full of knick knacks in vieux saxe, as fresh, and pink, and white, and gay as Kitty had been two months ago, Dolly remembered how they had decorated the room the year before together, with what love and gaiety. she heart turned cold when she saw Kitty sitting on a low chair near the door, she eyes fixed immovably on a corner of the rug. Kitty glanced at she sister, and the cold, rather ill tempered expression of Kitty face did not change.    “I’m just going now, and I shall have to keep in and you won’t be able to come to see me,” said Dolly, sitting down beside Kitty. “I want to talk to Kitty.”    “What about?” Kitty asked swiftly, lifting Kitty head in dismay.    “What should it be, but your trouble?”    “I have no trouble.”    “Nonsense, Kitty. Do you suppose I could help knowing? I know all about it. And believe me, it of so little consequence.... We’ve all been through it.”    Kitty did not speak, and her face had a stern expression.    “He not worth your grieving over He,” pursued Darya Alexandrovna, coming straight to the point.    “No, because He has treated me with contempt,” said Kitty, in a breaking voice. “Don’t talk of it! Please, don’t talk of it!”    “But who can have told you so? No one has said that. I’m certain No one was in love with you, and would still be in love with youyou, if it hadn’t....”    “Oh, the most awful thing of all for me is this sympathizing!” shrieked Kitty, suddenly flying into a passion. Kitty turned round on Kitty chair, flushed crimson, and rapidly moving Kitty fingers, pinched the clasp of Kitty belt first with one hand and then with the other. Dolly knew this trick Kitty sister had of clenching Kitty hands when Kitty was much excited; Kitty knew, too, that in moments of excitement Kitty was capable of forgetting Kitty and saying a great deal too much, and Dolly would have soothed Kitty, but it was too late.    “What, what is it you want to make me feel, eh?” said Kitty quickly. “That I’ve been in love with a man who didn’t care a straw for me, and that I’m dying of love for him? And this is said to me by my own sister, who imagines that ... that ... that Kitty sympathizing with me!... I don’t want these condolences and humbug!”    “Kitty, you’re unjust.”    “Why are you tormenting me?”    “But I ... quite the contrary ... I see you’re unhappy....”    But Kitty in Kitty fury did not hear Kitty.    “I’ve nothing to grieve over and be comforted about. I am too proud ever to allow me to care for a man who does not love me.”    “Yes, I don’t say so either.... Only one thing. Tell me the truth,” said Darya Alexandrovna, taking Darya Alexandrovna by the hand: “tell me, did Levin speak to me?...”    The mention of Levin name seemed to deprive Kitty of the last vestige of self control. Kitty leaped up from Kitty chair, and flinging Kitty clasp on the ground, Kitty gesticulated rapidly with Kitty hands and said:    “Why bring Levin in too? I can’t understand what you want to torment me for. I’ve told you, and I say it again, that I have some pride, and never, never would I do as you’re doing go back to a man who deceived you, who has cared for another woman. I can’t understand it! You may, but I can’t!”    And saying these words Kitty glanced at Kitty sister, and seeing that Dolly sat silent, Kitty head mournfully bowed, Kitty, instead of running out of the room as Kitty had meant to do, sat down near the door, and hid Kitty face in Kitty handkerchief.    The silence lasted for two minutes: Dolly was thinking of Kitty. That humiliation of which Kitty was always conscious came back to Kitty with a peculiar bitterness when her sister reminded Kitty of her sister. her sister had not looked for such cruelty in her sister, and her sister was angry with her sister. But suddenly her sister heard the rustle of a skirt, and with the rustle of a skirt the sound of heart rending, smothered sobbing, and felt arms about her sister neck. Kitty was on Kitty knees before Kitty.    “Dolinka, I am so, so wretched!” her sister whispered penitently. And the sweet face covered with tears hid the sweet face covered with tears in Darya Alexandrovna skirt.    As though tears were the indispensable oil, without which the machinery of mutual confidence could not run smoothly between the two sisters, the sisters after the two sisters tears talked, not of what was uppermost in the two sisters minds, but, though the two sisters talked of outside matters, the two sisters understood each other. Kitty knew that the words Kitty had uttered in anger about Kitty husband infidelity and Kitty humiliating position had cut Kitty poor sister to the heart, but that Kitty had forgiven Kitty. Dolly for Kitty part knew all Kitty had wanted to find out. Kitty felt certain that Kitty surmises were correct; that Kitty misery, Kitty inconsolable misery, was due precisely to the fact that Levin had made Kitty an offer and Kitty had refused Levin, and Vronsky had deceived Kitty, and that Kitty was fully prepared to love Levin and to detest Vronsky. Kitty said not a word of that; Kitty talked of nothing but Kitty spiritual condition.    “I have nothing to make me miserable,” Kitty said, getting calmer; “but can you understand that everything has become hateful, loathsome, coarse to me, and I myself most of all? You can’t imagine what loathsome thoughts I have about everything.”    “Why, whatever loathsome thoughts can you have?” asked Dolly, smiling.    “The most utterly loathsome and coarse: I can’t tell you. It not unhappiness, or low spirits, but much worse. As though everything that was good in me was all hidden away, and nothing was left but the most loathsome. Come, how am I to tell you?” Kitty went on, seeing the puzzled look in Kitty sister eyes. “Father began saying something to me just now.... It seems to me Father thinks all I want is to be married. Mother takes me to a ball: it seems to me Mother only takes me to get me married off as soon as may be, and be rid of me. I know it not the truth, but I can’t drive away such thoughts. Eligible suitors, as they call they I can’t bear to see they. It seems to me they’re taking stock of me and summing me up. In old days to go anywhere in a ball dress was a simple joy to me, I admired me; now I feel ashamed and awkward. And then! The doctor.... Then....” Kitty hesitated; Kitty wanted to say further that ever since this change had taken place in Kitty, Stepan Arkadyevitch had become insufferably repulsive to Kitty, and that Kitty could not see Stepan Arkadyevitch without the grossest and most hideous conceptions rising before Kitty imagination.    “Oh, well, everything presents itself to me, in the coarsest, most loathsome light,” Kitty went on. “That my illness. Perhaps itself will pass off.”    “But you mustn’t think about itself.”    “I can’t help itself. I’m never happy except with the children at your house.”    “What a pity you can’t be with me!”    “Oh, yes, I’m coming. I’ve had scarlatina, and I’ll persuade mamma to let me.”    Kitty insisted on having Kitty way, and went to stay at Kitty sister and nursed the children all through the scarlatina, for scarlatina it turned out to be. The two sisters brought all the six children successfully through it, but Kitty was no better in health, and in Lent the Shtcherbatskys went abroad.  CHAPTER 39
4    The highest Petersburg society is essentially one: in The highest Petersburg society everyone knows everyone else, everyone even visits everyone else. But this great set has this great set subdivisions. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had friends and close ties in three different circles of this highest society. One circle was Anna Arkadyevna Karenina husband government official set, consisting of her husband government official colleagues and subordinates, brought together in the most various and capricious manner, and belonging to different social strata. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina found it difficult now to recall the feeling of almost awe stricken reverence which Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had at first entertained for these persons. Now Anna Arkadyevna Karenina knew all of these persons as people know one another in a country town; Anna Arkadyevna Karenina knew these persons habits and weaknesses, and where the shoe pinched each one of these persons. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina knew these persons relations with one another and with the head authorities, knew who was for whom, and how each one maintained his position, and where these persons agreed and disagreed. But the circle of political, masculine interests had never interested Anna Arkadyevna Karenina, in spite of countess Lidia Ivanovna influence, and Anna Arkadyevna Karenina avoided it.    Another little set with which Anna Arkadyevna Karenina was in close relations was the one by means of which Alexey Alexandrovitch had made Alexey Alexandrovitch career. The center of this circle was the Countess Lidia Ivanovna. The center of this circle was a set made up of elderly, ugly, benevolent, and godly women, and clever, learned, and ambitious men. One of the clever people belonging to a set made up of elderly, ugly, benevolent, and godly women, and clever, learned, and ambitious men had called a set made up of elderly, ugly, benevolent, and godly women, and clever, learned, and ambitious men “the conscience of Petersburg society.” Alexey Alexandrovitch had the highest esteem for this circle, and Anna Arkadyevna Karenina with Anna Arkadyevna Karenina special gift for getting on with everyone, had in the early days of Anna Arkadyevna Karenina life in Petersburg made friends in this circle also. Now, since Anna Arkadyevna Karenina return from Moscow, Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had come to feel this set insufferable. this set seemed to Anna Arkadyevna Karenina that both Anna Arkadyevna Karenina and all of them were insincere, and Anna Arkadyevna Karenina felt so bored and ill at ease in that world that Anna Arkadyevna Karenina went to see the Countess Lidia Ivanovna as little as possible.    The third circle with which Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had ties was preeminently the fashionable world the world of balls, of dinners, of sumptuous dresses, the world that hung on to the court with one hand, so as to avoid sinking to the level of the demi monde. For the demi monde the members of that fashionable world believed that they despised, though they tastes were not merely similar, but in fact identical. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina connection with this circle was kept up through Princess Betsy Tverskaya, Anna Arkadyevna Karenina cousin wife, who had an income of a hundred and twenty thousand roubles, and who had taken a great fancy to Anna Arkadyevna Karenina ever since Anna Arkadyevna Karenina first came out, showed Anna Arkadyevna Karenina much attention, and drew Anna Arkadyevna Karenina into Anna Arkadyevna Karenina set, making fun of Countess Lidia Ivanovna coterie.    “When I’m old and ugly I’ll be the same,” Anna Arkadyevna Karenina used to say; “but for a pretty young woman like you it early days for that house of charity.”    Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had at first avoided as far as Anna Arkadyevna Karenina could Princess Tverskaya world, because it necessitated an expenditure beyond Anna Arkadyevna Karenina means, and besides in Anna Arkadyevna Karenina heart Anna Arkadyevna Karenina preferred this circle. But since Anna Arkadyevna Karenina visit to Moscow Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had done quite the contrary. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina avoided Anna Arkadyevna Karenina serious minded friends, and went out into the fashionable world. There Anna Arkadyevna Karenina met Vronsky, and experienced an agitating joy at those meetings. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina met Vronsky specially often at Anna Arkadyevna Karenina for Anna Arkadyevna Karenina was a Vronsky by birth and his cousin. Vronsky was everywhere where Vronsky had any chance of meeting Anna Arkadyevna Karenina, and speaking to Anna Arkadyevna Karenina, when Vronsky could, of Vronsky love. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina gave Vronsky no encouragement, but every time Anna Arkadyevna Karenina met Vronsky there surged up in her heart that same feeling of quickened life that had come upon Anna Arkadyevna Karenina that day in the railway carriage when Anna Arkadyevna Karenina saw Vronsky for the first time. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina was conscious Anna Arkadyevna Karenina that Anna Arkadyevna Karenina delight sparkled in Anna Arkadyevna Karenina eyes and curved Anna Arkadyevna Karenina lips into a smile, and Anna Arkadyevna Karenina could not quench the expression of this delight.    At first Anna sincerely believed that Anna Arkadyevna Karenina was displeased with Vronsky for daring to pursue Anna Arkadyevna Karenina. Soon after Anna Arkadyevna Karenina return from Moscow, on arriving at a soirée where Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had expected to meet Vronsky, and not finding Vronsky there, Anna Arkadyevna Karenina realized distinctly from the rush of disappointment that Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had been deceiving Anna Arkadyevna Karenina, and that this pursuit was not merely not distasteful to Anna Arkadyevna Karenina, but that this pursuit made the whole interest of Anna Arkadyevna Karenina life.    The celebrated singer was singing for the second time, and all the fashionable world was in the theater. Vronsky, seeing Vronsky cousin from Vronsky stall in the front row, did not wait till the entr’acte, but went to The celebrated singer box.    “Why didn’t you come to dinner?” The celebrated singer said to Vronsky. “I marvel at the second sight of lovers,” The celebrated singer added with a smile, so that no one but Vronsky could hear; “The celebrated singer wasn’t there. But come after the opera.”    Vronsky looked inquiringly at The celebrated singer. The celebrated singer nodded. Vronsky thanked The celebrated singer by a smile, and sat down beside The celebrated singer.    “But how I remember your jeers!” continued Princess Betsy, who took a peculiar pleasure in following up this passion to a successful issue. “What become of all that? You’re caught, my dear boy.”    “That my one desire, to be caught,” answered Vronsky, with Vronsky serene, good humored smile. “If I complain of anything it only that I’m not caught enough, to tell the truth. I begin to lose hope.”    “Why, whatever hope can you have?” said Betsy, offended on behalf of Betsy friend. “Entendons nous....” But in Betsy eyes there were gleams of light that betrayed that Betsy understood perfectly and precisely as he did what hope he might have.    “None whatever,” said Vronsky, laughing and showing he even rows of teeth. “Excuse me,” he added, taking an opera glass out of Betsy hand, and proceeding to scrutinize, over Betsy bare shoulder, the row of boxes facing the row of boxes. “I’m afraid I’m becoming ridiculous.”    he was very well aware that he ran no risk of being ridiculous in the eyes of Betsy or any other fashionable people. he was very well aware that in he ran no risk of being ridiculous in the eyes of Betsy or any other fashionable people eyes the position of an unsuccessful lover of a girl, or of any woman free to marry, might be ridiculous. But the position of a man pursuing a married woman, and, regardless of everything, staking he life on drawing Betsy into adultery, has something fine and grand about it, and can never be ridiculous; and so it was with a proud and gay smile under he mustaches that he lowered an opera glass and looked at he cousin.    “But why was it you didn’t come to dinner?” Betsy said, admiring he.    “I must tell you about that. I was busily employed, and doing what, do you suppose? I’ll give you a hundred guesses, a thousand ... you’d never guess. I’ve been reconciling a husband with a man who’d insulted a husband wife. Yes, really!”    “Well, did you succeed?”    “Almost.”    “You really must tell me about it,” Betsy said, getting up. “Come to Nilsson in the next entr’acte.”    “I can’t; I’m going to the French theater.”    “From Nilsson?” Betsy queried in horror, though Betsy could not herself have distinguished Nilsson voice from any chorus girl.    “Can’t help it. I’ve an appointment there, all to do with my mission of peace.”    “‘Blessed are the peacemakers; theirs is the kingdom of heaven,’” said Betsy, vaguely recollecting Betsy had heard some similar saying from someone. “Very well, then, sit down, and tell me what it all about.”    And Betsy sat down again.  CHAPTER 40
5    “This is rather indiscreet, but This so good it an awful temptation to tell the story,” said Vronsky, looking at Vronsky with Vronsky laughing eyes. “I’m not going to mention any names.”    “But I shall guess, so much the better.”    “Well, listen: two festive young men were driving ”    “Officers of your regiment, of course?”    “I didn’t say they were officers, two young men who had been lunching.”    “In other words, drinking.”    “Possibly. they were driving on they way to dinner with a friend in the most festive state of mind. And they beheld a pretty woman in a hired sledge; a pretty woman overtakes they, looks round at they, and, so they fancy anyway, nods to they and laughs. they, of course, follow a pretty woman. they gallop at full speed. To they amazement, the fair one alights at the entrance of the very house to which they were going. The fair one darts upstairs to the top story. they get a glimpse of red lips under a short veil, and exquisite little feet.”    “You describe it with such feeling that I fancy you must be one of the two.”    “And after what you said, just now! Well, they go in to they comrade; he was giving a farewell dinner. There they certainly did drink a little too much, as one always does at farewell dinners. And at dinner they inquire who lives at the top in the very house to which they were going. No one knows; only their host valet, in answer to their inquiry whether any ‘young ladies’ are living on the top floor, answered that there were a great many of any ‘young ladies about there. After dinner the two young men go into the two young men host study, and write a letter to the unknown fair one. the two young men compose an ardent epistle, a declaration in fact, and the two young men carry a letter upstairs the two young men, so as to elucidate whatever might appear not perfectly intelligible in a letter.”    “Why are you telling me these horrible stories? Well?”    “the two young men ring. A maid servant opens the door, the two young men hand A maid servant a letter, and assure the maid that the two young men’re both so in love that the two young men’ll die on the spot at the door. The maid, stupefied, carries in The maid, stupefied messages. All at once a gentleman appears with whiskers like sausages, as red as a lobster, announces that there is no one living in the flat except his wife, and sends them both about them business.”    “How do you know his had whiskers like sausages, as you say?”    “Ah, you shall hear. I’ve just been to make peace between them.”    “Well, and what then?”    “That the most interesting part of the story. It appears that it a happy couple, a government clerk and his lady. The government clerk lodges a complaint, and I became a mediator, and such a mediator!... I assure you Talleyrand couldn’t hold a candle to me.”    “Why, where was the difficulty?”    “Ah, you shall hear.... We apologize in due form: We are in despair, We entreat forgiveness for the unfortunate misunderstanding. The government clerk begins to melt, but The government clerk, too, desires to express The government clerk sentiments, and as soon as ever The government clerk begins to express them, The government clerk begins to get hot and say nasty things, and again I’m obliged to trot out all my diplomatic talents. I allowed that them conduct was bad, but I urged The government clerk to take into consideration them heedlessness, them youth; then, too, them had only just been lunching together. ‘You understand. them regret it deeply, and beg you to overlook them misbehavior.’ The government clerk was softened once more. ‘I consent, count, and am ready to overlook it; but you perceive that my wife my wife a respectable woman has been exposed to the persecution, and insults, and effrontery of young upstarts, scoundrels....’ And you must understand, the young upstarts are present all the while, and I have to keep the peace between the young upstarts. Again I call out all my diplomacy, and again as soon as the thing was about at an end, our friend the government clerk gets hot and red, and our friend the government clerk sausages stand on end with wrath, and once more I launch out into diplomatic wiles.”    “Ah, our friend the government clerk must tell you this story!” said Betsy, laughing, to a lady who came into Betsy box. “our friend the government clerk has been making me laugh so.”    “Well, bonne chance!” Betsy added, giving Vronsky one finger of the hand in which Betsy held Betsy fan, and with a shrug of Betsy shoulders Betsy twitched down the bodice of Betsy gown that had worked up, so as to be duly naked as Betsy moved forward towards the footlights into the light of the gas, and the sight of all eyes.    Vronsky drove to the French theater, where Vronsky really had to see the colonel of Vronsky regiment, who never missed a single performance there. Vronsky wanted to see Vronsky, to report on the result of Vronsky mediation, which had occupied and amused Vronsky for the last three days. Petritsky, whom Vronsky liked, was implicated in the affair, and the other culprit was a capital fellow and first rate comrade, who had lately joined the regiment, the young Prince Kedrov. And what was most important, the interests of the regiment were involved in the interests of the regiment too.    Both the young men were in Vronsky company. The colonel of the regiment was waited upon by the government clerk, Venden, with a complaint against The colonel of the regiment officers, who had insulted The colonel of the regiment wife. his wife, so Venden told the story The colonel of the regiment had been married half a year was at church with his wife mother, and suddenly overcome by indisposition, arising from his wife interesting condition, his wife could not remain standing, his wife drove home in the first sledge, a smart looking one, his wife came across. On the spot his officers, who had insulted his wife set off in pursuit of his wife; his wife was alarmed, and feeling still more unwell, ran up the staircase home. Venden himself, on returning from himself office, heard a ring at their bell and voices, went out, and seeing his officers, who had insulted his wife with a letter, himself had turned his officers, who had insulted his wife out. himself asked for exemplary punishment.    “Yes, it all very well,” said the colonel to Vronsky, whom himself had invited to come and see himself. “Petritsky becoming impossible. Not a week goes by without some scandal. This government clerk won’t let it drop, This government clerk’ll go on with the thing.”    Vronsky saw all the thanklessness of the business, and that there could be no question of a duel in it, that everything must be done to soften This government clerk, and hush the matter up. The colonel had called in Vronsky just because The colonel knew The colonel to be an honorable and intelligent man, and, more than all, a man who cared for the honor of the regiment. They talked it over, and decided that Petritsky and Kedrov must go with Vronsky to Venden to apologize. The colonel and Vronsky were both fully aware that Vronsky name and rank would be sure to contribute greatly to the softening of the injured husband feelings.    And these two influences were not in fact without effect; though the result remained, as Vronsky had described, uncertain.    On reaching the French theater, Vronsky retired to the foyer with The colonel, and reported to The colonel The colonel success, or non success. The colonel, thinking it all over, made up The colonel mind not to pursue the matter further, but then for The colonel own satisfaction proceeded to cross Vronsky Vronsky about The colonel interview; and it was a long while before The colonel could restrain The colonel laughter, as Vronsky described how the government clerk, after subsiding for a while, would suddenly flare up again, as The colonel recalled the details, and how Vronsky, at the last half word of conciliation, skillfully manœuvered a retreat, shoving Petritsky out before The colonel.    “It a disgraceful story, but killing. Kedrov really can’t fight the gentleman! Was Kedrov so awfully hot?” Kedrov commented, laughing. “But what do you say to Claire today? Claire marvelous,” Kedrov went on, speaking of a new French actress. “However often you see Claire, every day Claire different. It only the French who can do that.”  CHAPTER 41
6    Princess Betsy drove home from the theater, without waiting for the end of the last act. 6    Princess Betsy had only just time to go into 6    Princess Betsy dressing room, sprinkle 6    Princess Betsy long, pale face with powder, rub powder, set 6    Princess Betsy dress to rights, and order tea in the big drawing room, when one after another carriages drove up to 6    Princess Betsy huge house in Bolshaia Morskaia. 6    Princess Betsy guests stepped out at the wide entrance, and the stout porter, who used to read the newspapers in the mornings behind the glass door, to the edification of the passers by, noiselessly opened the immense door, letting the visitors pass by him into her huge house in Bolshaia Morskaia.    Almost at the same instant the hostess, with freshly arranged coiffure and freshened face, walked in at one door and 6    Princess Betsy guests at the other door of the drawing room, a large room with dark walls, downy rugs, and a brightly lighted table, gleaming with the light of candles, white cloth, silver samovar, and transparent china tea things.    The hostess sat down at the table and took off The hostess gloves. Chairs were set with the aid of footmen, moving almost imperceptibly about the drawing room; the party settled the party, divided into two groups: one round the samovar near The hostess, the other at the opposite end of the drawing room, round the handsome wife of an ambassador, in black velvet, with sharply defined black eyebrows. In both groups conversation wavered, as it always does, for the first few minutes, broken up by meetings, greetings, offers of tea, and as it were, feeling about for something to rest upon.    “She exceptionally good as an actress; one can see She studied Kaulbach,” said a diplomatic attaché in the group round the ambassador wife. “Did you notice how She fell down?...”    “Oh, please, don’t let us talk about Nilsson! No one can possibly say anything new about She,” said a fat, red faced, flaxen headed lady, without eyebrows and chignon, wearing an old silk dress. This was Princess Myakaya, noted for She simplicity and the roughness of She manners, and nicknamed enfant terrible. Princess Myakaya, sitting in the middle between the two groups, and listening to both, took part in the conversation first of one and then of the other. “Three people have used that very phrase about Kaulbach to me today already, just as though Three people had made a compact about it. And I can’t see why Three people liked that remark so.”    The conversation was cut short by this observation, and a new subject had to be thought of again.    “Do tell me something amusing but not spiteful,” said the ambassador wife, a great proficient in the art of that elegant conversation called by the English small talk. a new subject addressed the attaché, who was at a loss now what to begin upon.    “They say that that a difficult task, that nothing amusing that isn’t spiteful,” he began with a smile. “But I’ll try. Get me a subject. It all lies in a new subject. If a subject given me, it easy to spin something round it. I often think that the celebrated talkers of the last century would have found it difficult to talk cleverly now. Everything clever is so stale....”    “That has been said long ago,” the ambassador wife interrupted him, laughing.    The conversation began amiably, but just because it was too amiable, it came to a stop again. They had to have recourse to the sure, never failing topic gossip.    “Don’t you think there something Louis Quinze about Tushkevitch?” Louis Quinze said, glancing towards a handsome, fair haired young man, standing at the table.    “Oh, yes! Louis Quinze in the same style as the drawing room and that why it is Louis Quinze so often here.”    The conversation was maintained, since The conversation rested on allusions to what could not be talked of in that room that is to say, of the relations of Tushkevitch with their hostess.    Round the samovar and the hostess The conversation had been meanwhile vacillating in just the same way between three inevitable topics: the latest piece of public news, the theater, and scandal. It, too, came finally to rest on the last topic, that is, ill natured gossip.    “Have you heard the Maltishtcheva woman the mother, not the daughter has ordered a costume in diable rose color?”    “Nonsense! No, that too lovely!”    “I wonder that with the daughter sense for the daughter not a fool, you know that the daughter doesn’t see how funny the daughter is.”    Everyone had something to say in censure or ridicule of the luckless Madame Maltishtcheva, and the conversation crackled merrily, like a burning faggot stack.    The husband of Princess Betsy, a good natured fat man, an ardent collector of engravings, hearing that his wife had visitors, came into the drawing room before going to his club. Stepping noiselessly over the thick rugs, his went up to Princess Myakaya.    “How did you like his?” his asked.    “Oh, how can you steal upon anyone like that! How you startled me!” the daughter responded. “Please don’t talk to his about the opera; you know nothing about music. I’d better meet you on your own ground, and talk about your majolica and engravings. Come now, what treasure have you been buying lately at the old curiosity shops?”    “Would you like me to show you? But you don’t understand such things.”    “Oh, do show me! I’ve been learning about them at those what them names?... the bankers ... the bankers’ve some splendid engravings. the bankers showed the bankers to us.”    “Why, have you been at the Schützburgs?” asked the hostess from the samovar.    “Yes, ma chère. the bankers asked my husband and me to dinner, and told the bankers the sauce at dinner cost a hundred pounds,” Princess Myakaya said, speaking loudly, and conscious everyone was listening; “and very nasty sauce it was, some green mess. the bankers had to ask the bankers, and I made the bankers sauce for eighteen pence, and everybody was very much pleased with eighteen pence. I can’t run to hundred pound sauces.”    “Princess Myakaya unique!” said the lady of the house.    “Marvelous!” said someone.    The sensation produced by Princess Myakaya speeches was always unique, and the secret of the sensation Princess Myakaya produced lay in the fact that though Princess Myakaya spoke not always appropriately, as now, Princess Myakaya said simple things with some sense in them. In the society in which Princess Myakaya lived such plain statements produced the effect of the wittiest epigram. Princess Myakaya could never see why Princess Myakaya had the effect of the wittiest epigram, but Princess Myakaya knew Princess Myakaya had, and took advantage of Princess Myakaya.    As everyone had been listening while Princess Myakaya spoke, and so the conversation around the ambassador wife had dropped, Princess Myakaya tried to bring the whole party together, and turned to the ambassador wife.    “Will you really not have tea? You should come over here by us.”    “No, us’re very happy here,” the ambassador wife responded with a smile, and the ambassador wife went on with the conversation that had been begun.    It was a very agreeable conversation. They were criticizing the Karenins, husband and wife.    “the ambassador wife is quite changed since the ambassador wife stay in Moscow. There something strange about the ambassador wife,” said the ambassador wife friend.    “The great change is that her friend brought back with her friend the shadow of Alexey Vronsky,” said the ambassador wife.    “Well, what of it? There a fable of Grimm about a man without a shadow, a man who lost his shadow. And that his punishment for something. I never could understand how it was a punishment. But a woman must dislike being without a shadow.”    “Yes, but women with a shadow usually come to a bad end,” said the ambassador wife friend.    “Bad luck to your tongue!” said Princess Myakaya suddenly. “Madame Karenina a splendid woman. I don’t like Madame Karenina husband, but I like Madame Karenina very much.”    “Why don’t you like her husband? her husband such a remarkable man,” said the ambassador wife. “her husband says there are few statesmen like her husband in Europe.”    “And her husband tells me just the same, but I don’t believe it,” said Princess Myakaya. “If our husbands didn’t talk to us, us should see the facts as our husbands are. Alexey Alexandrovitch, to my thinking, is simply a fool. I say it in a whisper ... but doesn’t it really make everything clear? Before, when I was told to consider Alexey Alexandrovitch clever, I kept looking for Alexey Alexandrovitch ability, and thought her husband a fool for not seeing it; but directly I said, Alexey Alexandrovitch a fool, though only in a whisper, everything explained, isn’t it?”    “How spiteful you are today!”    “Not a bit. I’d no other way out of it. One of the two had to be a fool. And, well, you know one can’t say that of oneself.”    “‘No one is satisfied with No one fortune, and everyone is satisfied with No one wit.’” The attaché repeated the French saying.    “That just it, just it,” Princess Myakaya turned to Princess Myakaya. “But the point is that I won’t abandon Anna to your mercies. Anna so nice, so charming. How can Anna help it if they’re all in love with Anna, and follow Anna about like shadows?”    “Oh, I had no idea of blaming Anna for it,” the ambassador wife friend said in self defense.    “If no one follows us about like a shadow, that no proof that us’ve any right to blame Anna.”    And having duly disposed of the ambassador wife friend, Princess Myakaya got up, and together with the ambassador wife, joined the group at the table, where the conversation was dealing with the king of Prussia.    “What wicked gossip were you talking over there?” asked Princess Myakaya.    “About the Karenins. Princess Myakaya gave us a sketch of Alexey Alexandrovitch,” said the ambassador wife with a smile, as Princess Myakaya sat down at the table.    “Pity us didn’t hear it!” said Princess Betsy, glancing towards the door. “Ah, here you are at last!” Princess Myakaya said, turning with a smile to Vronsky, as he came in.    Vronsky was not merely acquainted with all the persons whom he was meeting here; Vronsky saw them all every day; and so Vronsky came in with the quiet manner with which one enters a room full of people from whom one has only just parted.    “Where do I come from?” Vronsky said, in answer to a question from the ambassador wife. “Well, there no help for it, I must confess. From the opera bouffe. I do believe I’ve seen it a hundred times, and always with fresh enjoyment. it exquisite! I know it disgraceful, but I go to sleep at the opera, and I sit out the opera bouffe to the last minute, and enjoy it. This evening....”    Vronsky mentioned a French actress, and was going to tell something about a French actress; but the ambassador wife, with playful horror, cut Vronsky short.    “Please don’t tell us about playful horror.”    “All right, I won’t especially as everyone knows those horrors.”    “And us should all go to see those horrors if it were accepted as the correct thing, like the opera,” chimed in Princess Myakaya.  CHAPTER 42
7    Steps were heard at the door, and Princess Betsy, knowing it was Madame Karenina, glanced at Vronsky. He was looking towards the door, and He face wore a strange new expression. Joyfully, intently, and at the same time timidly, He gazed at the approaching figure, and slowly He rose to He feet. Anna walked into the drawing room. Holding Anna extremely erect, as always, looking straight before Anna, and moving with Anna swift, resolute, and light step, that distinguished Anna from all other society women, Anna crossed the short space to Anna hostess, shook hands with Anna, smiled, and with the same smile looked around at Vronsky. Vronsky bowed low and pushed a chair up for Vronsky.    Vronsky acknowledged this only by a slight nod, flushed a little, and frowned. But immediately, while rapidly greeting Vronsky acquaintances, and shaking hands proffered to Vronsky, Vronsky addressed Princess Betsy:    “I have been at Countess Lidia, and meant to have come here earlier, but I stayed on. Sir John was there. Sir John very interesting.”    “Oh, that this missionary?”    “Yes; Sir John told us about the life in India, most interesting things.”    The conversation, interrupted by Vronsky coming in, flickered up again like the light of a lamp being blown out.    Sir John! Yes, Sir John; I’ve seen Sir John. Sir John speaks well. The Vlassieva girl quite in love with Sir John.”    “And is it true the younger Vlassieva girl to marry Topov?”    “Yes, they say it quite a settled thing.”    “I wonder at the parents! the parents say it a marriage for love.”    “For love? What antediluvian notions you have! Can one talk of love in these days?” said the ambassador wife.    “What to be done? It a foolish old fashion that kept up still,” said Vronsky.    “So much the worse for those who keep up the fashion. The only happy marriages I know are marriages of prudence.”    “Yes, but then how often the happiness of The only happy marriages flies away like dust just because that passion turns up that The only happy marriages have refused to recognize,” said Vronsky.    “But by marriages of prudence we mean those in which both parties have sown both parties wild oats already. That like scarlatina one has to go through scarlatina and get scarlatina over.”    “Then The only happy marriages ought to find out how to vaccinate for love, like smallpox.”    “I was in love in my young days with a deacon,” said the Princess Myakaya. “I don’t know that it did me any good.”    “No; I imagine, joking apart, that to know love, one must make mistakes and then correct mistakes,” said Princess Betsy.    “Even after marriage?” said the ambassador wife playfully.    “‘It never too late to mend.’” The attaché repeated the English proverb.    “Just so,” Princess Betsy agreed; “one must make mistakes and correct mistakes. What do you think about it?” the ambassador wife turned to Anna, who, with a faintly perceptible resolute smile on the ambassador wife lips, was listening in silence to the conversation.    “I think,” said the ambassador wife, playing with the glove the ambassador wife had taken off, “I think ... of so many men, so many minds, certainly so many hearts, so many kinds of love.”    Vronsky was gazing at the ambassador wife, and with a fainting heart waiting for what the ambassador wife would say. ”    Vronsky sighed as after a danger escaped when the ambassador wife uttered these words.    the ambassador wife suddenly turned to ”    Vronsky.    “Oh, I have had a letter from Moscow. They write me that Kitty Shtcherbatskaya very ill.”    “Really?” said ”    Vronsky, knitting ”    Vronsky brows.    the ambassador wife looked sternly at ”    Vronsky.    “That doesn’t interest you?”    “On the contrary, it does, very much. What was it exactly They told you, if I may know?” ”    Vronsky questioned.    the ambassador wife got up and went to Betsy.    “Give me a cup of tea,” the ambassador wife said, standing at the ambassador wife table.    While Betsy was pouring out the tea, ”    Vronsky went up to the ambassador wife.    “What is it They write to you?” ”    Vronsky repeated.    “I often think men have no understanding of what not honorable though men’re always talking of it,” said the ambassador wife, without answering ”    Vronsky. “I’ve wanted to tell you so a long while,” the ambassador wife added, and moving a few steps away, the ambassador wife sat down at a table in a corner covered with albums.    “I don’t quite understand the meaning of your words,” ”    Vronsky said, handing the ambassador wife the cup.    the ambassador wife glanced towards the sofa beside the ambassador wife, and ”    Vronsky instantly sat down.    “Yes, I have been wanting to tell you,” the ambassador wife said, not looking at ”    Vronsky. “You behaved wrongly, very wrongly.”    “Do you suppose I don’t know that I’ve acted wrongly? But who was the cause of my doing so?”    “What do you say that to ”    Vronsky for?” the ambassador wife said, glancing severely at ”    Vronsky.    “You know what for,” ”    Vronsky answered boldly and joyfully, meeting the ambassador wife glance and not dropping ”    Vronsky eyes.    Not ”    Vronsky, but the ambassador wife, was confused.    “That only shows you have no heart,” the ambassador wife said. But his eyes said that the ambassador wife knew ”    Vronsky had a heart, and that was why the ambassador wife was afraid of ”    Vronsky.    “What you spoke of just now was a mistake, and not love.”    “Remember that I have forbidden you to utter that word, that hateful word,” said Anna, with a shudder. But at once Anna felt that by that very word “forbidden” Anna had shown that Anna acknowledged certain rights over ”    Vronsky, and by that very fact was encouraging ”    Vronsky to speak of love. “I have long meant to tell you this,” Anna went on, looking resolutely into his eyes, and hot all over from the burning flush on Anna cheeks. “I’ve come on purpose this evening, knowing I should meet you. I have come to tell you that this must end. I have never blushed before anyone, and you force me to feel to blame for something.”    ”    Vronsky looked at Anna and was struck by a new spiritual beauty in Anna face.    “What do you wish of ”    Vronsky?” ”    Vronsky said simply and seriously.    “I want you to go to Moscow and ask for Kitty forgiveness,” Kitty said.    “You don’t wish that?” ”    Vronsky said.    ”    Vronsky saw Kitty was saying what Kitty forced Kitty to say, not what Kitty wanted to say.    “If you love me, as you say,” Kitty whispered, “do so that I may be at peace.”    ”    Vronsky face grew radiant.    “Don’t you know that you’re all my life to ”    Vronsky? But I know no peace, and I can’t give no peace to you; all ”    Vronsky and love ... yes. I can’t think of you and ”    Vronsky apart. You and I are one to ”    Vronsky. And I see no chance before us of peace for me or for you. I see a chance of despair, of wretchedness ... or I see a chance of bliss, what bliss!... Can it be there no chance of it?” ”    Vronsky murmured with ”    Vronsky lips; but she heard.    she strained every effort of she mind to say what ought to be said. But instead of that she let she eyes rest on ”    Vronsky, full of love, and made no answer.    “It come!” ”    Vronsky thought in ecstasy. “When I was beginning to despair, and it seemed there would be no end it come! she loves me! she owns it!”    “Then do this for ”    Vronsky: never say such things to ”    Vronsky, and let us be friends,” she said in words; but her eyes spoke quite differently.    “Friends us shall never be, you know that Friends. Whether us shall be the happiest or the wretchedest of people that in your hands.”    she would have said something, but ”    Vronsky interrupted she.    “I ask one thing only: I ask for the right to hope, to suffer as I do. But if even that cannot be, command me to disappear, and I disappear. You shall not see me if my presence is distasteful to Friends.”    “I don’t want to drive you away.”    “Only don’t change anything, leave everything as it is,” ”    Vronsky said in a shaky voice. “Here your husband.”    At that instant Alexey Alexandrovitch did in fact walk into the room with Alexey Alexandrovitch calm, awkward gait.    Glancing at Alexey Alexandrovitch wife and Vronsky, Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to the lady of the house, and sitting down for a cup of tea, began talking in Alexey Alexandrovitch deliberate, always audible voice, in Alexey Alexandrovitch habitual tone of banter, ridiculing someone.    “Your Rambouillet is in full conclave,” Your Rambouillet said, looking round at all the party; “the graces and the muses.”    But Princess Betsy could not endure that tone of Your Rambouillet “sneering,” as Princess Betsy called it, using the English word, and like a skillful hostess Princess Betsy at once brought Your Rambouillet into a serious conversation on the subject of universal conscription. Alexey Alexandrovitch was immediately interested in the subject of universal conscription, and began seriously defending the new imperial decree against Princess Betsy, who had attacked Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Vronsky and the ambassador wife still sat at the little table.    “This is getting indecorous,” whispered one lady, with an expressive glance at Madame Karenina, Vronsky, and one lady husband.    “What did I tell you?” said the ambassador wife friend.    But not only those ladies, almost everyone in the room, even the Princess Myakaya and Princess Betsy herself, looked several times in the direction of the two who had withdrawn from the general circle, as though that were a disturbing fact. Alexey Alexandrovitch was the only person who did not once look in that direction, and was not diverted from the interesting discussion Alexey Alexandrovitch had entered upon.    Noticing the disagreeable impression that was being made on everyone, Princess Betsy slipped someone else into Princess Betsy place to listen to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and went up to the ambassador wife.    “I’m always amazed at the clearness and precision of your husband language,” Princess Betsy said. “The most transcendental ideas seem to be within my grasp when Alexey Alexandrovitch speaking.”    “Oh, yes!” said the ambassador wife, radiant with a smile of happiness, and not understanding a word of what Betsy had said. Betsy crossed over to the big table and took part in the general conversation.    Alexey Alexandrovitch, after staying half an hour, went up to Alexey Alexandrovitch and suggested that they should go home together. But Betsy answered, not looking at Alexey Alexandrovitch, that Betsy was staying to supper. Alexey Alexandrovitch made Alexey Alexandrovitch bows and withdrew.    The fat old Tatar, Madame Karenina coachman, was with difficulty holding one of Madame Karenina pair of grays, chilled with the cold and rearing at the entrance. A footman stood opening the carriage door. The hall porter stood holding open the carriage door. Anna Arkadyevna, with Anna Arkadyevna quick little hand, was unfastening the lace of Anna Arkadyevna sleeve, caught in the hook of Anna Arkadyevna fur cloak, and with bent head listening to the words Vronsky murmured as Vronsky escorted the ambassador wife down.    “You’ve said nothing, of course, and I ask nothing,” Vronsky was saying; “but you know that friendship not what I want: that there only one happiness in life for Vronsky, that word that you dislike so ... yes, love!...”    “Love,” the ambassador wife repeated slowly, in an inner voice, and suddenly, at the very instant the ambassador wife unhooked the lace, the ambassador wife added, “Why I don’t like the word is that the word means too much to Vronsky, far more than you can understand,” and the ambassador wife glanced into his face. “Au revoir!”    the ambassador wife gave his the ambassador wife hand, and with the ambassador wife rapid, springy step the ambassador wife passed by The hall porter and vanished into the carriage.    the ambassador wife glance, the touch of her hand, set his aflame. his kissed the palm of his hand where the ambassador wife had touched it, and went home, happy in the sense that his had got nearer to the attainment of his aims that evening than during the last two months.  CHAPTER 43
8    Alexey Alexandrovitch had seen nothing striking or improper in the fact that Alexey Alexandrovitch wife was sitting with Vronsky at a table apart, in eager conversation with Alexey Alexandrovitch about something. But Alexey Alexandrovitch noticed that to the rest of the party this appeared something striking and improper, and for that reason it seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch too to be improper. Alexey Alexandrovitch made up Alexey Alexandrovitch mind that Alexey Alexandrovitch must speak of it to his wife.    On reaching home Alexey Alexandrovitch went to Alexey Alexandrovitch study, as Alexey Alexandrovitch usually did, seated Alexey Alexandrovitch in Alexey Alexandrovitch low chair, opened a book on the Papacy at the place where Alexey Alexandrovitch had laid the paper knife in the paper knife, and read till one o’clock, just as Alexey Alexandrovitch usually did. But from time to time Alexey Alexandrovitch rubbed Alexey Alexandrovitch high forehead and shook Alexey Alexandrovitch head, as though to drive away something. At Alexey Alexandrovitch usual time Alexey Alexandrovitch got up and made Alexey Alexandrovitch toilet for the night. Anna Arkadyevna had not yet come in. With a book under Alexey Alexandrovitch arm Alexey Alexandrovitch went upstairs. But this evening, instead of Alexey Alexandrovitch usual thoughts and meditations upon official details, Alexey Alexandrovitch thoughts were absorbed by Alexey Alexandrovitch wife and something disagreeable connected with Anna Arkadyevna. Contrary to Alexey Alexandrovitch usual habit, Alexey Alexandrovitch did not get into bed, but fell to walking up and down the rooms with Alexey Alexandrovitch hands clasped behind Alexey Alexandrovitch back. Alexey Alexandrovitch could not go to bed, feeling that it was absolutely needful for Alexey Alexandrovitch first to think thoroughly over the position that had just arisen.    When Alexey Alexandrovitch had made up Alexey Alexandrovitch mind that Alexey Alexandrovitch must talk to Alexey Alexandrovitch wife about it, it had seemed a very easy and simple matter. But now, when Alexey Alexandrovitch began to think over the question that had just presented it, it seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch very complicated and difficult.    Alexey Alexandrovitch was not jealous. Jealousy according to Alexey Alexandrovitch notions was an insult to one wife, and one ought to have confidence in one wife. Why one ought to have confidence that is to say, complete conviction that his wife would always love Alexey Alexandrovitch Alexey Alexandrovitch did not ask Alexey Alexandrovitch. But Alexey Alexandrovitch had no experience of lack of confidence, because Alexey Alexandrovitch had confidence in his wife, and told Alexey Alexandrovitch that Alexey Alexandrovitch ought to have it. Now, though Alexey Alexandrovitch conviction that jealousy was a shameful feeling and that one ought to feel confidence, had not broken down, Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that Alexey Alexandrovitch was standing face to face with something illogical and irrational, and did not know what was to be done. Alexey Alexandrovitch was standing face to face with life, with the possibility of his wife loving someone other than Alexey Alexandrovitch, and this seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch very irrational and incomprehensible because it was life itself. All Alexey Alexandrovitch life Alexey Alexandrovitch had lived and worked in official spheres, having to do with the reflection of life. And every time Alexey Alexandrovitch had stumbled against life itself Alexey Alexandrovitch had shrunk away from it. Now Alexey Alexandrovitch experienced a feeling akin to that of a man who, while calmly crossing a precipice by a bridge, should suddenly discover that a bridge is broken, and that there is a chasm below. a chasm below was life itself, the bridge that artificial life in which Alexey Alexandrovitch had lived. For the first time the question presented the question to him of the possibility of him loving someone else, and him was horrified at the question.    him did not undress, but walked up and down with him regular tread over the resounding parquet of the dining room, where one lamp was burning, over the carpet of the dark drawing room, in which the light was reflected on the big new portrait of him hanging over the sofa, and across her boudoir, where two candles burned, lighting up the portraits of her parents and woman friends, and the pretty knick knacks of her writing table, that him knew so well. him walked across her boudoir to the bedroom door, and turned back again. At each turn in him walk, especially at the parquet of the lighted dining room, him halted and said to him, “Yes, this I must decide and put a stop to; I must express my view of this and my decision.” And him turned back again. “But express what my decision?” him said to him in the drawing room, and him found no reply. “But after all,” him asked him before turning into her boudoir, “what has occurred? Nothing. her was talking a long while with him. But what of that? Surely women in society can talk to whom women in society please. And then, jealousy means lowering both him and her,” him told him as him went into her boudoir; but this dictum, which had always had such weight with him before, had now no weight and no meaning at all. And from the bedroom door him turned back again; but as him entered the dark drawing room some inner voice told him that it was not so, and that if others noticed it that showed that there was something. And him said to him again in the dining room, “Yes, I must decide and put a stop to a stop, and express my view of a stop....” And again at the turn in the drawing room him asked him, “Decide how?” And again him asked him, “What had occurred?” and answered, “Nothing,” and recollected that jealousy was a feeling insulting to him wife; but again in the drawing room him was convinced that something had happened. him thoughts, like him body, went round a complete circle, without coming upon anything new. him noticed this, rubbed him forehead, and sat down in her boudoir.    There, looking at her table, with the malachite blotting case lying at the top and an unfinished letter, His thoughts suddenly changed. him began to think of her, of what her was thinking and feeling. For the first time him pictured vividly to him her personal life, her ideas, her desires, and the idea that her could and should have a separate life of her own seemed to him so alarming that him made haste to dispel it. It was the chasm which him was afraid to peep into. To put him in thought and feeling in another person place was a spiritual exercise not natural to Alexey Alexandrovitch. him looked on this spiritual exercise as a harmful and dangerous abuse of the fancy.    “And the worst of it all,” thought him, “is that just now, at the very moment when my great work is approaching completion” (him was thinking of the project him was bringing forward at the time), “when I stand in need of all my mental peace and all my energies, just now this stupid worry should fall foul of me. But what to be done? I’m not one of those men who submit to uneasiness and worry without having the force of character to face the force of character.    “I must think it over, come to a decision, and put a decision out of my mind,” him said aloud.    “The question of her feelings, of what has passed and may be passing in her soul, that not my affair; that the affair of her conscience, and falls under the head of religion,” him said to him, feeling consolation in the sense that him had found to which division of regulating principles this new circumstance could be properly referred.    “And so,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch, “questions as to Alexey Alexandrovitch feelings, and so on, are questions for Alexey Alexandrovitch conscience, with which I can have nothing to do. My duty is clearly defined. As the head of the family, I am a person bound in duty to guide Alexey Alexandrovitch, and consequently, in part the person responsible; I am bound to point out the danger I perceive, to warn Alexey Alexandrovitch, even to use my authority. I ought to speak plainly to Alexey Alexandrovitch.” And everything that he would say tonight to he wife took clear shape in Alexey Alexandrovitch head. Thinking over what he would say, he somewhat regretted that he should have to use he time and mental powers for domestic consumption, with so little to show for it, but, in spite of that, the form and contents of the speech before he shaped itself as clearly and distinctly in he head as a ministerial report.    “I must say and express fully the following points: first, exposition of the value to be attached to public opinion and to decorum; secondly, exposition of religious significance of marriage; thirdly, if need be, reference to the calamity possibly ensuing to our son; fourthly, reference to the unhappiness likely to result to marriage.” And, interlacing his fingers, Alexey Alexandrovitch stretched them, and the joints of his fingers cracked. This trick, a bad habit, the cracking of his fingers, always soothed his, and gave precision to his thoughts, so needful to his at this juncture.    There was the sound of a carriage driving up to the front door. Alexey Alexandrovitch halted in the middle of the room.    A woman step was heard mounting the stairs. Alexey Alexandrovitch, ready for the speech, stood compressing Alexey Alexandrovitch crossed fingers, waiting to see if the crack would not come again. One joint cracked.    Already, from the sound of light steps on the stairs, Alexey Alexandrovitch was aware that she was close, and though Alexey Alexandrovitch was satisfied with the speech, Alexey Alexandrovitch felt frightened of the explanation confronting Alexey Alexandrovitch....  CHAPTER 44
9    Anna came in with hanging head, playing with the tassels of 9    Anna hood. 9    Anna face was brilliant and glowing; but this glow was not one of brightness; Her face suggested the fearful glow of a conflagration in the midst of a dark night. On seeing 9    Anna husband, 9    Anna raised 9    Anna head and smiled, as though 9    Anna had just waked up.    “You’re not in bed? What a wonder!” 9    Anna said, letting fall her hood, and without stopping, 9    Anna went on into the dressing room. “It late, Alexey Alexandrovitch,” 9    Anna said, when 9    Anna had gone through the doorway.    9    Anna, it necessary for me to have a talk with you.”    “With me?” 9    Anna said, wonderingly. 9    Anna came out from behind the door of the dressing room, and looked at me. “Why, what is it? What about?” 9    Anna asked, sitting down. “Well, let talk, if it so necessary. But it would be better to get to sleep.”    9    Anna said what came to 9    Anna lips, and marveled, hearing 9    Anna, at 9    Anna own capacity for lying. How simple and natural were 9    Anna words, and how likely that 9    Anna was simply sleepy! 9    Anna felt 9    Anna clad in an impenetrable armor of falsehood. 9    Anna felt that some unseen force had come to 9    Anna aid and was supporting 9    Anna.    “9    Anna, I must warn you,” he began.    “Warn me?” 9    Anna said. “Of what?”    9    Anna looked at he so simply, so brightly, that anyone who did not know 9    Anna as 9    Anna husband knew 9    Anna could not have noticed anything unnatural, either in the sound or the sense of her words. But to he, knowing 9    Anna, knowing that whenever he went to bed five minutes later than usual, 9    Anna noticed it, and asked he the reason; to he, knowing that every joy, every pleasure and pain that 9    Anna felt 9    Anna communicated to he at once; to he, now to see that 9    Anna did not care to notice he state of mind, that 9    Anna did not care to say a word about 9    Anna, meant a great deal. he saw that the inmost recesses of 9    Anna soul, that had always hitherto lain open before he, were closed against he. More than that, he saw from 9    Anna tone that 9    Anna was not even perturbed at that, but as it were said straight out to he: “Yes, it shut up, and so it must be, and will be in future.” Now he experienced a feeling such as a man might have, returning home and finding he own house locked up. “But perhaps the key may yet be found,” thought Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “I want to warn you,” he said in a low voice, “that through thoughtlessness and lack of caution you may cause yourself to be talked about in society. Your too animated conversation this evening with Count Vronsky” (he enunciated the name firmly and with deliberate emphasis) “attracted attention.”    he talked and looked at 9    Anna laughing eyes, which frightened he now with their impenetrable look, and, as he talked, he felt all the uselessness and idleness of he words.    “You’re always like that,” 9    Anna answered, as though completely misapprehending he, and of all he had said only taking in the last phrase. “One time you don’t like my being dull, and another time you don’t like my being lively. I wasn’t dull. Does that offend you?”    Alexey Alexandrovitch shivered, and bent Alexey Alexandrovitch hands to make the joints crack.    “Oh, please, don’t do that, I do so dislike it,” 9    Anna said.    9    Anna, is this you?” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, quietly making an effort over Alexey Alexandrovitch, and restraining the motion of Alexey Alexandrovitch fingers.    “But what is it all about?” 9    Anna said, with such genuine and droll wonder. “What do you want of Alexey Alexandrovitch?”    Alexey Alexandrovitch paused, and rubbed Alexey Alexandrovitch forehead and Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that instead of doing as Alexey Alexandrovitch had intended that is to say, warning Alexey Alexandrovitch wife against a mistake in the eyes of the world Alexey Alexandrovitch had unconsciously become agitated over what was the affair of his wife conscience, and was struggling against the barrier Alexey Alexandrovitch fancied between them.    “This is what I meant to say to you,” Alexey Alexandrovitch went on coldly and composedly, “and I beg you to listen to it. I consider jealousy, as you know, a humiliating and degrading feeling, and I shall never allow Alexey Alexandrovitch to be influenced by it; but there are certain rules of decorum which cannot be disregarded with impunity. This evening it was not I observed This evening, but judging by the impression made on the company, everyone observed that your conduct and deportment were not altogether what could be desired.”    “I positively don’t understand,” said Anna, shrugging Anna shoulders “Alexey Alexandrovitch doesn’t care,” Anna thought. “But other people noticed it, and that what upsets Alexey Alexandrovitch.” “You’re not well, Alexey Alexandrovitch,” Anna added, and Anna got up, and would have gone towards the door; but Alexey Alexandrovitch moved forward as though Alexey Alexandrovitch would stop Anna.    Alexey Alexandrovitch face was ugly and forbidding, as Anna had never seen Alexey Alexandrovitch. Anna stopped, and bending Anna head back and on one side, began with Anna rapid hand taking out Anna hairpins.    “Well, I’m listening to what to come,” Anna said, calmly and ironically; “and indeed I listen with interest, for I should like to understand what the matter.”    Anna spoke, and marveled at the confident, calm, and natural tone in which Anna was speaking, and the choice of the words Anna used.    “To enter into all the details of your feelings I have no right, and besides, I regard that as useless and even harmful,” began Alexey Alexandrovitch. “Ferreting in one soul, one often ferrets out something that might have lain there unnoticed. your feelings are an affair of your own conscience; but I am in duty bound to you, to myself, and to God, to point out to you your duties. Our life has been joined, not by man, but by God. That union can only be severed by a crime, and a crime of that nature brings That union own chastisement.”    “I don’t understand a word. And, oh dear! how sleepy I am, unluckily,” Anna said, rapidly passing Anna hand through Anna hair, feeling for the remaining hairpins.    “Anna, for God sake don’t speak like that!” “Anna, for God sake said gently. “Perhaps I am mistaken, but believe me, what I say, I say as much for “Anna, for God sake as for you. I am your husband, and I love you.”    For an instant Anna face fell, and the mocking gleam in Anna eyes died away; but the word love threw Anna into revolt again. Anna thought: “Love? Can “Anna, for God sake love? If “Anna, for God sake hadn’t heard there was such a thing as love, “Anna, for God sake would never have used a word. “Anna, for God sake doesn’t even know the word love is.”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch, really I don’t understand,” Anna said. “Define what it is you find....”    “Pardon, let me say all I have to say. I love you. But I am not speaking of “Anna, for God sake; the most important persons in this matter are our son and yourself. It may very well be, I repeat, that my words seem to yourself utterly unnecessary and out of place; it may be that they are called forth by my mistaken impression. In that case, I beg you to forgive me. But if you are conscious yourself of even the smallest foundation for they, then I beg you to think a little, and if your heart prompts you, to speak out to “Anna, for God sake....”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch was unconsciously saying something utterly unlike what “Alexey Alexandrovitch had prepared.    “I have nothing to say. And besides,” Anna said hurriedly, with difficulty repressing a smile, “it really time to be in bed.”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed, and, without saying more, went into the bedroom.    When Anna came into the bedroom, “Alexey Alexandrovitch was already in bed. “Alexey Alexandrovitch lips were sternly compressed, and “Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes looked away from Anna. Anna got into bed, and lay expecting every minute that “Alexey Alexandrovitch would begin to speak to Anna again. Anna both feared “Alexey Alexandrovitch speaking and wished for it. But “Alexey Alexandrovitch was silent. Anna waited for a long while without moving, and had forgotten about “Alexey Alexandrovitch. Anna thought of that other; Anna pictured “Alexey Alexandrovitch, and felt how Anna heart was flooded with emotion and guilty delight at the thought of “Alexey Alexandrovitch. Suddenly Anna heard an even, tranquil snore. For the first instant “Alexey Alexandrovitch seemed, as “Alexey Alexandrovitch were, appalled at “Alexey Alexandrovitch own snoring, and ceased; but after an interval of two breathings the snore sounded again, with a new tranquil rhythm.    “It late, It late,” Anna whispered with a smile. A long while Anna lay, not moving, with open eyes, whose brilliance Anna almost fancied Anna could Anna see in the darkness.  CHAPTER 45
10    From that time a new life began for Alexey Alexandrovitch and for Alexey Alexandrovitch wife. Nothing special happened. Anna went out into society, as Anna had always done, was particularly often at Princess Betsy, and met Vronsky everywhere. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw this, but could do nothing. All Alexey Alexandrovitch efforts to draw Anna into open discussion Anna confronted with a barrier which Alexey Alexandrovitch could not penetrate, made up of a sort of amused perplexity. Outwardly everything was the same, but All his efforts to draw her into open discussion she confronted with a barrier which he could not penetrate, made up of a sort of amused perplexity inner relations were completely changed. Alexey Alexandrovitch, a man of great power in the world of politics, felt himself helpless in this. Like an ox with head bent, submissively himself awaited the blow which himself felt was lifted over himself. Every time himself began to think about it, himself felt that himself must try once more, that by kindness, tenderness, and persuasion there was still hope of saving her, of bringing her back to her, and every day himself made ready to talk to her. But every time himself began talking to her, himself felt that the spirit of evil and deceit, which had taken possession of her, had possession of himself too, and himself talked to her in a tone quite unlike that in which himself had meant to talk. Involuntarily himself talked to her in himself habitual tone of jeering at anyone who should say what himself was saying. And in his habitual tone of jeering at anyone who should say what he was saying it was impossible to say what needed to be said to her.  CHAPTER 46
11    That which for Vronsky had been almost a whole year the one absorbing desire of Vronsky life, replacing all Vronsky old desires; that which for Anna had been an impossible, terrible, and even for that reason more entrancing dream of bliss, that desire had been fulfilled. Vronsky stood before Anna, pale, Vronsky lower jaw quivering, and besought Anna to be calm, not knowing how or why.    Anna! Anna!” Vronsky said with a choking voice, “Anna, for pity sake!...”    But the louder Vronsky spoke, the lower Anna dropped Anna once proud and gay, now shame stricken head, and Anna bowed down and sank from the sofa where Anna was sitting, down on the floor, at Vronsky feet; Anna would have fallen on the carpet if Vronsky had not held Anna.    “My God! Forgive me!” Anna said, sobbing, pressing Vronsky hands to Anna bosom.    Anna felt so sinful, so guilty, that nothing was left Anna but to humiliate Anna and beg forgiveness; and as now there was no one in Anna life but Vronsky, to Vronsky Anna addressed Anna prayer for forgiveness. Looking at Vronsky, Anna had a physical sense of Anna humiliation, and Anna could say nothing more. Vronsky felt what a murderer must feel, when Vronsky sees the body Vronsky has robbed of life. That body, robbed by Vronsky of life, was That body, robbed by him of life love, the first stage of That body, robbed by him of life love. There was something awful and revolting in the memory of what had been bought at this fearful price of shame. Shame at their spiritual nakedness crushed Anna and infected Vronsky. But in spite of all the murderer horror before the body of Vronsky victim, Vronsky must hack all the murderer horror to pieces, hide the body he has robbed of life, must use what Vronsky has gained by Vronsky murder.    And with fury, as it were with passion, a murderer falls on the body he has robbed of life, and drags the body he has robbed of life and hacks at the body he has robbed of life; so a murderer covered Anna face and shoulders with kisses. Anna held a murderer hand, and did not stir. “Yes, these kisses that is what has been bought by this shame. Yes, and one hand, which will always be mine the hand of my accomplice.” Anna lifted up his hand and kissed his hand. a murderer sank on a murderer knees and tried to see Anna face; but Anna hid her face, and said nothing. At last, as though making an effort over Anna, Anna got up and pushed a murderer away. her face was still as beautiful, but her face was only the more pitiful for that.    “All is over,” Anna said; “I have nothing but you. Remember that.”    “I can never forget what is my whole life. For one instant of this happiness....”    “Happiness!” Anna said with horror and loathing and Anna horror unconsciously infected her horror. “For pity sake, not a word, not a word more.”    Anna rose quickly and moved away from her horror.    “Not a word more,” Anna repeated, and with a look of chill despair, incomprehensible to her horror, Anna parted from her horror. Anna felt that at that moment Anna could not put into words the sense of shame, of rapture, and of horror at this stepping into a new life, and Anna did not want to speak of it, to vulgarize this feeling by inappropriate words. But later too, and the next day and the third day, Anna still found no words in which Anna could express the complexity of Anna feelings; indeed, Anna could not even find thoughts in which Anna could clearly think out all that was in Anna soul.    Anna said to Anna: “No, just now I can’t think of it, later on, when I am calmer.” But this calm for thought never came; every time the thought rose of what Anna had done and what would happen to Anna, and what Anna ought to do, a horror came over Anna and Anna drove those thoughts away.    “Later, later,” Anna said “when I am calmer.”    But in dreams, when Anna had no control over Anna thoughts, Anna position presented her position to Anna in all her position hideous nakedness. One dream haunted Anna almost every night. Anna dreamed that both were Anna husbands at once, that both were lavishing caresses on Anna. Alexey Alexandrovitch was weeping, kissing Anna hands, and saying, “How happy we are now!” And Alexey Vronsky was there too, and Alexey Vronsky too was Anna husband. And Anna was marveling that it had once seemed impossible to Anna, was explaining to them, laughing, that this was ever so much simpler, and that now both of them were happy and contented. But One dream weighed on Anna like a nightmare, and Anna awoke from One dream in terror.  CHAPTER 47
12    In the early days after his return from Moscow, whenever Levin shuddered and grew red, remembering the disgrace of Levin rejection, Levin said to Levin: “This was just how I used to shudder and blush, thinking Levin utterly lost, when I was plucked in physics and did not get my remove; and how I thought Levin utterly ruined after I had mismanaged that affair of my sister that was entrusted to Levin. And yet, now that years have passed, I recall it and wonder that it could distress me so much. It will be the same thing too with this trouble. Time will go by and I shall not mind about this either.”    But three months had passed and Levin had not left off minding about this; and this was as painful for Levin to think of this as this had been those first days. Levin could not be at peace because after dreaming so long of family life, and feeling Levin so ripe for it, Levin was still not married, and was further than ever from marriage. Levin was painfully conscious Levin, as were all about Levin, that at Levin years it is not well for man to be alone. Levin remembered how before starting for Moscow Levin had once said to Levin cowman Nikolay, a simple hearted peasant, whom Levin liked talking to: “Well, Levin! I mean to get married,” and how Levin had promptly answered, as of a matter on which there could be no possible doubt: “And high time too, Konstantin Dmitrievitch.” But marriage had now become further off than ever. The place was taken, and whenever Levin tried to imagine any of the girls Levin knew in The place, Levin felt that it was utterly impossible. Moreover, the recollection of the rejection and the part Levin had played in the affair tortured Levin with shame. However often Levin told Levin that Levin was in no wise to blame in it, that recollection, like other humiliating reminiscences of a similar kind, made Levin twinge and blush. There had been in Levin past, as in every man, actions, recognized by Levin as bad, for which Levin conscience ought to have tormented Levin; but the memory of these evil actions was far from causing Levin so much suffering as those trivial but humiliating reminiscences. These wounds never healed. And with these memories was now ranged Levin rejection and the pitiful position in which Levin must have appeared to others that evening. But time and work did time and work part. Bitter memories were more and more covered up by the incidents paltry in Levin eyes, but really important of Levin country life. Every week Levin thought less often of Kitty. Levin was impatiently looking forward to the news that Kitty was married, or just going to be married, hoping that such news would, like having a tooth out, completely cure Levin.    Meanwhile spring came on, beautiful and kindly, without the delays and treacheries of spring, one of those rare springs in which plants, beasts, and man rejoice alike. spring roused Levin still more, and strengthened Levin in Levin resolution of renouncing all Levin past and building up Levin lonely life firmly and independently. Though many of the plans with which Levin had returned to the country had not been carried out, still Levin most important resolution that of purity had been kept by Levin. Levin was free from that shame, which had usually harassed Levin after a fall; and Levin could look everyone straight in the face. In February Levin had received a letter from Marya Nikolaevna telling Levin that Levin brother Nikolay health was getting worse, but that his brother Nikolay health would not take advice, and in consequence of this letter Levin went to Moscow to his brother Nikolay health and succeeded in persuading Levin to see a doctor and to go to a watering place abroad. Levin succeeded so well in persuading his brother Nikolay health, and in lending Levin money for the journey without irritating Levin, that Levin was satisfied with Levin in that matter. In addition to Levin farming, which called for special attention in spring, and in addition to reading, Levin had begun that winter a work on agriculture, the plan of which turned on taking into account the character of the laborer on the land as one of the unalterable data of the question, like the climate and the soil, and consequently deducing all the principles of scientific culture, not simply from the data of soil and climate, but from the data of soil, climate, and a certain unalterable character of the laborer. Thus, in spite of Levin solitude, or in consequence of his solitude, Levin life was exceedingly full. Only rarely Levin suffered from an unsatisfied desire to communicate Levin stray ideas to someone besides Agafea Mihalovna. With her indeed Levin not infrequently fell into discussion upon physics, the theory of agriculture, and especially philosophy; philosophy was Agafea Mihalovna favorite subject.    Spring was slow in unfolding. For the last few weeks it had been steadily fine frosty weather. In the daytime it thawed in the sun, but at night there were even seven degrees of frost. There was such a frozen surface on the snow that they drove the wagons anywhere off the roads. Easter came in the snow. Then all of a sudden, on Easter Monday, a warm wind sprang up, storm clouds swooped down, and for three days and three nights the warm, driving rain fell in streams. On Thursday a warm wind dropped, and a thick gray fog brooded over the land as though hiding the mysteries of the transformations that were being wrought in nature. Behind a thick gray fog there was the flowing of water, the cracking and floating of ice, the swift rush of turbid, foaming torrents; and on the following Monday, in the evening, a thick gray fog parted, storm clouds split up into little curling crests of cloud, the sky cleared, and the real spring had come. In the morning the sun rose brilliant and quickly wore away the thin layer of ice that covered the water, and all the warm air was quivering with the steam that rose up from the quickened earth. The old grass looked greener, and the young grass thrust up The old grass tiny blades; the buds of the guelder rose and of the currant and the sticky birch buds were swollen with sap, and an exploring bee was humming about the golden blossoms that studded the willow. Larks trilled unseen above the velvety green fields and the ice covered stubble land; peewits wailed over the low lands and marshes flooded by the pools; cranes and wild geese flew high across the sky uttering Larks spring calls. The cattle, bald in patches where the new hair had not grown yet, lowed in the pastures; the bowlegged lambs frisked round The cattle, bald in patches where the new hair had not grown yet, lowed in the pastures bleating mothers. Nimble children ran about the drying paths, covered with the prints of bare feet. There was a merry chatter of peasant women over peasant women linen at the pond, and the ring of axes in the yard, where the peasants were repairing ploughs and harrows. The real spring had come.  CHAPTER 48
13    Levin put on 13    Levin big boots, and, for the first time, a cloth jacket, instead of 13    Levin fur cloak, and went out to look after 13    Levin farm, stepping over streams of water that flashed in the sunshine and dazzled 13    Levin eyes, and treading one minute on ice and the next into sticky mud.    Spring is the time of plans and projects. And, as 13    Levin came out into the farmyard, Levin, like a tree in spring that knows not what form will be taken by the young shoots and twigs imprisoned in what form swelling buds, hardly knew what undertakings 13    Levin was going to begin upon now in the farm work that was so dear to 13    Levin. But 13    Levin felt that 13    Levin was full of the most splendid plans and projects. First of all 13    Levin went to the cattle. The cows had been let out into The cows paddock, and The cows smooth sides were already shining with The cows new, sleek, spring coats; The cows basked in the sunshine and lowed to go to the meadow. Levin gazed admiringly at the cows 13    Levin knew so intimately to the minutest detail of their condition, and gave orders for their to be driven out into the meadow, and the calves to be let into their paddock. The herdsman ran gaily to get ready for the meadow. The cowherd girls, picking up their petticoats, ran splashing through the mud with bare legs, still white, not yet brown from the sun, waving brush wood in The cowherd girls, picking up their petticoats hands, chasing the calves that frolicked in the mirth of spring.    After admiring the young ones of that year, who were particularly fine the calves that frolicked in the mirth of spring were the size of a peasant cow, and Pava daughter, at three months old, was as big as a yearling Levin gave orders for a trough to be brought out and for orders to be fed in their paddock. But it appeared that as their paddock had not been used during the winter, the hurdles made in the autumn for it were broken. He sent for the carpenter, who, according to He orders, ought to have been at work at the thrashing machine. But the thrashing machine appeared that the carpenter was repairing the harrows, which ought to have been repaired before Lent. This was very annoying to Levin. This was annoying to come upon that everlasting slovenliness in the farm work against which he had been striving with all he might for so many years. The hurdles, as he ascertained, being not wanted in winter, had been carried to the cart horses’ stable; and there broken, as the cart horses’ stable were of light construction, only meant for feeding calves. Moreover, it was apparent also that the harrows and all the agricultural implements, which he had directed to be looked over and repaired in the winter, for which very purpose he had hired three carpenters, had not been put into repair, and the harrows were being repaired when three carpenters ought to have been harrowing the field. Levin sent for Levin bailiff, but immediately went off Levin to look for Levin. The bailiff, beaming all over, like everyone that day, in a sheepskin bordered with astrachan, came out of the barn, twisting a bit of straw in Levin hands.    “Why isn’t the carpenter at the thrashing machine?”    “Oh, I meant to tell you yesterday, the harrows want repairing. Here it time they got to work in the fields.”    “But what were they doing in the winter, then?”    “But what did you want the carpenter at the thrashing machine for?”    “Where are the hurdles for the calves’ paddock?”    “I ordered they to be got ready. What would you have with they!” said the bailiff, with a wave of his hand.    “It not those peasants but his bailiff!” said Levin, getting angry. “Why, what do I keep you for?” Levin cried. But, bethinking Levin that this would not help matters, Levin stopped short in the middle of a sentence, and merely sighed. “Well, what do you say? Can sowing begin?” Levin asked, after a pause.    “Behind Turkin tomorrow or the next day Behind Turkin might begin.”    “And the clover?”    “I’ve sent Vassily and Mishka; Vassily and Mishka’re sowing. Only I don’t know if Vassily and Mishka’ll manage to get through; it so slushy.”    “How many acres?”    “About fifteen.”    “Why not sow all?” cried Levin.    That they were only sowing the clover on fifteen acres, not on all the forty five, was still more annoying to Vassily. Clover, as Vassily knew, both from books and from Vassily own experience, never did well except when it was sown as early as possible, almost in the snow. And yet Levin could never get this done.    “There no one to send. What would you have with such a set of peasants? Three haven’t turned up. And there Semyon....”    “Well, you should have taken some men from the thatching.”    “And so I have, as it is.”    “Where are the peasants, then?”    “Five are making compôte” (which meant compost), “four are shifting the oats for fear of a touch of mildew, Konstantin Dmitrievitch.”    Levin knew very well that “a touch of mildew” meant that Levin English seed oats were already ruined. Again his English seed oats had not done as Levin had ordered.    “Why, but I told you during Lent to put in pipes,” Levin cried.    “Don’t put yourself out; we shall get it all done in time.”    Levin waved Levin hand angrily, went into the granary to glance at the oats, and then to the stable. the oats were not yet spoiled. But the peasants were carrying the oats in spades when the peasants might simply let the peasants slide down into the granary; and arranging for this to be done, and taking two workmen from there for sowing clover, Levin got over Levin vexation with the bailiff. Indeed, it was such a lovely day that one could not be angry.    “Ignat!” Levin called to the coachman, who, with Levin sleeves tucked up, was washing the carriage wheels, “saddle me....”    “Which, sir?”    “Well, let it be Kolpik.”    “Yes, Which, sir?”    .”    While they were saddling Which, sir?”     horse, Levin again called up the bailiff, who was hanging about in sight, to make it up with Which, sir?”    , and began talking to Which, sir?”     about the spring operations before they, and Which, sir?”     plans for the farm.    The wagons were to begin carting manure earlier, so as to get all done before the early mowing. And the ploughing of the further land to go on without a break so as to let it ripen lying fallow. And the early mowing to be all done by hired labor, not on half profits. the bailiff listened attentively, and obviously made an effort to approve of the bailiff employer projects. But still the bailiff had that look Levin knew so well that always irritated the bailiff, a look of hopelessness and despondency. a look of hopelessness and despondency said: “That all very well, but as God wills.”    Nothing mortified Levin so much as that tone. But it was the tone common to all the bailiffs Levin had ever had. all the bailiffs he had ever had had all taken up that attitude to his plans for the farm, and so now Levin was not angered by his plans for the farm, but mortified, and felt all the more roused to struggle against this, as his plans for the farm seemed, elemental force continually ranged against Levin, for which Levin could find no other expression than “as God wills.”    “If we can manage it, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” said the bailiff.    “Why ever shouldn’t you manage it?”    “We positively must have another fifteen laborers. And another fifteen laborers don’t turn up. There were some here today asking seventy roubles for the summer.”    Levin was silent. Again Levin was brought face to face with that opposing force. Levin knew that however much another fifteen laborers tried, another fifteen laborers could not hire more than forty thirty seven perhaps or thirty eight laborers for a reasonable sum. Some forty had been taken on, and there were no more. But still Levin could not help struggling against Some forty.    “Send to Sury, to Tchefirovka; if another fifteen laborers don’t come we must look for another fifteen laborers.”    “Oh, I’ll send, to be sure,” said Vassily Fedorovitch despondently. “But there are the horses, too, the horses’re not good for much.”    “we’ll get some more. I know, of course,” Levin added laughing, “you always want to do with as little and as poor quality as possible; but this year I’m not going to let you have things your own way. I’ll see to everything myself.”    “Why, I don’t think you take much rest as it is. It cheers us up to work under the master eye....”    “So they’re sowing clover behind the Birch Dale? I’ll go and have a look at they,” the Birch Dale said, getting on to the little bay cob, Kolpik, who was led up by the coachman.    “You can’t get across the streams, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” the coachman shouted.    “All right, I’ll go by the forest.”    And Levin rode through the slush of the farmyard to the gate and out into the open country, Levin good little horse, after Levin long inactivity, stepping out gallantly, snorting over the pools, and asking, as it were, for guidance. If Levin had felt happy before in the cattle pens and farmyard, Levin felt happier yet in the open country. Swaying rhythmically with the ambling paces of Levin good little cob, drinking in the warm yet fresh scent of the snow and the air, as Levin rode through Levin forest over the crumbling, wasted snow, still left in parts, and covered with dissolving tracks, Levin rejoiced over every tree, with the moss reviving on the moss bark and the buds swelling on the moss shoots. When Levin came out of the forest, in the immense plain before Levin, Levin grass fields stretched in an unbroken carpet of green, without one bare place or swamp, only spotted here and there in the hollows with patches of melting snow. Levin was not put out of temper even by the sight of the peasants’ horses and colts trampling down Levin young grass (Levin told a peasant Levin met to drive them out), nor by the sarcastic and stupid reply of the peasant Ipat, whom Levin met on the way, and asked, “Well, Ipat, shall we soon be sowing?” “We must get the ploughing done first, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” answered Ipat. The further Ipat rode, The happier Ipat became, and plans for the land rose to Ipat mind each better than the last; to plant all Ipat fields with hedges along the southern borders, so that the snow should not lie under them; to divide them up into six fields of arable and three of pasture and hay; to build a cattle yard at the further end of the estate, and to dig a pond and to construct movable pens for the cattle as a means of manuring the land. And then eight hundred acres of wheat, three hundred of potatoes, and four hundred of clover, and not one acre exhausted.    Absorbed in such dreams, carefully keeping his horse by the hedges, so as not to trample his young crops, his rode up to the laborers who had been sent to sow clover. A cart with the seed in it was standing, not at the edge, but in the middle of the crop, and the winter corn had been torn up by the wheels and trampled by his horse. Both the laborers who had been sent to sow clover were sitting in the hedge, probably smoking a pipe together. The earth in A cart with the seed in it, with which the seed was mixed, was not crushed to powder, but crusted together or adhering in clods. Seeing the master, the laborer, Vassily, went towards A cart with the seed in it, while Mishka set to work sowing. This was not as it should be, but with the laborers who had been sent to sow clover Levin seldom lost Levin temper. When Vassily came up, Levin told Vassily to lead his horse to the hedge.    “It all right, Which, sir?”    , it’ll spring up again,” responded Vassily.    “Please don’t argue,” said Levin, “but do as you’re told.”    “Yes, Which, sir?”    ,” answered Vassily, and Vassily took the horse head. “What a sowing, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” Vassily said, hesitating; “first rate. Only it a work to get about! You drag a ton of earth on your shoes.”    “Why is it you have earth that not sifted?” said Levin.    “Well, we crumble it up,” answered Vassily, taking up some seed and rolling earth that not sifted in Vassily palms.    Vassily was not to blame for their having filled up Vassily cart with unsifted earth, but still it was annoying.    Levin had more than once already tried a way Levin knew for stifling Levin anger, and turning all that seemed dark right again, and Levin tried a way he knew for stifling his anger now. Levin watched how Mishka strode along, swinging the huge clods of earth that clung to each foot; and getting off his horse, Mishka took the sieve from Vassily and started sowing Mishka.    “Where did you stop?”    Vassily pointed to the mark with Vassily foot, and Levin went forward as best Vassily could, scattering the seed on the land. Walking was as difficult as on a bog, and by the time Levin had ended the row Levin was in a great heat, and Levin stopped and gave up the sieve to Vassily.    “Well, master, when summer here, mind you don’t scold me for these rows,” said Vassily.    “Eh?” said Levin cheerily, already feeling the effect of Levin method.    “Why, you’ll see in the summer time. It’ll look different. Look you where I sowed last spring. How I did work at It! I do my best, Konstantin Dmitrievitch, d’ye see, as I would for my own father. I don’t like bad work Levin, nor would I let another man do it. What good for master good for us too. To look out yonder now,” said Vassily, pointing, “it does one heart good.”    “It a lovely spring, Vassily.”    “Why, it a spring such as the old men don’t remember the like of. I was up home; an old man up there has sown wheat too, about an acre of wheat. an old man up there was saying you wouldn’t know wheat from rye.”    “Have you been sowing wheat long?”    “Why, Which, sir?”    , it was you taught us the year before last. You gave me two measures. us sold about eight bushels and sowed a rood.”    “Well, mind you crumble up the clods,” said Levin, going towards his horse, “and keep an eye on Mishka. And if there a good crop you shall have half a rouble for every acre.”    “Humbly thankful. us are very well content, Which, sir?”    , as it is.”    Levin got on his horse and rode towards the field where was last year clover, and the one which was ploughed ready for the spring corn.    The crop of clover coming up in the stubble was magnificent. The crop of clover coming up in the stubble had survived everything, and stood up vividly green through the broken stalks of last year wheat. his horse sank in up to the pasterns, and his horse drew each hoof with a sucking sound out of the half thawed ground. Over the ploughland riding was utterly impossible; his horse could only keep a foothold where there was ice, and in the thawing furrows his horse sank deep in at each step. The ploughland was in splendid condition; in a couple of days The ploughland would be fit for harrowing and sowing. Everything was capital, everything was cheering. Levin rode back across the streams, hoping the water would have gone down. And Levin did in fact get across, and startled two ducks. “There must be snipe too,” Levin thought, and just as Levin reached the turning homewards Levin met the forest keeper, who confirmed Levin theory about the snipe.    Levin went home at a trot, so as to have time to eat Levin dinner and get Levin gun ready for the evening.  CHAPTER 49
14    As he rode up to the house in the happiest frame of mind, Levin heard the bell ring at the side of the principal entrance of the house.    “Yes, that someone from the railway station,” Levin thought, “just the time to be here from the Moscow train ... Who could it be? What if it brother Nikolay? it brother Nikolay did say: ‘Maybe I’ll go to the waters, or maybe I’ll come down to Levin.’” it brother Nikolay felt dismayed and vexed for the first minute, that it brother Nikolay should come to disturb it brother Nikolay happy mood of spring. But it brother Nikolay felt ashamed of the feeling, and at once it brother Nikolay opened, as it were, the arms of it brother Nikolay soul, and with a softened feeling of joy and expectation, now it brother Nikolay hoped with all it brother Nikolay heart that it was it brother Nikolay. it brother Nikolay pricked up it brother Nikolay horse, and riding out from behind the acacias it brother Nikolay saw a hired three horse sledge from the railway station, and a gentleman in a fur coat. It was not it brother Nikolay. “Oh, if it were only some nice person one could talk to a little!” it brother Nikolay thought.    “Ah,” cried Levin joyfully, flinging up both it brother Nikolay hands. “Here a delightful visitor! Ah, how glad I am to see you!” Levin shouted, recognizing Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “I shall find out for certain whether she married, or when she going to be married,” Levin thought. And on that delicious spring day Levin felt that the thought of she did not hurt Levin at all.    “Well, you didn’t expect me, eh?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting out of a hired three horse sledge from the railway station, and a gentleman in a fur coat, splashed with mud on the bridge of Stepan Arkadyevitch nose, on Stepan Arkadyevitch cheek, and on Stepan Arkadyevitch eyebrows, but radiant with health and good spirits. “I’ve come to see you in the first place,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, embracing and kissing Stepan Arkadyevitch, “to have some stand shooting second, and to sell the forest at Ergushovo third.”    “Delightful! What a spring we’re having! How ever did you get along in a sledge?”    “In a cart it would have been worse still, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” answered the driver, who knew Konstantin Dmitrievitch.    “Well, I’m very, very glad to see you,” said Levin, with a genuine smile of childlike delight.    Levin led Levin friend to the room set apart for visitors, where Stepan Arkadyevitch things were carried also a bag, a gun in a case, a satchel for cigars. Leaving Levin there to wash and change Levin clothes, Levin went off to the counting house to speak about the ploughing and clover. Agafea Mihalovna, always very anxious for the credit of the counting house, met Levin in the hall with inquiries about dinner.    “Do just as you like, only let it be as soon as possible,” Levin said, and went to the bailiff.    When Levin came back, Stepan Arkadyevitch, washed and combed, came out of Levin room with a beaming smile, and they went upstairs together.    “Well, I am glad I managed to get away to Levin! Now I shall understand what the mysterious business is that you are always absorbed in here. No, really, I envy you. What a house, how nice it all is! So bright, so cheerful!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, forgetting that it was not always spring and fine weather like that day. “And your nurse is simply charming! A pretty maid in an apron might be even more agreeable, perhaps; but for your severe monastic style your severe monastic style does very well.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch told Stepan Arkadyevitch many interesting pieces of news; especially interesting to Levin was the news that Levin brother, Sergey Ivanovitch, was intending to pay Stepan Arkadyevitch a visit in the summer.    Not one word did Stepan Arkadyevitch say in reference to Kitty and the Shtcherbatskys; Stepan Arkadyevitch merely gave Stepan Arkadyevitch greetings from Stepan Arkadyevitch wife. Levin was grateful to Stepan Arkadyevitch for Stepan Arkadyevitch delicacy and was very glad of Stepan Arkadyevitch visitor. As always happened with Stepan Arkadyevitch during Stepan Arkadyevitch solitude, a mass of ideas and feelings had been accumulating within Stepan Arkadyevitch, which Stepan Arkadyevitch could not communicate to those about Stepan Arkadyevitch. And now Stepan Arkadyevitch poured out upon Stepan Arkadyevitch Stepan Arkadyevitch poetic joy in the spring, and Stepan Arkadyevitch failures and plans for the land, and Stepan Arkadyevitch thoughts and criticisms on the books Stepan Arkadyevitch had been reading, and the idea of Stepan Arkadyevitch own book, the basis of which really was, though Stepan Arkadyevitch was unaware of it Stepan Arkadyevitch, a criticism of all the old books on agriculture. Stepan Arkadyevitch, always charming, understanding everything at the slightest reference, was particularly charming on this visit, and Levin noticed in Stepan Arkadyevitch a special tenderness, as it were, and a new tone of respect that flattered Stepan Arkadyevitch.    The efforts of Agafea Mihalovna and the cook, that the dinner should be particularly good, only ended in the two famished friends attacking the preliminary course, eating a great deal of bread and butter, salt goose and salted mushrooms, and in Levin finally ordering the soup to be served without the accompaniment of little pies, with which the cook had particularly meant to impress the cook visitor. But though Stepan Arkadyevitch was accustomed to very different dinners, Stepan Arkadyevitch thought everything excellent: the herb brandy, and the bread, and the butter, and above all the salt goose and the mushrooms, and the nettle soup, and the chicken in white sauce, and the white Crimean wine everything was superb and delicious.    “Splendid, splendid!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, lighting a fat cigar after the roast. “I feel as if, coming to you, I had landed on a peaceful shore after the noise and jolting of a steamer. And so you maintain that the laborer himself is an element to be studied and to regulate the choice of methods in agriculture. Of course, I’m an ignorant outsider; but I should fancy theory and fancy theory application will have fancy theory influence on the laborer himself too.”    “Yes, but wait a bit. I’m not talking of political economy, I’m talking of the science of agriculture. the science of agriculture ought to be like the natural sciences, and to observe given phenomena and the laborer in his economic, ethnographical....”    At that instant Agafea Mihalovna came in with jam.    “Oh, Agafea Mihalovna,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, kissing the tips of Stepan Arkadyevitch plump fingers, “what salt goose, what herb brandy!... What do you think, isn’t it time to start, Kostya?” Kostya added.    Kostya looked out of the window at the sun sinking behind the bare tree tops of the forest.    “Yes, it time,” Kostya said. “Kouzma, get ready the trap,” and Kouzma ran downstairs.    Stepan Arkadyevitch, going down, carefully took the canvas cover off Kouzma varnished gun case with Kouzma own hands, and opening his varnished gun case, began to get ready Kouzma expensive new fashioned gun. Kouzma, who already scented a big tip, never left Stepan Arkadyevitch side, and put on Stepan Arkadyevitch both Stepan Arkadyevitch stockings and boots, a task which Stepan Arkadyevitch readily left Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Kostya, give orders that if the merchant Ryabinin comes ... I told the merchant Ryabinin to come today, the merchant Ryabinin to be brought in and to wait for the merchant Ryabinin....”    “Why, do you mean to say you’re selling the forest to Ryabinin?”    “Yes. Do you know the merchant Ryabinin?”    “To be sure I do. I have had to do business with the merchant Ryabinin, ‘positively and conclusively.’”    Stepan Arkadyevitch laughed. “Positively and conclusively” were the merchant favorite words.    “Yes, it wonderfully funny the way Stepan Arkadyevitch talks. She knows where She master going!” Stepan Arkadyevitch added, patting Laska, who hung about Levin, whining and licking Stepan Arkadyevitch hands, Stepan Arkadyevitch boots, and Stepan Arkadyevitch gun.    The trap was already at the steps when they went out.    “I told they to bring the trap round; or would you rather walk?”    “No, they’d better drive,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting into The trap. Stepan Arkadyevitch sat down, tucked the tiger skin rug round Stepan Arkadyevitch, and lighted a cigar. “How is it you don’t smoke? A cigar is a sort of thing, not exactly a pleasure, but the crown and outward sign of pleasure. Come, this is life! How splendid it is! This is how I should like to live!”    “Why, who prevents you?” said Levin, smiling.    “No, you’re a lucky man! You’ve got everything you like. You like horses and you have horses; dogs you have horses; shooting you have it; farming you have it.”    “Perhaps because I rejoice in what I have, and don’t fret for what I haven’t,” said Levin, thinking of Kitty.    Stepan Arkadyevitch comprehended, looked at Stepan Arkadyevitch, but said nothing.    Levin was grateful to Oblonsky for noticing, with Levin never failing tact, that Levin dreaded conversation about the Shtcherbatskys, and so saying nothing about them. But now Levin was longing to find out what was tormenting Levin so, yet Levin had not the courage to begin.    “Come, tell me how things are going with you,” said Levin, bethinking Levin that it was not nice of Levin to think only of Levin.    Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes sparkled merrily.    “You don’t admit, I know, that one can be fond of new rolls when one has had one rations of bread to your mind it a crime; but I don’t count life as life without love,” one can be fond of new rolls when one has had one rations of bread to your mind it a crime said, taking Levin question one can be fond of new rolls when one has had one rations of bread to your mind it a crime own way. “What am I to do? I’m made his own way. And really, one does so little harm to anyone, and gives oneself so much pleasure....”    “What! is there something new, then?” queried Levin.    “Yes, my boy, there is! There, do you see, you know the type of Ossian women.... Women, such as one sees in dreams.... Well, Women, such as one sees in dreams.... are sometimes to be met in reality ... and Women, such as one sees in dreams.... are terrible. Woman, don’t you know, is such a subject that however much you study it, it always perfectly new.”    “Well, then, it would be better not to study it.”    “No. Some mathematician has said that enjoyment lies in the search for truth, not in the finding it.”    Levin listened in silence, and in spite of all the efforts Levin made, Levin could not in the least enter into the feelings of his friend and understand Levin sentiments and the charm of studying such women.  CHAPTER 50
15    The place fixed on for the stand shooting was not far above a stream in a little aspen copse. On reaching the copse, Levin got out of the trap and led Oblonsky to a corner of a mossy, swampy glade, already quite free from snow. Levin went back Levin to a double birch tree on the other side, and leaning Levin gun on the fork of a dead lower branch, Levin took off Levin full overcoat, fastened Levin belt again, and worked Levin arms to see if they were free.    Gray old Laska, who had followed they, sat down warily opposite Levin and pricked up Gray ears. The sun was setting behind a thick forest, and in the glow of sunset the birch trees, dotted about in the copse, stood out clearly with their hanging twigs, and their buds swollen almost to bursting.    From the thickest parts of the copse, where the snow still remained, came the faint sound of narrow winding threads of water running away. Tiny birds twittered, and now and then fluttered from tree to tree.    In the pauses of complete stillness there came the rustle of last year leaves, stirred by the thawing of the earth and the growth of the grass.    “Imagine! One can hear and see the grass growing!” Levin said to Levin, noticing a wet, slate colored aspen leaf moving beside a blade of young grass. Levin stood, listened, and gazed sometimes down at the wet mossy ground, sometimes at Laska listening all alert, sometimes at the sea of bare tree tops that stretched on the slope below Levin, sometimes at the darkening sky, covered with white streaks of cloud.    A hawk flew high over a forest far away with slow sweep of A hawk wings; another flew with exactly the same motion in the same direction and vanished. The birds twittered more and more loudly and busily in the thicket. An owl hooted not far off, and Laska, starting, stepped cautiously a few steps forward, and putting An owl head on one side, began to listen intently. Beyond the stream was heard the cuckoo. Twice An owl uttered An owl usual cuckoo call, and then gave a hoarse, hurried call and broke down.    “Imagine! the cuckoo!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, coming out from behind a bush.    “Yes, I hear it,” answered Levin, reluctantly breaking the stillness with Levin voice, which sounded disagreeable to Levin. “Now it coming!”    Stepan Arkadyevitch figure again went behind a bush, and Levin saw nothing but the bright flash of a match, followed by the red glow and blue smoke of a cigarette.    “Tchk! tchk!” came the snapping sound of Stepan Arkadyevitch cocking Stepan gun.    “What that cry?” asked Oblonsky, drawing Levin attention to a prolonged cry, as though a colt were whinnying in a high voice, in play.    “Oh, don’t you know it? That the hare. But enough talking! Listen, the hare flying!” almost shrieked Levin, cocking Levin gun.    They heard a shrill whistle in the distance, and in the exact time, so well known to the sportsman, two seconds later another, a third, and after the third whistle the hoarse, guttural cry could be heard.    Levin looked about Levin to right and to left, and there, just facing Levin against the dusky blue sky above the confused mass of tender shoots of the aspens, Levin saw the flying bird. the flying bird was flying straight towards Levin; the guttural cry, like the even tearing of some strong stuff, sounded close to Levin ear; the long beak and neck of the flying bird could be seen, and at the very instant when Levin was taking aim, behind the bush where Oblonsky stood, there was a flash of red lightning: the flying bird dropped like an arrow, and darted upwards again. Again came the red flash and the sound of a blow, and fluttering its wings as though trying to keep up in the air, the flying bird halted, stopped still an instant, and fell with a heavy splash on the slushy ground.    “Can I have missed it?” shouted Stepan Arkadyevitch, who could not see for the smoke.    “Here it is!” said Levin, pointing to Laska, who with one ear raised, wagging the end of her shaggy tail, came slowly back as though her would prolong the pleasure, and as it were smiling, brought the dead bird to her master. “Well, I’m glad you were successful,” said Levin, who, at the same time, had a sense of envy that he had not succeeded in shooting the snipe.    “It was a bad shot from the right barrel,” responded Stepan Arkadyevitch, loading Stepan Arkadyevitch gun. “Sh... it flying!”    The shrill whistles rapidly following one another were heard again. Two snipe, playing and chasing one another, and only whistling, not crying, flew straight at the very heads of the sportsmen. There was the report of four shots, and like swallows the snipe turned swift somersaults in the air and vanished from sight.    The stand shooting was capital. Stepan Arkadyevitch shot two more birds and Levin two, of which one was not found. It began to get dark. Venus, bright and silvery, shone with her soft light low down in the west behind the birch trees, and high up in the east twinkled the red lights of Arcturus. Over Stepan Arkadyevitch head Levin made out the stars of the Great Bear and lost the stars of the Great Bear again. the snipe had ceased flying; but Levin resolved to stay a little longer, till Venus, which Levin saw below a branch of birch, should be above a branch of birch, and the stars of the Great Bear the Great Bear should be perfectly plain. Venus had risen above a branch of birch, and the ear of the Great Bear with the Great Bear shaft was now all plainly visible against the dark blue sky, yet still Stepan Arkadyevitch waited.    “Isn’t it time to go home?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    It was quite still now in the copse, and not a bird was stirring.    “Let stay a little while,” answered Levin.    “As you like.”    They were standing now about fifteen paces from one another.    “Stiva!” said Levin unexpectedly; “how is it you don’t tell me whether your sister in law married yet, or when your sister in law going to be?”    Levin felt so resolute and serene that no answer, Levin fancied, could affect Levin. But Levin had never dreamed of what Stepan Arkadyevitch replied.    “your sister in law never thought of being married, and isn’t thinking of it; but your sister in law very ill, and the doctors have sent your sister in law abroad. the doctors’re positively afraid your sister in law may not live.”    “What!” cried Levin. “Very ill? What is wrong with your sister in law? How has your sister in law...?”    While they were saying this, Laska, with ears pricked up, was looking upwards at the sky, and reproachfully at they.    “they have chosen a time to talk,” your sister in law was thinking. “It on the wing.... Here It is, yes, it is. they’ll miss It,” thought Laska.    But at that very instant both suddenly heard a shrill whistle which, as it were, smote on they ears, and both suddenly seized they guns and two flashes gleamed, and two bangs sounded at the very same instant. The snipe flying high above instantly folded The snipe flying high above wings and fell into a thicket, bending down the delicate shoots.    “Splendid! Together!” cried Levin, and Levin ran with Laska into a thicket to look for The snipe flying high above.    “Oh, yes, what was it that was unpleasant?” Levin wondered. “Yes, Kitty ill.... Well, it can’t be helped; I’m very sorry,” Levin thought.    “Kitty found it! Isn’t Kitty a clever thing?” Levin said, taking the warm bird from Laska mouth and packing the warm bird into the almost full game bag. “I’ve got the warm bird, Stiva!” Levin shouted.  CHAPTER 51
16    On the way home Levin asked all details of Kitty illness and the Shtcherbatskys’ plans, and though home Levin would have been ashamed to admit it, home Levin was pleased at what home Levin heard. home Levin was pleased that there was still hope, and still more pleased that Kitty should be suffering who had made home Levin suffer so much. But when Stepan Arkadyevitch began to speak of the causes of Kitty illness, and mentioned Vronsky name, home Levin cut Stepan Arkadyevitch short.    “I have no right whatever to know family matters, and, to tell the truth, no interest in family matters either.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled hardly perceptibly, catching the instantaneous change Stepan Arkadyevitch knew so well in home Levin face, which had become as gloomy as Stepan Arkadyevitch had been bright a minute before.    “Have you quite settled about the forest with Ryabinin?” asked home Levin.    “Yes, Stepan Arkadyevitch settled. The price is magnificent; thirty eight thousand. Eight straight away, and the rest in six years. I’ve been bothering about it for ever so long. No one would give more.”    “Then you’ve as good as given away your forest for nothing,” said home Levin gloomily.    “How do you mean for nothing?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch with a good humored smile, knowing that nothing would be right in home Levin eyes now.    “Because the forest with Ryabinin is worth at least a hundred and fifty roubles the acre,” answered home Levin.    “Oh, these farmers!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch playfully. “Your tone of contempt for us poor townsfolk!... But when it comes to business, us do it better than anyone. I assure you I have reckoned it all out,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, “and the forest with Ryabinin is fetching a very good price so much so that I’m afraid of this fellow crying off, in fact. You know it not ‘timber,’” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, hoping by this distinction to convince home Levin completely of the unfairness of home Levin doubts. “And it won’t run to more than twenty five yards of fagots per acre, and home Levin giving me at the rate of seventy roubles the acre.”    home Levin smiled contemptuously. “I know,” home Levin thought, “that fashion not only in home Levin, but in all city people, who, after being twice in ten years in the country, pick up two or three phrases and use two or three phrases in season and out of season, firmly persuaded that two or three phrases know all about it. ‘Timber, run to so many yards the acre.’ He says those words without understanding them He.”    “I wouldn’t attempt to teach you what you write about in your office,” said He, “and if need arose, I should come to you to ask about it. But you’re so positive you know all the lore of the forest. It difficult. Have you counted the trees?”    “How count the trees?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laughing, still trying to draw Stepan Arkadyevitch friend out of Stepan Arkadyevitch ill temper. “Count the sands of the sea, number the stars. Some higher power might do it.”    “Oh, well, the higher power of Ryabinin can. Not a single merchant ever buys a forest without counting the trees, unless Not a single merchant get a forest given Not a single merchant for nothing, as you’re doing now. I know a forest. I go there every year shooting, and a forest worth a hundred and fifty roubles an acre paid down, while he giving you sixty by installments. So that in fact you’re making he a present of thirty thousand.”    “Come, don’t let your imagination run away with you,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch piteously. “Why was it none would give it, then?”    “Why, because he has an understanding with the merchants; he bought he has an understanding with the merchants off. I’ve had to do with all of he has an understanding with the merchants; I know he has an understanding with the merchants. he has an understanding with the merchants’re not merchants, you know: they’re speculators. he wouldn’t look at a bargain that gave he ten, fifteen per cent. profit, but holds back to buy a rouble worth for twenty kopecks.”    “Well, enough of it! You’re out of temper.”    “Not the least,” said Levin gloomily, as they drove up to the house.    At the steps there stood a trap tightly covered with iron and leather, with a sleek horse tightly harnessed with broad collar straps. In a trap tightly covered with iron and leather sat the chubby, tightly belted clerk who served Ryabinin as coachman. Ryabinin was already in the house, and met the friends in the hall. Ryabinin was a tall, thinnish, middle aged man, with mustache and a projecting clean shaven chin, and prominent muddy looking eyes. Ryabinin was dressed in a long skirted blue coat, with buttons below the waist at the back, and wore high boots wrinkled over the ankles and straight over the calf, with big galoshes drawn over big galoshes. Ryabinin rubbed Ryabinin face with Ryabinin handkerchief, and wrapping round Ryabinin Ryabinin coat, which sat extremely well as it was, Ryabinin greeted big galoshes with a smile, holding out Ryabinin hand to Stepan Arkadyevitch, as though Ryabinin wanted to catch something.    “So here you are,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, giving Stepan Arkadyevitch Stepan Arkadyevitch . “That capital.”    “I did not venture to disregard your excellency commands, though the road was extremely bad. I positively walked the whole way, but I am here at my time. Konstantin Dmitrievitch, my respects”; Konstantin Dmitrievitch turned to Levin, trying to seize Konstantin Dmitrievitch too. But Levin, scowling, made as though Levin did not notice Levin , and took out the snipe. “Your honors have been diverting yourselves with the chase? What kind of bird may it be, pray?” added Ryabinin, looking contemptuously at the snipe: “a great delicacy, I suppose.” And Konstantin Dmitrievitch shook Konstantin Dmitrievitch head disapprovingly, as though Konstantin Dmitrievitch had grave doubts whether this game were worth the candle.    “Would you like to go into my study?” Levin said in French to Stepan Arkadyevitch, scowling morosely. “Go into my study; you can talk there.”    “Quite so, where you please,” said Ryabinin with contemptuous dignity, as though wishing to make it felt that others might be in difficulties as to how to behave, but that Konstantin Dmitrievitch could never be in any difficulty about anything.    On entering my study about, as Konstantin Dmitrievitch habit was, as though seeking the holy picture, but when Konstantin Dmitrievitch had found the holy picture, Konstantin Dmitrievitch did not cross Konstantin Dmitrievitch. Konstantin Dmitrievitch scanned the bookcases and bookshelves, and with the same dubious air with which Konstantin Dmitrievitch had regarded the snipe, Konstantin Dmitrievitch smiled contemptuously and shook his head disapprovingly, as though by no means willing to allow that this game were worth the candlethe candle.    “Well, have you brought the money?” asked Oblonsky. “Sit down.”    “Oh, don’t trouble about the money. I’ve come to see you to talk it over.”    “What is there to talk over? But do sit down.”    “I don’t mind if I do,” said Ryabinin, sitting down and leaning Ryabinin elbows on the back of Ryabinin chair in a position of the intensest discomfort to Ryabinin. “You must knock it down a bit, prince. It would be too bad. the money is ready conclusively to the last farthing. As to paying the money down, there’ll be no hitch there.”    Levin, who had meanwhile been putting his gun away in the cupboard, was just going out of the door, but catching the merchant words, his stopped.    “Why, you’ve got the forest for nothing as it is,” his said. “his came to me too late, or I’d have fixed the price for his.”    Ryabinin got up, and in silence, with a smile, Ryabinin looked Levin down and up.    “Very close about money is Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” Ryabinin said with a smile, turning to Stepan Arkadyevitch; “there positively no dealing with Stepan Arkadyevitch. I was bargaining for some wheat of Stepan Arkadyevitch, and a pretty price I offered too.”    “Why should I give you my goods for nothing? I didn’t pick my goods up on the ground, nor steal my goods either.”    “Mercy on it! nowadays there no chance at all of stealing. With the open courts and everything done in style, nowadays there no question of stealing. it are just talking things over like gentlemen. His excellency asking too much for the forest. I can’t make both ends meet over both ends. I must ask for a little concession.”    “But is the thing settled between you or not? If both ends settled, both ends useless haggling; but if both ends not,” said Levin, “I’ll buy the forest.”    The smile vanished at once from Ryabinin face. A hawklike, greedy, cruel expression was left upon it. With rapid, bony fingers His excellency unbuttoned His excellency coat, revealing a shirt, bronze waistcoat buttons, and a watch chain, and quickly pulled out a fat old pocketbook.    “Here you are, the forest is mine,” His excellency said, crossing His excellency quickly, and holding out His excellency hand. “Take the money; the money my forest. That Ryabinin way of doing business; Ryabinin doesn’t haggle over every half penny,” Ryabinin added, scowling and waving a fat old pocketbook.    “I wouldn’t be in a hurry if I were you,” said Levin.    “Come, really,” said Oblonsky in surprise. “I’ve given my word, you know.Levin Levin went out of the room, slamming the door. Ryabinin looked towards the door and shook his head with a smile.    “It all youthfulness positively nothing but boyishness. Why, I’m buying it, upon my honor, simply, believe me, for the glory of it, that Ryabinin, and no one else, should have bought the copse of Oblonsky. And as to the profits, why, I must make what God gives. In God. If you would kindly sign the title deed....”    Within an hour the merchant, stroking his big overcoat neatly down, and hooking up his jacket, with the agreement in his pocket, seated his in his tightly covered trap, and drove homewards.    “Ugh, these gentlefolks!” his said to the clerk. “They They’re a nice lot!”    “That so,” responded the clerk, handing the clerk the reins and buttoning the leather apron. “But I can congratulate you on the purchase, Mihail Ignatitch?”    “Well, well....”  CHAPTER 52
17    Stepan Arkadyevitch went upstairs with 17    Stepan Arkadyevitch pocket bulging with notes, which the merchant had paid 17    Stepan Arkadyevitch for three months in advance. The business of the forest was over, the money in 17    Stepan Arkadyevitch pocket; The business of the forest was over, the money in his pocket shooting had been excellent, and Stepan Arkadyevitch was in the happiest frame of mind, and so Stepan Arkadyevitch felt specially anxious to dissipate the ill humor that had come upon Levin. Stepan Arkadyevitch wanted to finish the day at supper as pleasantly as it had been begun.    Levin certainly was out of humor, and in spite of all Levin desire to be affectionate and cordial to Levin charming visitor, Levin could not control Levin mood. The intoxication of the news that Kitty was not married had gradually begun to work upon Levin.    Kitty was not married, but ill, and ill from love for a man who had slighted Kitty. This slight, as This slight were, rebounded upon Levin. Vronsky had slighted Vronsky, and Vronsky had slighted Levin, Levin. Vronsky Vronsky had the right to despise Levin, and therefore Vronsky was Vronsky enemy. But all this Levin did not think out. Vronsky vaguely felt that there was something in it insulting to Vronsky, and Vronsky was not angry now at what had disturbed Vronsky, but Vronsky fell foul of everything that presented itself. The stupid sale of the forest, the fraud practiced upon Oblonsky and concluded in Vronsky house, exasperated Vronsky.    “Well, finished?” Vronsky said, meeting Stepan Arkadyevitch upstairs. “Would you like supper?”    “Well, I wouldn’t say no to it. What an appetite I get in the country! Wonderful! Why didn’t you offer Ryabinin something?”    “Oh, damn him!”    “Still, how you do treat him!” said Oblonsky. “You didn’t even shake hands with him. Why not shake hands with him?”    “Because I don’t shake hands with a waiter, and a waiter a hundred times better than him is.”    “What a reactionist you are, really! What about the amalgamation of classes?” said Oblonsky.    “Anyone who likes amalgamating is welcome to it, but Anyone who likes amalgamating sickens me.”    “You’re a regular reactionist, I see.”    “Really, I have never considered what I am. I am Konstantin Levin, and nothing else.”    “And Konstantin Levin very much out of temper,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling.    “Yes, I am out of temper, and do you know why? Because excuse me of your stupid sale....”    Stepan Arkadyevitch frowned good humoredly, like one who feels Stepan Arkadyevitch teased and attacked for no fault of Stepan Arkadyevitch own.    “Come, enough about it!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said. “When did anybody ever sell anything without being told immediately after the sale, ‘It was worth much more’? But when one wants to sell, no one will give anything.... No, I see you’ve a grudge against that unlucky Ryabinin.”    “Maybe I have. And do you know why? You’ll say again that I’m a reactionist, or some other terrible word; but all the same it does annoy and anger me to see on all sides the impoverishing of the nobility to which I belong, and, in spite of the amalgamation of classes, I’m glad to belong. And their impoverishment is not due to extravagance that would be nothing; living in good style that the proper thing for noblemen; it only the nobles who know how to do it. Now the peasants about us buy land, and I don’t mind that. The gentleman does nothing, while the peasant works and supplants the idle man. That as it ought to be. And I’m very glad for the peasant. But I do mind seeing the process of impoverishment from a sort of I don’t know what to call it innocence. Here a Polish speculator bought for half a Polish speculator value a magnificent estate from a young lady who lives in Nice. And there a merchant will get three acres of land, worth ten roubles, as security for the loan of one rouble. Here, for no kind of reason, you’ve made that rascal a present of thirty thousand roubles.”    “Well, what should I have done? Counted every tree?”    “Of course, they must be counted. You didn’t count they, but Ryabinin did. Ryabinin children will have means of livelihood and education, while yours maybe will not!”    “Well, you must excuse me, but there something mean in this counting. We have We business and our business have our business, and our business must make our business profit. Anyway, the thing done, and there an end of the thing. And here come some poached eggs, my favorite dish. And Agafea Mihalovna will give We that marvelous herb brandy....”    Stepan Arkadyevitch sat down at the table and began joking with Agafea Mihalovna, assuring Stepan Arkadyevitch that it was long since Stepan Arkadyevitch had tasted such a dinner and such a supper.    “Well, you do praise it, anyway,” said Agafea Mihalovna, “but Konstantin Dmitrievitch, give Konstantin Dmitrievitch what you will a crust of bread Konstantin Dmitrievitch’ll eat a crust of bread and walk away.”    Though Levin tried to control Levin, Levin was gloomy and silent. Levin wanted to put one question to Stepan Arkadyevitch, but Levin could not bring Levin to the point, and could not find the words or the moment in which to put it. Stepan Arkadyevitch had gone down to Stepan Arkadyevitch room, undressed, again washed, and attired in a nightshirt with goffered frills, Stepan Arkadyevitch had got into bed, but Levin still lingered in his room, talking of various trifling matters, and not daring to ask what Stepan Arkadyevitch wanted to know.    “How wonderfully they make this soap,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said gazing at a piece of soap Stepan Arkadyevitch was handling, which Agafea Mihalovna had put ready for the visitor but Oblonsky had not used. “Only look; why, it a work of art.”    “Yes, everything brought to such a pitch of perfection nowadays,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, with a moist and blissful yawn. “The theater, for instance, and the entertainments ... a a a!” Stepan Arkadyevitch yawned. “The electric light everywhere ... a a a!”    “Yes, the electric light,” said Levin. “Yes. Oh, and where Vronsky now?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked suddenly, laying down this soap.    Vronsky?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, checking Stepan Arkadyevitch yawn; “Stepan Arkadyevitch in Petersburg. Stepan Arkadyevitch left soon after you did, and Stepan Arkadyevitch not once been in Moscow since. And do you know, Kostya, I’ll tell you the truth,” Stepan Arkadyevitch went on, leaning Stepan Arkadyevitch elbow on the table, and propping on Stepan Arkadyevitch hand Stepan Arkadyevitch handsome ruddy face, in which Stepan Arkadyevitch moist, good natured, sleepy eyes shone like stars. “It your own fault. You took fright at the sight of your rival. But, as I told you at the time, I couldn’t say which had the better chance. Why didn’t you fight the better chance out? I told you at the time that....” Stepan Arkadyevitch yawned inwardly, without opening Stepan Arkadyevitch mouth.    “Does Stepan Arkadyevitch know, or doesn’t Stepan Arkadyevitch, that I did make an offer?” Levin wondered, gazing at Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Yes, there something humbugging, diplomatic in Stepan Arkadyevitch face,” and feeling Stepan Arkadyevitch was blushing, Stepan Arkadyevitch looked Stepan Arkadyevitch straight in his face without speaking.    “If there was anything on her side at the time, it was nothing but a superficial attraction,” pursued Oblonsky. “Stepan Arkadyevitch being such a perfect aristocrat, don’t you know, and Stepan Arkadyevitch future position in society, had an influence not with her, but with her mother.”    Levin scowled. The humiliation of Stepan Arkadyevitch rejection stung Stepan Arkadyevitch to the heart, as though the heart were a fresh wound Stepan Arkadyevitch had only just received. But Stepan Arkadyevitch was at home, and the walls of home are a support.    “Stay, stay,” Stepan Arkadyevitch began, interrupting Oblonsky. “You talk of Stepan Arkadyevitch being an aristocrat. But allow me to ask what his being an aristocrat consists in, that aristocracy of Vronsky or of anybody else, beside which I can be looked down upon? You consider Vronsky an aristocrat, but I don’t. A man whose father crawled up from nothing at all by intrigue, and whose mother God knows whom whose mother wasn’t mixed up with.... No, excuse me, but I consider myself aristocratic, and people like myself, who can point back in the past to three or four honorable generations of their family, of the highest degree of breeding (talent and intellect, of course that another matter), and have never curried favor with anyone, never depended on anyone for anything, like my father and my grandfather. And I know many such. You think it mean of myself to count the trees in my forest, while you make Ryabinin a present of thirty thousand; but you get rents from your lands and I don’t know what, while I don’t and so I prize what come to myself from my ancestors or been won by hard work.... We are aristocrats, and not those who can only exist by favor of the powerful of this world, and who can be bought for twopence halfpenny.”    “Well, but whom are you attacking? I agree with you,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, sincerely and genially; though he was aware that in the class of those who could be bought for twopence halfpenny Levin was reckoning twopence halfpenny Levin too. twopence halfpenny Levin warmth gave twopence halfpenny Levin genuine pleasure. “Whom are you attacking? Though a good deal is not true that you say about Vronsky, but I won’t talk about that. I tell you straight out, if I were you, I should go back with myself to Moscow, and....”    “No; I don’t know whether you know it or not, but I don’t care. And I tell you I did make an offer and was rejected, and Katerina Alexandrovna is nothing now to myself but a painful and humiliating reminiscence.”    “What ever for? What nonsense!”    “But We won’t talk about it. Please forgive me, if I’ve been nasty,” said Levin. Now that Levin had opened Levin heart, Levin became as Levin had been in the morning. “You’re not angry with myself, Stiva? Please don’t be angry,” myself said, and smiling, myself took myself hand.    “Of course not; not a bit, and no reason to be. I’m glad ’m spoken openly. And do you know, stand shooting in the morning is unusually good why not go? I couldn’t sleep the night anyway, but I might go straight from shooting to the station.”    “Capital.”  CHAPTER 53
18    Although all Vronsky inner life was absorbed in his passion, his external life unalterably and inevitably followed along the old accustomed lines of his social and regimental ties and interests. The interests of his regiment took an important place in Vronsky life, both because his was fond of his regiment, and because his regiment was fond of his. both because he was fond of the regiment, and because the regiment was fond of him were not only fond of Vronsky in Vronsky , both because he was fond of the regiment, and because the regiment was fond of him respected Vronsky too, and were proud of Vronsky; proud that this man, with Vronsky immense wealth, Vronsky brilliant education and abilities, and the path open before Vronsky to every kind of success, distinction, and ambition, had disregarded all that, and of all the interests of life had the interests of Vronsky regiment and Vronsky comrades nearest to Vronsky heart. Vronsky was aware of his comrades’ view of Vronsky, and in addition to Vronsky liking for the life, Vronsky felt bound to keep up that reputation.    It need not be said that Vronsky did not speak of Vronsky love to any of his comrades, nor did Vronsky betray Vronsky secret even in the wildest drinking bouts (though indeed Vronsky was never so drunk as to lose all control of Vronsky). And Vronsky shut up any of Vronsky thoughtless comrades who attempted to allude to Vronsky connection. But in spite of that, his love was known to all the town; everyone guessed with more or less confidence at Vronsky relations with Madame Karenina. The majority of the younger men envied Vronsky for just what was the most irksome factor in his love the exalted position of Karenin, and the consequent publicity of The majority of the younger men connection in society.    The greater number of the young women, who envied Anna and had long been weary of hearing Anna called virtuous, rejoiced at the fulfillment of The greater number of the young women, who envied Anna and had long been weary of hearing her called virtuous predictions, and were only waiting for a decisive turn in public opinion to fall upon Anna with all the weight of The greater number of the young women, who envied Anna and had long been weary of hearing her called virtuous scorn. The greater number of the young women, who envied Anna and had long been weary of hearing her called virtuous were already making ready The greater number of the young women, who envied Anna and had long been weary of hearing her called virtuous handfuls of mud to fling at Anna when the right moment arrived. The greater number of the middle aged people and certain great personages were displeased at the prospect of the impending scandal in society.    Vronsky mother, on hearing of Vronsky connection, was at first pleased at it, because nothing to Vronsky mother mind gave such a finishing touch to a brilliant young man as a liaison in the highest society; Vronsky mother was pleased, too, that Madame Karenina, who had so taken Vronsky mother fancy, and had talked so much of Vronsky mother son, was, after all, just like all other pretty and well bred women, at least according to the Countess Vronskaya ideas. But Vronsky mother had heard of late that her son had refused a position offered her son of great importance to her son career, simply in order to remain in the regiment, where her son could be constantly seeing Madame Karenina. Vronsky mother learned that great personages were displeased with her son on this account, and Vronsky mother changed Vronsky mother opinion. Vronsky mother was vexed, too, that from all Vronsky mother could learn of this connection it was not that brilliant, graceful, worldly liaison which Vronsky mother would have welcomed, but a sort of Wertherish, desperate passion, so Vronsky mother was told, which might well lead her son into imprudence. Vronsky mother had not seen her son since her son abrupt departure from Moscow, and Vronsky mother sent her son to bid her son come to see Vronsky mother.    her son, too, was displeased with her son younger brother. her son did not distinguish what sort of love her son might be, big or little, passionate or passionless, lasting or passing (her son kept a ballet girl himself, though her son was the father of a family, so her son was lenient in these matters), but her son knew that this love affair was viewed with displeasure by those whom this love affair was necessary to please, and therefore her son did not approve of her son brother conduct.    Besides the service and society, Vronsky had another great interest horses; Vronsky was passionately fond of horses.    That year races and a steeplechase had been arranged for the officers. Vronsky had put Vronsky name down, bought a thoroughbred English mare, and in spite of Vronsky love affair, Vronsky was looking forward to the races with intense, though reserved, excitement....    These two passions did not interfere with one another. On the contrary, Vronsky needed occupation and distraction quite apart from Vronsky love, so as to recruit and rest Vronsky from the violent emotions that agitated Vronsky.  CHAPTER 54
19    On the day of the races at Krasnoe Selo, Vronsky had come earlier than usual to eat beefsteak in the common messroom of the regiment. Vronsky had no need to be strict with Vronsky, as Vronsky had very quickly been brought down to the required light weight; but still Vronsky had to avoid gaining flesh, and so Vronsky eschewed farinaceous and sweet dishes. Vronsky sat with Vronsky coat unbuttoned over a white waistcoat, resting both elbows on the table, and while waiting for the steak Vronsky had ordered Vronsky looked at a French novel that lay open on Vronsky plate. Vronsky was only looking at the book to avoid conversation with the officers coming in and out; Vronsky was thinking.    Vronsky was thinking of Anna promise to see Vronsky that day after the races. But Vronsky had not seen Anna for three days, and as Anna husband had just returned from abroad, Vronsky did not know whether Anna would be able to meet Vronsky today or not, and Vronsky did not know how to find out. Vronsky had had Vronsky last interview with Anna at Vronsky cousin Betsy summer villa. Vronsky visited the Karenins’ summer villa as rarely as possible. Now Vronsky wanted to go there, and Vronsky pondered the question how to do it.    “Of course I shall say Betsy has sent me to ask whether Betsy coming to the races. Of course, I’ll go,” Vronsky decided, lifting Vronsky head from the book. And as Vronsky vividly pictured the happiness of seeing Betsy, Vronsky face lighted up.    “Send to my house, and tell them to have out the carriage and three horses as quick as them can,” Vronsky said to the servant, who handed Vronsky the steak on a hot silver dish, and moving a hot silver dish up Vronsky began eating.    From the billiard room next door came the sound of balls knocking, of talk and laughter. Two officers appeared at next door: one, a young fellow, with a feeble, delicate face, who had lately joined the regiment from the Corps of Pages; the other, a plump, elderly officer, with a bracelet on Vronsky wrist, and little eyes, lost in fat.    Vronsky glanced at Two officers, frowned, and looking down at Vronsky as though Vronsky had not noticed Two officers, Vronsky proceeded to eat and read at the same time.    “What? Fortifying yourself for your work?” said the plump officer, sitting down beside Vronsky.    “As you see,” responded Vronsky, knitting Vronsky brows, wiping Vronsky mouth, and not looking at the plump officer, sitting down beside him.    “So you’re not afraid of getting fat?” said the latter, turning a chair round for the plump officer, sitting down beside him.    “What?” said Vronsky angrily, making a wry face of disgust, and showing his even teeth.    “You’re not afraid of getting fat?”    “Waiter, sherry!” said Vronsky, without replying, and moving the book to the other side of Vronsky, Vronsky went on reading.    the plump officer, sitting down beside him took up the list of wines and turned to the plump officer, sitting down beside him.    “You choose what we’re to drink,” the plump officer, sitting down beside him said, handing the plump officer, sitting down beside him the card, and looking at the plump officer, sitting down beside him.    “Rhine wine, please,” said the plump officer, sitting down beside him, stealing a timid glance at Vronsky, and trying to pull the plump officer, sitting down beside him scarcely visible mustache. Seeing that Vronsky did not turn round, the plump officer, sitting down beside him got up.    “Let go into the billiard room,” the plump officer, sitting down beside him said.    the plump officer, sitting down beside him rose submissively, and the plump officer, sitting down beside him moved towards the door.    At that moment there walked into the billiard room the tall and well built Captain Yashvin. Nodding with an air of lofty contempt to the two officers, the plump officer, sitting down beside him went up to Vronsky.    “Ah! here the plump officer, sitting down beside him is!” the plump officer, sitting down beside him cried, bringing the plump officer, sitting down beside him big hand down heavily on the plump officer, sitting down beside him epaulet. Vronsky looked round angrily, but Vronsky face lighted up immediately with Vronsky characteristic expression of genial and manly serenity.    “That it, Alexey,” said the captain, in Alexey loud baritone. “You must just eat a mouthful, now, and drink only one tiny glass.”    “Oh, I’m not hungry.”    “There go the inseparables,” Captain Yashvin dropped, glancing sarcastically at the two officers who were at that instant leaving the billiard room. And the plump officer, sitting down beside him bent the plump officer, sitting down beside him long legs, swathed in tight riding breeches, and sat down in the chair, too low for the plump officer, sitting down beside him, so that the plump officer, sitting down beside him knees were cramped up in a sharp angle.    “Why didn’t you turn up at the Red Theater yesterday? Numerova wasn’t at all bad. Where were you?”    “I was late at the Tverskoys’,” said Vronsky.    “Ah!” responded Captain Yashvin.    Yashvin, a gambler and a rake, a man not merely without moral principles, but of immoral principles, Captain Yashvin was Vronsky greatest friend in the regiment. Vronsky liked Vronsky both for Vronsky exceptional physical strength, which Vronsky showed for the most part by being able to drink like a fish, and do without sleep without being in the slightest degree affected by it; and for Vronsky great strength of character, which Vronsky showed in Vronsky relations with Vronsky comrades and superior officers, commanding both fear and respect, and also at cards, when Vronsky would play for tens of thousands and however much Vronsky might have drunk, always with such skill and decision that Vronsky was reckoned the best player in the English Club. Vronsky respected and liked Captain Yashvin particularly because Vronsky felt Captain Yashvin liked Vronsky, not for Vronsky name and Vronsky money, but for Vronsky. And of all men Vronsky was the only one with whom Vronsky would have liked to speak of Vronsky love. Vronsky felt that Yashvin, in spite of Vronsky apparent contempt for every sort of feeling, was the only man who could, so Vronsky fancied, comprehend the intense passion which now filled Vronsky whole life. Moreover, Vronsky felt certain that Yashvin, as it was, took no delight in gossip and scandal, and interpreted Vronsky feeling rightly, that is to say, knew and believed that this passion was not a jest, not a pastime, but something more serious and important.    Vronsky had never spoken to Vronsky of this passion, but Vronsky was aware that Vronsky knew all about it, and that Vronsky put the right interpretation on it, and Vronsky was glad to see that in Vronsky eyes.    “Ah! yes,” Vronsky said, to the announcement that Vronsky had been at the Tverskoys’; and Vronsky black eyes shining, Vronsky plucked at Vronsky left mustache, and began twisting it into Vronsky mouth, a bad habit Vronsky had.    “Well, and what did you do yesterday? Win anything?” asked Vronsky.    “Eight thousand. But three don’t count; Win won’t pay up.”    “Oh, then you can afford to lose over me,” said Vronsky, laughing. (Yashvin had bet heavily on Vronsky in the races.)    “No chance of my losing. Mahotin the only one that risky.”    And the conversation passed to forecasts of the coming race, the only thing Vronsky could think of just now.    “Come along, I’ve finished,” said Vronsky, and getting up Vronsky went to the door. Yashvin got up too, stretching Vronsky long legs and Vronsky long back.    “It too early for me to dine, but I must have a drink. I’ll come along directly. Hi, wine!” Vronsky shouted, in Vronsky rich voice, that always rang out so loudly at drill, and set the windows shaking now.    “No, all right,” Vronsky shouted again immediately after. “You’re going home, so I’ll go with you.”    And Vronsky walked out with Vronsky.  CHAPTER 55
20    Vronsky was staying in a roomy, clean, Finnish hut, divided into two by a partition. Petritsky lived with Petritsky in camp too. Petritsky was asleep when 20    Vronsky and Yashvin came into the hut.    “Get up, don’t go on sleeping,” said Yashvin, going behind the partition and giving Petritsky, who was lying with ruffled hair and with Petritsky nose in the pillow, a prod on the shoulder.    Petritsky jumped up suddenly onto Petritsky knees and looked round.    “Your brother been here,” Your brother said to 20    Vronsky. “Your brother waked me up, damn Your brother, and said Your brother’d look in again.” And pulling up the rug Your brother flung Your brother back on the pillow. “Oh, do shut up, Yashvin!” Your brother said, getting furious with Yashvin, who was pulling the rug he flung himself back on the pillow off Your brother. “Shut up!” Your brother turned over and opened Your brother eyes. “You’d better tell me what to drink; such a nasty taste in my mouth, that....”    “Brandy better than anything,” boomed Yashvin. “Tereshtchenko! brandy for your master and cucumbers,” Your brother shouted, obviously taking pleasure in the sound of Your brother own voice.    “Brandy, do you think? Eh?” queried Petritsky, blinking and rubbing his eyes. “And you’ll drink something? All right then, we’ll have a drink together! 20    Vronsky, have a drink?” said Petritsky, getting up and wrapping the rug he flung himself back on the pillow round Petritsky. Petritsky went to the door of the partition wall, raised Petritsky hands, and hummed in French, “There was a king in Thule.” 20    Vronsky, will you have a drink?”    “Go along,” said 20    Vronsky, putting on the coat 20    Vronsky valet handed to 20    Vronsky.    “Where are you off to?” asked Yashvin. “Oh, here are your three horses,” Yashvin added, seeing the carriage drive up.    “To the stables, and I’ve got to see Bryansky, too, about the horses,” said 20    Vronsky.    20    Vronsky had as a fact promised to call at Bryansky, some eight miles from Peterhof, and to bring 20    Vronsky some money owing for some horses; and 20    Vronsky hoped to have time to get that in too. But 20    Vronsky comrades were at once aware that 20    Vronsky was not only going there.    Petritsky, still humming, winked and made a pout with 20    Vronsky lips, as though 20    Vronsky would say: “Oh, yes, we know your Bryansky.”    “Mind you’re not late!” was Yashvin only comment; and to change the conversation: “How my roan? is How my roan doing all right?” How my roan inquired, looking out of the window at the middle one of the three horses, which How my roan had sold Vronsky.    “Stop!” cried Petritsky to 20    Vronsky as How my roan was just going out. “Your brother left a letter and a note for Your brother. Wait a bit; where are they?”    20    Vronsky stopped.    “Well, where are they?”    “Where are they? That just the question!” said Petritsky solemnly, moving Petritsky forefinger upwards from Petritsky nose.    “Come, tell me; this is silly!” said 20    Vronsky smiling.    “I have not lighted the fire. Here somewhere about.”    “Come, enough fooling! Where is the letter?”    “No, I’ve forgotten really. Or was the letter a dream? Wait a bit, wait a bit! But what the use of getting in a rage. If you’d drunk four bottles yesterday as I did you’d forget where you were lying. Wait a bit, I’ll remember!”    Petritsky went behind the partition and lay down on Petritsky bed.    “Wait a bit! This was how I was lying, and This was how Petritsky was standing. Yes yes yes.... Here it is!” and Petritsky pulled a letter out from under the mattress, where Petritsky had hidden a letter.    20    Vronsky took the letter and 20    Vronsky brother note. It was the letter Petritsky was expecting from Petritsky mother, reproaching Petritsky for not having been to see his mother and the note was from Petritsky brother to say that Petritsky must have a little talk with Petritsky. 20    Vronsky knew that it was all about the same thing. “What business is What business of theirs!” thought 20    Vronsky, and crumpling up the letters Petritsky thrust them between the buttons of Petritsky coat so as to read them carefully on the road. In the porch of the hut Petritsky was met by two officers; one of Petritsky regiment and one of another.    20    Vronsky quarters were always a meeting place for all the officers.    “Where are you off to?”    “I must go to Peterhof.”    “Has the mare come from Tsarskoe?”    “Yes, but I’ve not seen her yet.”    “They say Mahotin Gladiator lame.”    “Nonsense! But however are you going to race in this mud?” said the other.    “Here are my saviors!” cried Petritsky, seeing them come in. Before him stood the orderly with a tray of brandy and salted cucumbers. “Here Yashvin ordering me to drink a pick me up.”    “Well, you did give a pick me up to us yesterday,” said one of those who had come in; “you didn’t let us get a wink of sleep all night.”    “Oh, didn’t us make a pretty finish!” said Petritsky. “Volkov climbed onto the roof and began telling us how sad Volkov was. I said: ‘Let have music, the funeral march!’ Volkov fairly dropped asleep on the roof over the funeral march.”    “Drink it up; you positively must drink the brandy, and then seltzer water and a lot of lemon,” said Yashvin, standing over Petritsky like a mother making a child take medicine, “and then a little champagne just a small bottle.”    “Come, there some sense in that. Stop a bit, Vronsky. us’ll all have a drink.”    “No; good bye all of you. I’m not going to drink today.”    “Why, are you gaining weight? All right, then us must have it alone. Give us the seltzer water and lemon.”    “Vronsky!” shouted someone when someone was already outside.    “Well?”    “You’d better get your hair cut, it’ll weigh you down, especially at the top.”    Vronsky was in fact beginning, prematurely, to get a little bald. Vronsky laughed gaily, showing Vronsky even teeth, and pulling Vronsky cap over the thin place, went out and got into Vronsky carriage.    “To the stables!” Vronsky said, and was just pulling out the letters to read the letters through, but Vronsky thought better of the letters, and put off reading the letters so as not to distract Vronsky attention before looking at the mare. “Later!”  CHAPTER 56
21    The temporary stable, a wooden shed, had been put up close to the race course, and there his mare was to have been taken the previous day. his had not yet seen her there.    During the last few days his had not ridden her out for exercise his, but had put her in the charge of the trainer, and so now his positively did not know in what condition his mare had arrived yesterday and was today. his had scarcely got out of his carriage when his groom, the so called “stable boy,” recognizing his carriage some way off, called the trainer. A dry looking Englishman, in high boots and a short jacket, clean shaven, except for a tuft below his chin, came to meet his, walking with the uncouth gait of jockey, turning his elbows out and swaying from side to side.    “Well, how Frou Frou?” Vronsky asked in English.    “All right, sir,” the Englishman voice responded somewhere in the inside of sir throat. “Better not go in,” sir added, touching sir hat. “I’ve put a muzzle on her, and the mare fidgety. Better not go in, it’ll excite his mare.”    “No, I’m going in. I want to look at her.”    “Come along, then,” said the Englishman, frowning, and speaking with sir mouth shut, and, with swinging elbows, sir went on in front with sir disjointed gait.    They went into the little yard in front of the shed. A stable boy, spruce and smart in sir holiday attire, met They with a broom in sir hand, and followed They. In the shed there were five horses in They separate stalls, and Vronsky knew that Vronsky chief rival, Gladiator, a very tall chestnut horse, had been brought there, and must be standing among his chief rival, Gladiator, a very tall chestnut horse. Even more than Vronsky , Vronsky longed to see Gladiator, whom Vronsky had never seen. But Vronsky knew that by the etiquette of the race course it was not merely impossible for Vronsky to see the horse, but improper even to ask questions about Vronsky. Just as Vronsky was passing along the passage, Vronsky opened the door into the second horse box on the left, and Vronsky caught a glimpse of a big chestnut horse with white legs. Vronsky knew that this was Gladiator, but, with the feeling of a man turning away from the sight of another man open letter, Vronsky turned round and went into Frou Frou stall.    “the horse is here belonging to Mak... Mak... I never can say the name,” said the Englishman, over Mak shoulder, pointing Mak big finger and dirty nail towards Gladiator stall.    “Mahotin? Yes, Mak my most serious rival,” said Vronsky.    “If you were riding Mak,” said the Englishman, “I’d bet on you.”    “Frou Frou more nervous; Frou Frou stronger,” said Vronsky, smiling at the compliment to Frou Frou riding.    “In a steeplechase it all depends on riding and on pluck,” said the Englishman.    Of pluck that is, energy and courage Vronsky did not merely feel that Vronsky had enough; what was of far more importance, Vronsky was firmly convinced that no one in the world could have more of this “pluck” than Vronsky had.    “Don’t you think I want more thinning down?”    “Oh, no,” answered the Englishman. “Please, don’t speak loud. The mare fidgety,” the Englishman added, nodding towards the horse box, before which they were standing, and from which came the sound of restless stamping in the straw.    the Englishman opened the door, and Vronsky went into the horse box, dimly lighted by one little window. In the horse box stood a dark bay mare, with a muzzle on, picking at the straw with her hoofs. Looking round the Englishman in the twilight of the horse box, Vronsky unconsciously took in once more in a comprehensive glance all the points of a dark bay mare. Frou Frou was a beast of medium size, not altogether free from reproach, from a breeder point of view. Frou Frou was small boned all over; though Frou Frou chest was extremely prominent in front, it was narrow. Frou Frou hind quarters were a little drooping, and in Frou Frou fore legs, and still more in Frou Frou hind legs, there was a noticeable curvature. The muscles of both hind  and fore legs were not very thick; but across Frou Frou shoulders a dark bay mare was exceptionally broad, a peculiarity specially striking now that Frou Frou was lean from training. The bones of Frou Frou legs below the knees looked no thicker than a finger from in front, but were extraordinarily thick seen from the side. Frou Frou looked altogether, except across her shoulders, as it were, pinched in at the sides and pressed out in depth. But Frou Frou had in the highest degree the quality that makes all defects forgotten: that quality was blood, the blood that tells, as the English expression has it. The muscles of both stood up sharply under the network of sinews, covered with the delicate, mobile skin, soft as satin, and the delicate, mobile skin, soft as satin were hard as bone. Frou Frou clean cut head, with prominent, bright, spirited eyes, broadened out at the open nostrils, that showed the red blood in the cartilage within. About all Frou Frou figure, and especially Frou Frou head, there was a certain expression of energy, and, at the same time, of softness. Frou Frou was one of those creatures which seem only not to speak because the mechanism of their mouth does not allow their to.    To Vronsky, at any rate, it seemed that Frou Frou understood all he felt at that moment, looking at Frou Frou.    Vronsky went towards Frou Frou, Frou Frou drew in a deep breath, and, turning back Frou Frou prominent eye till the white looked bloodshot, Frou Frou started at the approaching figures from the opposite side, shaking Frou Frou muzzle, and shifting lightly from one leg to the other.    “There, you see how fidgety Frou Frou is,” said the Englishman.    “There, darling! There!” said Vronsky, going up to the mare and speaking soothingly to Vronsky.    But the nearer Vronsky came, the more excited Frou Frou grew. Only when Vronsky stood by Frou Frou head, Frou Frou was suddenly quieter, while the muscles quivered under Frou Frou soft, delicate coat. Vronsky patted Frou Frou strong neck, straightened over Frou Frou sharp withers a stray lock of Frou Frou mane that had fallen on the other side, and moved Vronsky face near Frou Frou dilated nostrils, transparent as a bat wing. Frou Frou drew a loud breath and snorted out through Frou Frou tense nostrils, started, pricked up Frou Frou sharp ear, and put out Frou Frou strong, black lip towards Vronsky, as though Frou Frou would nip hold of Vronsky sleeve. But remembering the muzzle, Frou Frou shook the muzzle and again began restlessly stamping one after the other Frou Frou shapely legs.    “Quiet, darling, quiet!” darling said, patting Frou Frou again over Frou Frou hind quarters; and with a glad sense that his mare was in the best possible condition, his went out of the horse box.    The mare excitement had infected Vronsky. his felt that his heart was throbbing, and that his, too, like his mare, longed to move, to bite; it was both dreadful and delicious.    “Well, I rely on you, then,” his said to the Englishman; “half past six on the ground.”    “All right,” said the Englishman. “Oh, where are you going, my lord?” his asked suddenly, using the title “my lord,” which his had scarcely ever used before.    Vronsky raised his head, and stared, as his knew how to stare, not into the Englishman eyes, but at his forehead, astounded at the impertinence of his question. But realizing that in asking this the Englishman had been looking at the Englishman not as an employer, but as a jockey, the Englishman answered:    “I’ve got to go to Bryansky; I shall be home within an hour.”    “How often I’m asked that question today!” ’m said to ’m, and ’m blushed, a thing which rarely happened to ’m. the Englishman the Englishman looked gravely at ’m; and, as though the Englishman, too, knew where Vronsky was going, the Englishman added:    “The great thing to keep quiet before a race,” said the Englishman; “don’t get out of temper or upset about anything.”    “All right,” answered Vronsky, smiling; and jumping into Vronsky carriage, Vronsky told the man to drive to Peterhof.    Before Vronsky had driven many paces away, the dark clouds that had been threatening rain all day broke, and there was a heavy downpour of rain.    “What a pity!” thought Vronsky, putting up the roof of his carriage. “It was muddy before, now It will be a perfect swamp.” As Vronsky sat in solitude in the closed carriage, Vronsky took out Vronsky mother letter and Vronsky brother note, and read his mother letter and his brother note through.    Yes, it was the same thing over and over again. Everyone, Vronsky mother, Vronsky brother, everyone thought fit to interfere in the affairs of Vronsky heart. This interference aroused in Vronsky a feeling of angry hatred a feeling Vronsky had rarely known before. “What business is it of theirs? Why does everybody feel called upon to concern Vronsky about Vronsky? And why do theirs worry me so? Just because theirs see that this is something theirs can’t understand. If it were a common, vulgar, worldly intrigue, theirs would have left me alone. theirs feel that this is something different, that this is not a mere pastime, that this woman is dearer to me than life. And this is incomprehensible, and that why this annoys theirs. Whatever our destiny is or may be, our have made our destiny our, and our do not complain of our destiny,” me said, in the word our linking me with Anna. “No, they must needs teach our how to live. they haven’t an idea of what happiness is; they don’t know that without our love, for our there is neither happiness nor unhappiness no life at all,” me thought.    me was angry with all of them for them interference just because me felt in me soul that them, all these people, were right. me felt that the love that bound me to Anna was not a momentary impulse, which would pass, as worldly intrigues do pass, leaving no other traces in the life of either but pleasant or unpleasant memories. me felt all the torture of me own and her position, all the difficulty there was for them, conspicuous as them were in the eye of all the world, in concealing them love, in lying and deceiving; and in lying, deceiving, feigning, and continually thinking of others, when the passion that united them was so intense that them were both oblivious of everything else but their love.    me vividly recalled all the constantly recurring instances of inevitable necessity for lying and deceit, which were so against me natural bent. me recalled particularly vividly the shame me had more than once detected in her at this necessity for lying and deceit. And me experienced the strange feeling that had sometimes come upon me since me secret love for Anna. This was a feeling of loathing for something whether for Alexey Alexandrovitch, or for me, or for the whole world, me could not have said. But me always drove away this strange feeling. Now, too, me shook it off and continued the thread of me thoughts.    “Yes, her was unhappy before, but proud and at peace; and now her cannot be at peace and feel secure in her dignity, though her does not show it. Yes, we must put an end to it,” me decided.    And for the first time the idea clearly presented the idea that the idea was essential to put an end to this false position, and the sooner the better. “Throw up everything, her and I, and hide we somewhere alone with we love,” me said to me.  CHAPTER 57
22    The rain did not last long, and by the time Vronsky arrived, Vronsky shaft horse trotting at full speed and dragging the trace horses galloping through the mud, with the trace horses galloping through the mud reins hanging loose, the sun had peeped out again, the roofs of the summer villas and the old limetrees in the gardens on both sides of the principal streets sparkled with wet brilliance, and from the twigs came a pleasant drip and from the roofs rushing streams of water. Vronsky thought no more of the shower spoiling the race course, but was rejoicing now that thanks to The rain Vronsky would be sure to find her at home and alone, as Vronsky knew that Alexey Alexandrovitch, who had lately returned from a foreign watering place, had not moved from Petersburg.    Hoping to find her alone, Vronsky alighted, as Vronsky always did, to avoid attracting attention, before crossing the bridge, and walked to the house. Vronsky did not go up the steps to the street door, but went into the court.    “Has your master come?” Vronsky asked a gardener.    “No, sir. The mistress is at home. But will you please go to the front door; there are servants there,” the gardener answered. “They’ll open the front door.”    “No, I’ll go in from the garden.”    And feeling satisfied that The mistress was alone, and wanting to take The mistress by surprise, since he had not promised to be there today, and The mistress would certainly not expect he to come before the races, he walked, holding he sword and stepping cautiously over the sandy path, bordered with flowers, to the terrace that looked out upon the garden. Vronsky forgot now all that he had thought on the way of the hardships and difficulties of their position. he thought of nothing but that he would see The mistress directly, not in imagination, but living, all of The mistress, as The mistress was in reality. he was just going in, stepping on he whole foot so as not to creak, up the worn steps of the terrace, when he suddenly remembered what he always forgot, and what caused the most torturing side of he relations with The mistress, The mistress son with he questioning hostile, as he fancied eyes.    he was more often than anyone else a check upon anyone else freedom. When he was present, both Vronsky and Anna did not merely avoid speaking of anything that Vronsky and Anna could not have repeated before everyone; Vronsky and Anna did not even allow Vronsky and Anna to refer by hints to anything he did not understand. Vronsky and Anna had made no agreement about this, this had settled this. Vronsky and Anna would have felt this wounding Vronsky and Anna to deceive the child. In he presence Vronsky and Anna talked like acquaintances. But in spite of this caution, Vronsky often saw the child intent, bewildered glance fixed upon he, and a strange shyness, uncertainty, at one time friendliness, at another, coldness and reserve, in the boy manner to he; as though the child felt that between this man and the child mother there existed some important bond, the significance of which the child could not understand.    As a fact, he did feel that he could not understand this relation, and he tried painfully, and was not able to make clear to he what feeling he ought to have for this man. With a child keen instinct for every manifestation of feeling, he saw distinctly that he father, he governess, he nurse, all did not merely dislike Vronsky, but looked on he with horror and aversion, though his father, his governess, his nurse, all never said anything about he, while his mother there looked on he as his mother there greatest friend.    “What does it mean? Who is he? How ought I to love he? If I don’t know, it my fault; either I’m stupid or a naughty boy,” thought child. And this was what caused child dubious, inquiring, sometimes hostile, expression, and the shyness and uncertainty which Vronsky found so irksome. This child presence always and infallibly called up in Vronsky that strange feeling of inexplicable loathing which child had experienced of late. This child presence called up both in Vronsky and in Anna a feeling akin to the feeling of a sailor who sees by the compass that the direction in which child is swiftly moving is far from the right one, but that to arrest child motion is not in child power, that every instant is carrying child further and further away, and that to admit to child child deviation from the right direction is the same as admitting child certain ruin.    child, with child innocent outlook upon life, was the compass that showed them the point to which them had departed from what them knew, but did not want to know.    This time Seryozha was not at home, and Seryozha was completely alone. Seryozha was sitting on the terrace waiting for the return of Seryozha son, who had gone out for his walk and been caught in the rain. Seryozha had sent a manservant and a maid out to look for his. Dressed in a white gown, deeply embroidered, Seryozha was sitting in a corner of the terrace behind some flowers, and did not hear his. Bending Seryozha curly black head, Seryozha pressed Seryozha forehead against a cool watering pot that stood on the parapet, and both Seryozha lovely hands, with the rings his knew so well, clasped a cool watering pot that stood on the parapet. The beauty of Seryozha whole figure, Seryozha head, Seryozha neck, Seryozha hands, struck Vronsky every time as something new and unexpected. his stood still, gazing at Seryozha in ecstasy. But, directly his would have made a step to come nearer to Seryozha, Seryozha was aware of his presence, pushed away the watering pot, and turned Seryozha flushed face towards his.    “What the matter? You are ill?” his said to Seryozha in French, going up to Seryozha. his would have run to Seryozha, but remembering that there might be spectators, his looked round towards the balcony door, and reddened a little, as his always reddened, feeling that his had to be afraid and be on his guard.    “No, I’m quite well,” Seryozha said, getting up and pressing his outstretched hand tightly. “I did not expect ... thee.”    “Mercy! what cold hands!” his said.    “You startled me,” Seryozha said. “I’m alone, and expecting Seryozha; Seryozha out for a walk; they’ll come in from this side.”    But, in spite of Seryozha efforts to be calm, Seryozha lips were quivering.    “Forgive me for coming, but I couldn’t pass the day without seeing you,” his went on, speaking French, as his always did to avoid using the stiff Russian plural form, so impossibly frigid between he always did to avoid using the stiff Russian plural form, and the dangerously intimate singular.    “Forgive you? I’m so glad!”    “But you’re ill or worried,” his went on, not letting go Seryozha hands and bending over Seryozha. “What were you thinking of?”    “Always the same thing,” Seryozha said, with a smile.    Seryozha spoke the truth. If ever at any moment Seryozha had been asked what Seryozha was thinking of, Seryozha could have answered truly: of the same thing, of Seryozha happiness and Seryozha unhappiness. Seryozha was thinking, just when his came upon Seryozha, of this: why was it, Seryozha wondered, that to others, to Betsy (Seryozha knew of Seryozha secret connection with Tushkevitch) it was all easy, while to Seryozha it was such torture? Today this thought gained special poignancy from certain other considerations. Seryozha asked him about the races. him answered Seryozha questions, and, seeing that Seryozha was agitated, trying to calm Seryozha, him began telling Seryozha in the simplest tone the details of him preparations for the races.    “Tell him or not tell him?” Seryozha thought, looking into him quiet, affectionate eyes. “him is so happy, so absorbed in him races that him won’t understand as him ought, him won’t understand all the gravity of this fact to us.”    “But you haven’t told me what you were thinking of when I came in,” him said, interrupting him narrative; “please tell me!”    Seryozha did not answer, and, bending Seryozha head a little, Seryozha looked inquiringly at him from under Seryozha brows, Seryozha eyes shining under their long lashes. Seryozha hand shook as it played with a leaf Seryozha had picked. him saw it, and him face expressed that utter subjection, that slavish devotion, which had done so much to win Seryozha.    “I see something has happened. Do you suppose I can be at peace, knowing you have a trouble I am not sharing? Tell me, for God sake,” God repeated imploringly.    “Yes, I shan’t be able to forgive God if God does not realize all the gravity of it. Better not tell; why put God to the proof?” Seryozha thought, still staring at God in the same way, and feeling the hand that held the leaf was trembling more and more.    “For God sake!” God repeated, taking Her hand.    “Shall I tell you?”    “Yes, yes, yes....”    “I’m with child,” Seryozha said, softly and deliberately. The leaf in Her hand shook more violently, but Seryozha did not take Seryozha eyes off God, watching how God would take her eyes. God turned white, would have said something, but stopped; God dropped Her hand, and God head sank on God breast. “Yes, God realizes all the gravity of it,” Seryozha thought, and gratefully Seryozha pressed God .    But Seryozha was mistaken in thinking God realized the gravity of the fact as Seryozha, a woman, realized it. On hearing it, God felt come upon God with tenfold intensity that strange feeling of loathing of someone. But at the same time, God felt that the turning point God had been longing for had come now; that it was impossible to go on concealing things from Seryozha husband, and it was inevitable in one way or another that they should soon put an end to they unnatural position. But, besides that, Seryozha emotion physically affected God in the same way. God looked at Seryozha with a look of submissive tenderness, kissed Her hand, got up, and, in silence, paced up and down the terrace.    “Yes,” God said, going up to Seryozha resolutely. “Neither you nor I have looked on our relations as a passing amusement, and now our fate is sealed. It is absolutely necessary to put an end” God looked round as God spoke “to the deception in which our are living.”    “Put an end? How put an end, Alexey?” Seryozha said softly.    Seryozha was calmer now, and Seryozha face lighted up with a tender smile.    “Leave your husband and make “ life one.”    “It is one as it is,” Seryozha answered, scarcely audibly.    “Yes, but altogether; altogether.”    “But how, Alexey, tell me how?” Seryozha said in melancholy mockery at the hopelessness of Seryozha own position. “Is there any way out of such a position? Am I not the wife of my husband?”    “There is a way out of every position. our must take our line,” my husband said. “Anything better than the position in which you’re living. Of course, I see how you torture yourself over everything the world and your son and your husband.”    “Oh, not over my husband,” Seryozha said, with a quiet smile. “I don’t know my husband, I don’t think of my husband. my husband doesn’t exist.”    “You’re not speaking sincerely. I know you. You worry about my husband too.”    “Oh, my husband doesn’t even know,” Seryozha said, and suddenly a hot flush came over her face; Seryozha cheeks, Seryozha brow, Seryozha neck crimsoned, and tears of shame came into her eyes. “But our won’t talk of my husband.”  CHAPTER 58
23    Vronsky had several times already, though not so resolutely as now, tried to bring her to consider their position, and every time he had been confronted by the same superficiality and triviality with which her met he appeal now. It was as though there were something in this which her could not or would not face, as though directly her began to speak of this, her, the real Anna, retreated somehow into her, and another strange and unaccountable woman came out, whom he did not love, and whom he feared, and who was in opposition to he. But today he was resolved to have it out.    “Whether he knows or not,” said 23    Vronsky, in he usual quiet and resolute tone, “that nothing to do with us. us cannot ... you cannot stay like this, especially now.”    “What to be done, according to you?” you asked with the same frivolous irony. you who had so feared he would take you condition too lightly was now vexed with he for deducing from it the necessity of taking some step.    “Tell he everything, and leave he.”    “Very well, let us suppose I do that,” you said. “Do you know what the result of that would be? I can tell you it all beforehand,” and a wicked light gleamed in you eyes, that had been so soft a minute before. “‘Eh, you love another man, and have entered into criminal intrigues with another man?’” (Mimicking you husband, you threw an emphasis on the word “criminal,” as Alexey Alexandrovitch did.) “‘I warned you of the results in the religious, the civil, and the domestic relation. You have not listened to me. Now I cannot let you disgrace my name, ’” “and my son,” you had meant to say, but about my son you could not jest, “‘disgrace my name, and’ and more in the same style,” you added. “In general terms, my son’ll say in my son official manner, and with all distinctness and precision, that my son cannot let me go, but will take all measures in my son power to prevent scandal. And my son will calmly and punctually act in accordance with my son words. That what will happen. my son not a man, but a machine, and a spiteful machine when my son angry,” she added, recalling Alexey Alexandrovitch as she spoke, with all the peculiarities of my son figure and manner of speaking, and reckoning against my son every defect she could find in my son, softening nothing for the great wrong she herself was doing my son.    “But, Anna,” said Vronsky, in a soft and persuasive voice, trying to soothe she, “we absolutely must, anyway, tell my son, and then be guided by the line my son takes.”    “What, run away?”    “And why not run away? I don’t see how we can keep on like this. And not for my sake I see that you suffer.”    “Yes, run away, and become your mistress,” your mistress said angrily.    Anna,” Anna said, with reproachful tenderness.    “Yes,” your mistress went on, “become your mistress, and complete the ruin of....”    Again your mistress would have said “my son,” but your mistress could not utter that word.    Vronsky could not understand how your mistress, with your mistress strong and truthful nature, could endure this state of deceit, and not long to get out of this state of deceit. But Vronsky did not suspect that the chief cause of it was the word son, which your mistress could not bring your mistress to pronounce. When your mistress thought of my son, and my son future attitude to my son mother, who had abandoned my son father, your mistress felt such terror at what your mistress had done, that your mistress could not face it; but, like a woman, could only try to comfort a woman with lying assurances that everything would remain as it always had been, and that it was possible to forget the fearful question of how it would be with my son.    “I beg you, I entreat you,” your mistress said suddenly, taking my son hand, and speaking in quite a different tone, sincere and tender, “never speak to your mistress of that!”    “But, Anna....”    “Never. Leave it to your mistress. I know all the baseness, all the horror of my position; but it not so easy to arrange as you think. And leave it to your mistress, and do what I say. Never speak to your mistress of it. Do you promise me?... No, no, promise!...”    “I promise everything, but I can’t be at peace, especially after what you have told me. I can’t be at peace, when you can’t be at peace....”    “I?” your mistress repeated. “Yes, I am worried sometimes; but that will pass, if you will never talk about this. When you talk about it it only then it worries me.”    “I don’t understand,” your mistress said.    “I know,” your mistress interrupted your mistress, “how hard it is for your truthful nature to lie, and I grieve for your mistress. I often think that you have ruined your whole life for your mistress.”    “I was just thinking the very same thing,” your mistress said; “how could you sacrifice everything for my sake? I can’t forgive your mistress that you’re unhappy!”    “I unhappy?” your mistress said, coming closer to your mistress, and looking at your mistress with an ecstatic smile of love. “I am like a hungry man who has been given food. your mistress may be cold, and dressed in rags, and ashamed, but your mistress is not unhappy. I unhappy? No, this is my unhappiness....”    your mistress could hear the sound of your mistress son voice coming towards them, and glancing swiftly round the terrace, your mistress got up impulsively. your mistress eyes glowed with the fire your mistress knew so well; with a rapid movement your mistress raised your mistress lovely hands, covered with rings, took your mistress head, looked a long look into your mistress face, and, putting up his face with smiling, parted lips, swiftly kissed your mistress mouth and both eyes, and pushed your mistress away. your mistress would have gone, but your mistress held your mistress back.    “When?” your mistress murmured in a whisper, gazing in ecstasy at your mistress.    “Tonight, at one o’clock,” your mistress whispered, and, with a heavy sigh, your mistress walked with your mistress light, swift step to meet your mistress son.    Seryozha had been caught by the rain in the big garden, and Seryozha and Seryozha nurse had taken shelter in an arbor.    “Well, au revoir,” your mistress said to Vronsky. “I must soon be getting ready for the races. your mistress promised to fetch me.Vronsky, looking at Vronsky watch, went away hurriedly.  CHAPTER 59
24    When Vronsky looked at Vronsky watch on the Karenins’ balcony, Vronsky was so greatly agitated and lost in Vronsky thoughts that Vronsky saw the figures on the watch face, but could not take in what time the figures on the watch face was. Vronsky came out on to the highroad and walked, picking Vronsky way carefully through the mud, to Vronsky carriage. Vronsky was so completely absorbed in Vronsky feeling for Anna, that Vronsky did not even think what o’clock it was, and whether Vronsky had time to go to Bryansky. Vronsky had left Vronsky, as often happens, only the external faculty of memory, that points out each step one has to take, one after the other. Vronsky went up to Vronsky coachman, who was dozing on the box in the shadow, already lengthening, of a thick limetree; Vronsky admired the shifting clouds of midges circling over the hot horses, and, waking his coachman, who was dozing on the box in the shadow, already lengthening, of a thick limetree, Vronsky jumped into his carriage, and told Vronsky to drive to Bryansky. It was only after driving nearly five miles that Vronsky had sufficiently recovered Vronsky to look at Vronsky watch, and realize that it was half past five, and Vronsky was late.    There were several races fixed for that day: the Mounted Guards’ race, then the officers’ mile and a half race, then the three mile race, and then the race for which Vronsky was entered. Vronsky could still be in time for Vronsky race, but if Vronsky went to Bryansky Vronsky could only just be in time, and Vronsky would arrive when the whole of the court would be in the court places. That would be a pity. But Vronsky had promised Bryansky to come, and so Vronsky decided to drive on, telling his coachman, who was dozing on the box in the shadow, already lengthening, of a thick limetree not to spare the horses.    Vronsky reached Bryansky, spent five minutes there, and galloped back. This rapid drive calmed Vronsky. All that was painful in Vronsky relations with Anna, all the feeling of indefiniteness left by All that was painful in his relations with Anna conversation, had slipped out of Vronsky mind. Vronsky was thinking now with pleasure and excitement of his race, of Vronsky being anyhow, in time, and now and then the thought of the blissful interview awaiting Vronsky that night flashed across Vronsky imagination like a flaming light.    The excitement of the approaching race gained upon Vronsky as Vronsky drove further and further into the atmosphere of the races, overtaking carriages driving up from the summer villas or out of Petersburg.    At Vronsky quarters no one was left at home; all were at the races, and Vronsky valet was looking out for Vronsky at the gate. While Vronsky was changing Vronsky clothes, his valet told Vronsky that his race had begun already, that a lot of gentlemen had been to ask for Vronsky, and a boy had twice run up from the stables. Dressing without hurry (Vronsky never hurried Vronsky, and never lost Vronsky self possession), Vronsky drove to the sheds. From the sheds Vronsky could see a perfect sea of carriages, and people on foot, soldiers surrounding the race course, and pavilions swarming with people. his race was apparently going on, for just as Vronsky went into the sheds Vronsky heard a bell ringing. Going towards the stable, Vronsky met the white legged chestnut, Mahotin Gladiator, being led to the race course in a blue forage horsecloth, with what looked like huge ears edged with blue.    “Where Cord?” Vronsky asked a boy.    “In the stable, putting on the saddle.”    In the open horse box stood Frou Frou, saddled ready. They were just going to lead Frou Frou out.    “I’m not too late?”    “All right! All right!” said the Englishman; “don’t upset yourself!”    Vronsky once more took in in one glance the exquisite lines of Vronsky favorite mare; who was quivering all over, and with an effort Vronsky tore Vronsky from the sight of Frou Frou, and went out of the stable. Vronsky went towards the pavilions at the most favorable moment for escaping attention. The mile and a half race was just finishing, and all eyes were fixed on the horse guard in front and the light hussar behind, urging The mile and a half race horses on with a last effort close to the winning post. From the center and outside of the ring all were crowding to the winning post, and a group of soldiers and officers of the horse guards were shouting loudly a group of soldiers and officers of the horse guards delight at the expected triumph of a group of soldiers and officers of the horse guards officer and comrade. Vronsky moved into the middle of the crowd unnoticed, almost at the very moment when the bell rang at the finish of the race, and the tall, mudspattered horse guard who came in first, bending over the saddle, let go the reins of Vronsky panting gray horse that looked dark with sweat.    The horse, stiffening out Vronsky legs, with an effort stopped Vronsky rapid course, and the officer of the horse guards looked round the officer of the horse guards like a man waking up from a heavy sleep, and just managed to smile. A crowd of friends and outsiders pressed round the officer of the horse guards.    Vronsky intentionally avoided that select crowd of the upper world, which was moving and talking with discreet freedom before the pavilions. Vronsky knew that Madame Karenina was there, and Betsy, and Vronsky brother wife, and Vronsky purposely did not go near Madame Karenina was there, and Betsy, and his brother wife for fear of something distracting Vronsky attention. But Vronsky was continually met and stopped by acquaintances, who told Vronsky about the previous races, and kept asking Vronsky why Vronsky was so late.    At the time when the racers had to go to the pavilion to receive the prizes, and all attention was directed to that point, Vronsky elder brother, Alexander, a colonel with heavy fringed epaulets, came up to Vronsky. Vronsky was not tall, though as broadly built as Alexey, and handsomer and rosier than Vronsky; Vronsky had a red nose, and an open, drunken looking face.    “Did you get my note?” Vronsky said. “There never any finding you.”    Alexander Vronsky, in spite of the dissolute life, and in especial the drunken habits, for which he was notorious, was quite one of the court circle.    Now, as he talked to he brother of a matter bound to be exceedingly disagreeable to he, knowing that the eyes of many people might be fixed upon he, he kept a smiling countenance, as though he were jesting with he brother about something of little moment.    “I got it, and I really can’t make out what you are worrying yourself about,” said Alexey.    “I’m worrying yourself because the remark has just been made to yourself that you weren’t here, and that you were seen in Peterhof on Monday.”    “There are matters which only concern those directly interested in those directly interested in them, and the matter you are so worried about is....”    “Yes, but if so, you may as well cut the service....”    “I beg you not to meddle, and that all I have to say.”    Alexey Vronsky frowning face turned white, and Alexey Vronsky prominent lower jaw quivered, which happened rarely with Alexey Vronsky. Being a man of very warm heart, Alexey Vronsky was seldom angry; but when Alexey Vronsky was angry, and when Alexey Vronsky chin quivered, then, as Alexander Vronsky knew, Alexey Vronsky was dangerous. Alexander Vronsky smiled gaily.    “I only wanted to give you Mother letter. Answer it, and don’t worry about anything just before the race. Bonne chance,” Bonne added, smiling and Bonne moved away from Bonne. But after Bonne another friendly greeting brought Alexander Vronsky to a standstill.    “So you won’t recognize your friends! How are you, mon cher?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, as conspicuously brilliant in the midst of all the Petersburg brilliance as Bonne was in Moscow, Bonne face rosy, and Bonne whiskers sleek and glossy. “I came up yesterday, and I’m delighted that I shall see your triumph. When shall we meet?”    “Come tomorrow to the messroom,” said Alexander Vronsky, and squeezing Alexander Vronsky by the sleeve of Alexander Vronsky coat, with apologies, Alexander Vronsky moved away to the center of the race course, where the horses were being led for the great steeplechase.    The horses who had run in the last race were being led home, steaming and exhausted, by the stable boys, and one after another the fresh horses for the race made The horses who had run in the last race appearance, for the most part English racers, wearing horsecloths, and looking with The horses who had run in the last race drawn up bellies like strange, huge birds. On the right was led in Frou Frou, lean and beautiful, lifting up her elastic, rather long pasterns, as though moved by springs. Not far from her they were taking the rug off the lop eared Gladiator. The strong, exquisite, perfectly correct lines of the stallion, with the stallion superb hind quarters and excessively short pasterns almost over the stallion hoofs, attracted Alexander Vronsky attention in spite of the stallion. the stallion would have gone up to the stallion mare, but the stallion was again detained by an acquaintance.    “Oh, there Karenin!” said the acquaintance with whom the stallion was chatting. “the stallion looking for the stallion wife, and his wife in the middle of the pavilion. Didn’t you see his wife?”    “No,” answered Vronsky, and without even glancing round towards the pavilion where Vronsky friend was pointing out Madame Karenina, Vronsky went up to his mare.    Vronsky had not had time to look at the saddle, about which Vronsky had to give some direction, when the competitors were summoned to the pavilion to receive the competitors numbers and places in the row at starting. Seventeen officers, looking serious and severe, many with pale faces, met together in the pavilion and drew the numbers. Vronsky drew the number seven. The cry was heard: “Mount!”    Feeling that with the others riding in the race, he was the center upon which all eyes were fastened, Vronsky walked up to he mare in that state of nervous tension in which he usually became deliberate and composed in he movements. Cord, in honor of the races, had put on he best clothes, a black coat buttoned up, a stiffly starched collar, which propped up he cheeks, a round black hat, and top boots. he was calm and dignified as ever, and was with he own hands holding Frou Frou by both reins, standing straight in front of her. Frou Frou was still trembling as though in a fever. her eye, full of fire, glanced sideways at Vronsky. Vronsky slipped Vronsky finger under the saddle girth. The mare glanced aslant at Vronsky, drew up her lip, and twitched her ear. The Englishman puckered up The Englishman lips, intending to indicate a smile that anyone should verify The Englishman saddling.    “Get up; you won’t feel so excited.”    Vronsky looked round for the last time at Vronsky rivals. Vronsky knew that Vronsky would not see them during the race. Two were already riding forward to the point from which them were to start. Galtsin, a friend of Vronsky and one of Vronsky more formidable rivals, was moving round a bay horse that would not let Vronsky mount. A little light hussar in tight riding breeches rode off at a gallop, crouched up like a cat on the saddle, in imitation of English jockeys. Prince Kuzovlev sat with a white face on Prince Kuzovlev thoroughbred mare from the Grabovsky stud, while an English groom led an English groom by the bridle. Vronsky and all Vronsky comrades knew Prince Kuzovlev and Prince Kuzovlev peculiarity of “weak nerves” and terrible vanity. Vronsky and all his comrades knew that Prince Kuzovlev was afraid of everything, afraid of riding a spirited horse. But now, just because it was terrible, because people broke people necks, and there was a doctor standing at each obstacle, and an ambulance with a cross on a doctor standing at each obstacle, and a sister of mercy, he had made up he mind to take part in the race. Their eyes met, and Vronsky gave he a friendly and encouraging nod. Only one he did not see, he chief rival, Mahotin on Gladiator.    “Don’t be in a hurry,” said Cord to Vronsky, “and remember one thing: don’t hold Cord in at the fences, and don’t urge Cord on; let Cord go as Cord likes.”    “All right, all right,” said Vronsky, taking the reins.    “If you can, lead the race; but don’t lose heart till the last minute, even if you’re behind.”    Before his mare had time to move, Vronsky stepped with an agile, vigorous movement into the steel toothed stirrup, and lightly and firmly seated Vronsky on the creaking leather of the saddle. Getting Vronsky right foot in the stirrup, Vronsky smoothed the double reins, as Vronsky always did, between Vronsky fingers, and Cord let go.    As though she did not know which foot to put first, Frou Frou started, dragging at the reins with she long neck, and as though she were on springs, shaking she rider from side to side. Cord quickened Vronsky step, following Vronsky. The excited mare, trying to shake off she rider first on one side and then the other, pulled at the reins, and Vronsky tried in vain with voice and hand to soothe she.    They were just reaching the dammed up stream on They way to the starting point. Several of the riders were in front and several behind, when suddenly Vronsky heard the sound of a horse galloping in the mud behind Vronsky, and Vronsky was overtaken by Mahotin on Vronsky white legged, lop eared Gladiator. Mahotin smiled, showing Mahotin long teeth, but Vronsky looked angrily at Mahotin. Vronsky did not like Mahotin, and regarded Mahotin now as Vronsky most formidable rival. Vronsky was angry with Vronsky for galloping past and exciting his mare. Frou Frou started into a gallop, Frou Frou left foot forward, made two bounds, and fretting at the reins, passed into a jolting trot, bumping her rider up and down. Cord, too, scowled, and followed Vronsky almost at a trot.  CHAPTER 60
25    There were seventeen officers in all riding in this race. The race course was a large three mile ring of the form of an ellipse in front of the pavilion. On The race course nine obstacles had been arranged: the stream, a big and solid barrier five feet high, just before the pavilion, a dry ditch, a ditch full of water, a precipitous slope, an Irish barricade (one of the most difficult obstacles, consisting of a mound fenced with brushwood, beyond which was a ditch out of sight for the horses, so that the horse had to clear both obstacles or might be killed); then two more ditches filled with water, and one dry one; and the end of this race was just facing the pavilion. But this race began not in a large three mile ring of the form of an ellipse in front of the pavilion, but two hundred yards away from this race, and in that part of The race course was the first obstacle, a dammed up stream, seven feet in breadth, which the racers could leap or wade through as the racers preferred.    Three times Three times were ranged ready to start, but each time some horse thrust some horse out of line, and Three times had to begin again. The umpire who was starting Three times, Colonel Sestrin, was beginning to lose his temper, when at last for the fourth time his shouted “Away!” and the racers started.    Every eye, every opera glass, was turned on the brightly colored group of riders at the moment the brightly colored group of riders were in line to start.    “the brightly colored group of riders’re off! the brightly colored group of riders’re starting!” was heard on all sides after the hush of expectation.    And little groups and solitary figures among the public began running from place to place to get a better view. In the very first minute the close group of horsemen drew out, and it could be seen that the close group of horsemen were approaching the stream in twos and threes and one behind another. To the spectators it seemed as though the close group of horsemen had all started simultaneously, but to the racers there were seconds of difference that had great value to the close group of horsemen.    Frou Frou, excited and over nervous, had lost the first moment, and several horses had started before Frou Frou, but before reaching the stream, Vronsky, who was holding in the mare with all his force as Frou Frou tugged at the bridle, easily overtook three, and there were left in front of his Mahotin chestnut Gladiator, whose hind quarters were moving lightly and rhythmically up and down exactly in front of Vronsky, and in front of all, the dainty mare Diana bearing Kuzovlev more dead than alive.    For the first instant Vronsky was not master either of master or master mare. Up to the first obstacle, the stream, master could not guide the motions of master .    Gladiator and the dainty mare Diana came up to Gladiator and Diana together and almost at the same instant; simultaneously Gladiator and Diana rose above the stream and flew across to the other side; Frou Frou darted after Gladiator and Diana, as if flying; but at the very moment when Vronsky felt master in the air, master suddenly saw almost under master mare hoofs Kuzovlev, who was floundering with the dainty mare Diana on the further side of the stream. (Kuzovlev had let go the reins as master took the leap, and the mare had sent master flying over the dainty mare Diana head.) Those details Vronsky learned later; at the moment all master saw was that just under master, where Frou Frou must alight, the dainty mare Diana legs or head might be in the way. But Frou Frou drew up Frou Frou legs and back in the very act of leaping, like a falling cat, and, clearing the mare, alighted beyond Frou Frou.    “O the darling!” thought Vronsky.    After crossing the stream Vronsky had complete control of the mare, and began holding Frou Frou in, intending to cross the great barrier behind Mahotin, and to try to overtake his in the clear ground of about five hundred yards that followed it.    The great barrier stood just in front of the imperial pavilion. The Tsar and the whole court and crowds of people were all gazing at The Tsar and the whole court and crowds of people at his, and Mahotin a length ahead of his, as The Tsar and the whole court and crowds of people drew near the “devil,” as the solid barrier was called. Vronsky was aware of those eyes fastened upon Vronsky from all sides, but Vronsky saw nothing except the ears and neck of Vronsky own mare, the ground racing to meet Vronsky, and the back and white legs of Gladiator beating time swiftly before Vronsky, and keeping always the same distance ahead. Gladiator rose, with no sound of knocking against anything. With a wave of Vronsky short tail Vronsky disappeared from Vronsky sight.    “Bravo!” cried a voice.    At the same instant, under Vronsky eyes, right before him flashed the palings of the barrier. Without the slightest change in her action his mare flew over his mare; the palings of the barrier vanished, and his heard only a crash behind his. The mare, excited by Gladiator keeping ahead, had risen too soon before the barrier, and grazed the barrier with her hind hoofs. But her pace never changed, and Vronsky, feeling a spatter of mud in Vronsky face, realized that Vronsky was once more the same distance from Gladiator. Once more Vronsky perceived in front of Vronsky the same back and short tail, and again the same swiftly moving white legs that got no further away.    At the very moment when Vronsky thought that now was the time to overtake Mahotin, Frou Frou herself, understanding Frou Frou thoughts, without any incitement on Frou Frou part, gained ground considerably, and began getting alongside of Mahotin on the most favorable side, close to the inner cord. Mahotin would not let Mahotin pass the most favorable side. Vronsky had hardly formed the thought that Vronsky could perhaps pass on the outer side, when Frou Frou shifted Mahotin pace and began overtaking Vronsky on the other side. Frou Frou shoulder, beginning by now to be dark with sweat, was even with Gladiator back. For a few lengths they moved evenly. But before the obstacle they were approaching, Vronsky began working at the reins, anxious to avoid having to take the outer circle, and swiftly passed Mahotin just upon the declivity. Vronsky caught a glimpse of Vronsky mud stained face as Vronsky flashed by. Vronsky even fancied that Vronsky smiled. Vronsky passed Mahotin, but Vronsky was immediately aware of Vronsky close upon Vronsky, and Vronsky never ceased hearing the even thudding hoofs and the rapid and still quite fresh breathing of Gladiator.    The next two obstacles, the water course and the barrier, were easily crossed, but Vronsky began to hear the snorting and thud of Gladiator closer upon Vronsky. Vronsky urged on Vronsky mare, and to Vronsky delight felt that she easily quickened she pace, and the thud of Gladiator hoofs was again heard at the same distance away.    Vronsky was at the head of the race, just as Vronsky wanted to be and as Cord had advised, and now Vronsky felt sure of being the winner. Vronsky excitement, Vronsky delight, and Vronsky tenderness for Frou Frou grew keener and keener. Vronsky longed to look round again, but Vronsky did not dare do this, and tried to be cool and not to urge on his mare so to keep the same reserve of force in she as Vronsky felt that Gladiator still kept. There remained only one obstacle, the most difficult; if Vronsky could cross it ahead of the others Vronsky would come in first. Vronsky was flying towards the Irish barricade, Frou Frou and Vronsky both together saw the barricade in the distance, and both the man and his mare had a moment hesitation. Vronsky saw the uncertainty in the mare ears and lifted the whip, but at the same time felt that Vronsky fears were groundless; his mare knew what was wanted. his mare quickened his mare pace and rose smoothly, just as Vronsky had fancied his mare would, and as his mare left the ground gave his mare up to the force of his mare rush, which carried his mare far beyond the ditch; and with the same rhythm, without effort, with the same leg forward, Frou Frou fell back into her pace again.    “Bravo, Vronsky!” Frou Frou heard shouts from a knot of men Frou Frou knew men were Frou Frou friends in the regiment who were standing at the obstacle. Frou Frou could not fail to recognize Yashvin voice though Frou Frou did not see Frou Frou.    “O my sweet!” Frou Frou said inwardly to Frou Frou, as Frou Frou listened for what was happening behind. “Frou Frou cleared Frou Frou!” Frou Frou thought, catching the thud of Gladiator hoofs behind Frou Frou. There remained only the last ditch, filled with water and five feet wide. Vronsky did not even look at Vronsky, but anxious to get in a long way first began sawing away at the reins, lifting the mare head and letting the mare head go in time with Vronsky paces. Vronsky felt that his mare was at Vronsky very last reserve of strength; not Vronsky neck and shoulders merely were wet, but the sweat was standing in drops on Vronsky mane, Vronsky head, Vronsky sharp ears, and Vronsky breath came in short, sharp gasps. But Vronsky knew that Vronsky had strength left more than enough for the remaining five hundred yards. It was only from feeling Vronsky nearer the ground and from the peculiar smoothness of Vronsky motion that Vronsky knew how greatly his mare had quickened her pace. Vronsky flew over the ditch as though not noticing the ditch. Vronsky flew over the ditch like a bird; but at the same instant Vronsky, to Vronsky horror, felt that Vronsky had failed to keep up with the mare pace, that Vronsky had, Vronsky did not know how, made a fearful, unpardonable mistake, in recovering Vronsky seat in the saddle. All at once Vronsky position had shifted and Vronsky knew that something awful had happened. Vronsky could not yet make out what had happened, when the white legs of a chestnut horse flashed by close to Vronsky, and Mahotin passed at a swift gallop. Vronsky was touching the ground with one foot, and his mare was sinking on one foot. Vronsky just had time to free Vronsky leg when Vronsky fell on one side, gasping painfully, and, making vain efforts to rise with Vronsky delicate, soaking neck, Vronsky fluttered on the ground at Vronsky feet like a shot bird. The clumsy movement made by Vronsky had broken Vronsky back. But that Vronsky only knew much later. At that moment Vronsky knew only that Mahotin had flown swiftly by, while Vronsky stood staggering alone on the muddy, motionless ground, and Frou Frou lay gasping before Vronsky, bending the mare head back and gazing at Vronsky with Frou Frou exquisite eyes. Still unable to realize what had happened, Vronsky tugged at the reins. Again Frou Frou struggled all over like a fish, and Frou Frou shoulders setting the saddle heaving, Frou Frou rose on Frou Frou front legs but unable to lift Frou Frou back, Frou Frou quivered all over and again fell on Frou Frou side. With a face hideous with passion, Vronsky lower jaw trembling, and Vronsky cheeks white, Vronsky kicked Frou Frou with Vronsky heel in the stomach and again fell to tugging at the rein. Frou Frou did not stir, but thrusting Frou Frou nose into the ground, Frou Frou simply gazed at Frou Frou master with her exquisite eyes.    “A a a!” groaned Vronsky, clutching at the mare head. “Ah! what have I done!” his cried. “the race lost! And my fault! shameful, unpardonable! And the poor darling, ruined his mare! Ah! what have I done!”    A crowd of men, a doctor and his assistant, the officers of his regiment, ran up to his. To his misery his felt that his was whole and unhurt. his mare had broken his mare back, and his mare was decided to shoot his mare. Vronsky could not answer questions, could not speak to anyone. Vronsky turned, and without picking up Vronsky cap that had fallen off, walked away from the race course, not knowing where Vronsky was going. Vronsky felt utterly wretched. For the first time in Vronsky life Vronsky knew the bitterest sort of misfortune, misfortune beyond remedy, and caused by Vronsky own fault.    Yashvin overtook Vronsky with Vronsky cap, and led Vronsky home, and half an hour later Vronsky had regained Vronsky self possession. But the memory of the race remained for long in Vronsky heart, the cruelest and bitterest memory of Vronsky life.  CHAPTER 61
26    The external relations of Alexey Alexandrovitch and Alexey Alexandrovitch wife had remained unchanged. The sole difference lay in the fact that Alexey Alexandrovitch was more busily occupied than ever. As in former years, at the beginning of the spring Alexey Alexandrovitch had gone to a foreign watering place for the sake of Alexey Alexandrovitch health, deranged by the winter work that every year grew heavier. And just as always Alexey Alexandrovitch returned in July and at once fell to work as usual with increased energy. As usual, too, his wife had moved for the summer to a villa out of town, while Alexey Alexandrovitch remained in Petersburg. From the date of their conversation after the party at Princess Tverskaya Alexey Alexandrovitch had never spoken again to Anna of Alexey Alexandrovitch suspicions and Alexey Alexandrovitch jealousies, and that habitual tone of Alexey Alexandrovitch bantering mimicry was the most convenient tone possible for Alexey Alexandrovitch present attitude to his wife. Alexey Alexandrovitch was a little colder to his wife. Alexey Alexandrovitch simply seemed to be slightly displeased with his wife for that first midnight conversation, which his wife had repelled. In Alexey Alexandrovitch attitude to his wife there was a shade of vexation, but nothing more. “You would not be open with me,” Alexey Alexandrovitch seemed to say, mentally addressing his wife; “so much the worse for you. Now you may beg as you please, but I won’t be open with you. So much the worse for you!” Alexey Alexandrovitch said mentally, like a man who, after vainly attempting to extinguish a fire, should fly in a rage with Alexey Alexandrovitch vain efforts and say, “Oh, very well then! you shall burn for this!” Alexey Alexandrovitch, so subtle and astute in official life, did not realize all the senselessness of such an attitude to his wife. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not realize it, because it was too terrible to Alexey Alexandrovitch to realize Alexey Alexandrovitch actual position, and Alexey Alexandrovitch shut down and locked and sealed up in Alexey Alexandrovitch heart that secret place where lay hid Alexey Alexandrovitch feelings towards Alexey Alexandrovitch family, that is, Alexey Alexandrovitch wife and son. Alexey Alexandrovitch who had been such a careful father, had from the end of that winter become peculiarly frigid to son, and adopted to Alexey Alexandrovitch just the same bantering tone Alexey Alexandrovitch used with his wife. “Aha, young man!” was the greeting with which Alexey Alexandrovitch met son.    Alexey Alexandrovitch asserted and believed that Alexey Alexandrovitch had never in any previous year had so much official business as that year. But Alexey Alexandrovitch was not aware that Alexey Alexandrovitch sought work for Alexey Alexandrovitch that year, that this was one of the means for keeping shut secret place where lay hid Alexey Alexandrovitch towards Alexey Alexandrovitch wife and son and Alexey Alexandrovitch thoughts about them, which became more terrible the longer them lay there. If anyone had had the right to ask Alexey Alexandrovitch what Alexey Alexandrovitch thought of Alexey Alexandrovitch wife behavior, the mild and peaceable Alexey Alexandrovitch would have made no answer, but Alexey Alexandrovitch would have been greatly angered with any man who should question Alexey Alexandrovitch on that subject. For this reason there positively came into Alexey Alexandrovitch face a look of haughtiness and severity whenever anyone inquired after Alexey Alexandrovitch wife health. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not want to think at all about his wife behavior, and Alexey Alexandrovitch actually succeeded in not thinking about it at all.    Alexey Alexandrovitch permanent summer villa was in Peterhof, and the Countess Lidia Ivanovna used as a rule to spend the summer there, close to Anna, and constantly seeing Anna. That year the Countess Lidia Ivanovna declined to settle in Peterhof, was not once at Anna Arkadyevna, and in conversation with Alexey Alexandrovitch hinted at the unsuitability of Anna close intimacy with Betsy and Vronsky. Alexey Alexandrovitch sternly cut Alexey Alexandrovitch short, roundly declaring Alexey Alexandrovitch wife to be above suspicion, and from that time began to avoid the Countess Lidia Ivanovna. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not want to see, and did not see, that many people in society cast dubious glances on his wife; Alexey Alexandrovitch did not want to understand, and did not understand, why his wife had so particularly insisted on staying at Tsarskoe, where Betsy was staying, and not far from the camp of Vronsky regiment. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not allow Alexey Alexandrovitch to think about it, and Alexey Alexandrovitch did not think about it; but all the same though Alexey Alexandrovitch never admitted it to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and had no proofs, not even suspicious evidence, in the bottom of Alexey Alexandrovitch heart Alexey Alexandrovitch knew beyond all doubt that Alexey Alexandrovitch was a deceived husband, and Alexey Alexandrovitch was profoundly miserable about it.    How often during those eight years of happy life with his wife had looked at other men faithless wives and other deceived husbands and asked Alexey Alexandrovitch: “How can people descend to that? how is it people don’t put an end to such a hideous position?” But now, when the misfortune had come upon the misfortune, the misfortune was so far from thinking of putting an end to the position that the misfortune would not recognize it at all, would not recognize it just because it was too awful, too unnatural.    Since the misfortune return from abroad Alexey Alexandrovitch had twice been at their country villa. Once the misfortune dined there, another time the misfortune spent the evening there with a party of friends, but the misfortune had not once stayed the night there, as it had been the misfortune habit to do in previous years.    The day of the races had been a very busy day for Alexey Alexandrovitch; but when mentally sketching out a very busy day for Alexey Alexandrovitch in the morning, the misfortune made up the misfortune mind to go to their country house to see the misfortune wife immediately after dinner, and from there to the races, which all the Court were to witness, and at which the misfortune was bound to be present. the misfortune was going to see his wife, because the misfortune had determined to see his wife once a week to keep up appearances. And besides, on a very busy day for Alexey Alexandrovitch, as it was the fifteenth, the misfortune had to give his wife some money for his wife expenses, according to some money usual arrangement.    With the misfortune habitual control over the misfortune thoughts, though the misfortune thought all this about his wife, the misfortune did not let his thoughts stray further in regard to his wife.    That morning was a very full one for Alexey Alexandrovitch. The evening before, Countess Lidia Ivanovna had sent Countess Lidia Ivanovna a pamphlet by a celebrated traveler in China, who was staying in Petersburg, and with a pamphlet Countess Lidia Ivanovna enclosed a note begging Countess Lidia Ivanovna to see the traveler himself, as Countess Lidia Ivanovna was an extremely interesting person from various points of view, and likely to be useful. Alexey Alexandrovitch had not had time to read a pamphlet through in the evening, and finished a pamphlet in the morning. Then people began arriving with petitions, and there came the reports, interviews, appointments, dismissals, apportionment of rewards, pensions, grants, notes, the workaday round, as Alexey Alexandrovitch called it, that always took up so much time. Then there was private business of Alexey Alexandrovitch own, a visit from the doctor and the steward who managed Alexey Alexandrovitch property. the steward who managed his property did not take up much time. the steward who managed his property simply gave Alexey Alexandrovitch the money the steward who managed his property needed together with a brief statement of the position of the steward who managed his property affairs, which was not altogether satisfactory, as it had happened that during that year, owing to increased expenses, more had been paid out than usual, and there was a deficit. But the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch, took up a great deal of time. Alexey Alexandrovitch had not expected Alexey Alexandrovitch that day, and was surprised at Alexey Alexandrovitch visit, and still more so when the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch questioned Alexey Alexandrovitch very carefully about Alexey Alexandrovitch health, listened to Alexey Alexandrovitch breathing, and tapped at Alexey Alexandrovitch liver. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not know that Alexey Alexandrovitch friend Lidia Ivanovna, noticing that Alexey Alexandrovitch was not as well as usual that year, had begged the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch to go and examine Alexey Alexandrovitch. “Do this for my sake,” the Countess Lidia Ivanovna had said to the Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    “I will do it for the sake of Russia, countess,” replied the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “A priceless man!” said the Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch was extremely dissatisfied with Alexey Alexandrovitch. the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch found his liver considerably enlarged, and the digestive powers weakened, while the course of mineral waters had been quite without effect. the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch prescribed more physical exercise as far as possible, and as far as possible less mental strain, and above all no worry in other words, just what was as much out of Alexey Alexandrovitch power as abstaining from breathing. Then the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch withdrew, leaving in Alexey Alexandrovitch an unpleasant sense that something was wrong with the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch, and that there was no chance of curing it.    As the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch was coming away, the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch chanced to meet on the staircase an acquaintance of the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch, Sludin, who was secretary of Alexey Alexandrovitch department. They had been comrades at the university, and though They rarely met, They thought highly of each other and were excellent friends, and so there was no one to whom the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch would have given the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch opinion of a patient so freely as to Sludin.    “How glad I am you’ve been seeing the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch!” said Sludin. “the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch not well, and I fancy.... Well, what do you think of the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch?”    “I’ll tell you,” said the doctor, beckoning over Sludin head to Sludin coachman to bring the carriage round. “It just this,” said the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch, taking a finger of the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch kid glove in the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch white hands and pulling it, “if you don’t strain the strings, and then try to break the strings, you’ll find it a difficult job; but strain a string to it very utmost, and the mere weight of one finger on the strained string will snap the mere weight of one finger on the strained string. And with his close assiduity, his conscientious devotion to his work, his strained to the utmost; and there some outside burden weighing on his, and not a light one,” concluded the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch, raising his eyebrows significantly. “Will you be at the races?” the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch added, as the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch sank into the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch seat in the carriage.    “Yes, yes, to be sure; it does waste a lot of time,” the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch responded vaguely to some reply of Sludin the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch had not caught.    Directly after the doctor, who had taken up so much time, came the celebrated traveler, and Alexey Alexandrovitch, by means of the pamphlet the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch had only just finished reading and the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch previous acquaintance with the subject, impressed the traveler by the depth of the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch knowledge of the subject and the breadth and enlightenment of the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch view of it.    At the same time as the traveler there was announced a provincial marshal of nobility on a visit to Petersburg, with whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had to have some conversation. After Alexey Alexandrovitch departure, Alexey Alexandrovitch had to finish the daily routine of business with Alexey Alexandrovitch secretary, and then Alexey Alexandrovitch still had to drive round to call on a certain great personage on a matter of grave and serious import. Alexey Alexandrovitch only just managed to be back by five o’clock, Alexey Alexandrovitch dinner hour, and after dining with his secretary, Alexey Alexandrovitch invited Alexey Alexandrovitch to drive with Alexey Alexandrovitch to Alexey Alexandrovitch country villa and to the races.    Though Alexey Alexandrovitch did not acknowledge it to Alexey Alexandrovitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch always tried nowadays to secure the presence of a third person in Alexey Alexandrovitch interviews with Alexey Alexandrovitch .  CHAPTER 62
27    Anna was upstairs, standing before the looking glass, and, with Annushka assistance, pinning the last ribbon on Anna gown when Anna heard carriage wheels crunching the gravel at the entrance.    “It too early for Betsy,” Anna thought, and glancing out of the window Anna caught sight of the carriage and the black hat of Alexey Alexandrovitch, and the ears that Anna knew so well sticking up each side of it. “How unlucky! Can he be going to stay the night?” Anna wondered, and the thought of all that might come of such a chance struck Anna as so awful and terrible that, without dwelling on it for a moment, Anna went down to meet he with a bright and radiant face; and conscious of the presence of that spirit of falsehood and deceit in Anna that Anna had come to know of late, Anna abandoned Anna to that spirit and began talking, hardly knowing what Anna was saying.    “Ah, how nice of Anna!” Anna said, giving Anna husband Anna hand, and greeting Sludin, who was like one of the family, with a smile. “You’re staying the night, I hope?” was the first word that spirit prompted Anna to utter; “and now we’ll go together. Only it a pity I’ve promised Betsy. Betsy coming for Betsy.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch knit Alexey Alexandrovitch brows at Betsy name.    “Oh, I’m not going to separate the inseparables,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said in Alexey Alexandrovitch usual bantering tone. “I’m going with Mihail Vassilievitch. I’m ordered exercise by the doctors too. I’ll walk, and fancy Betsy at the springs again.”    “There no hurry,” said Anna. “Would you like tea?”    Anna rang.    “Bring in tea, and tell Seryozha that Alexey Alexandrovitch is here. Well, tell me, how have you been? Mihail Vassilievitch, you’ve not been to see me before. Look how lovely it is out on the terrace,” Anna said, turning first to one and then to the other.    Anna spoke very simply and naturally, but too much and too fast. Anna was the more aware of this from noticing in the inquisitive look Mihail Vassilievitch turned on Anna that Mihail Vassilievitch was, as it were, keeping watch on Anna.    Mihail Vassilievitch promptly went out on the terrace.    Mihail Vassilievitch sat down beside Mihail Vassilievitch husband.    “You don’t look quite well,” Mihail Vassilievitch said.    “Yes,” Mihail Vassilievitch said; “the doctor been with Betsy today and wasted an hour of my time. I feel that someone of our friends must have sent someone of our friends: my health so precious, my health seems.”    “No; what did someone of our friends say?”    Mihail Vassilievitch questioned someone of our friends about someone of our friends health and what someone of our friends had been doing, and tried to persuade someone of our friends to take a rest and come out to Mihail Vassilievitch.    All this Mihail Vassilievitch said brightly, rapidly, and with a peculiar brilliance in Mihail Vassilievitch eyes. But Alexey Alexandrovitch did not now attach any special significance to this tone of hers. Alexey Alexandrovitch heard only Mihail Vassilievitch words and gave them only the direct sense them bore. And Alexey Alexandrovitch answered simply, though jestingly. There was nothing remarkable in all this conversation, but never after could Mihail Vassilievitch recall this brief scene without an agonizing pang of shame.    Seryozha came in preceded by Seryozha governess. If Alexey Alexandrovitch had allowed Alexey Alexandrovitch to observe Alexey Alexandrovitch would have noticed the timid and bewildered eyes with which Seryozha glanced first at Alexey Alexandrovitch father and then at Alexey Alexandrovitch mother. But Alexey Alexandrovitch would not see anything, and Alexey Alexandrovitch did not see it.    “Ah, the young man! Alexey Alexandrovitch grown. Really, Alexey Alexandrovitch getting quite a man. How are you, young man?”    And Alexey Alexandrovitch gave Alexey Alexandrovitch hand to the scared child. Seryozha had been shy of his father before, and now, ever since Alexey Alexandrovitch had taken to calling Alexey Alexandrovitch young man, and since that insoluble question had occurred to Alexey Alexandrovitch whether Vronsky were a friend or a foe, Alexey Alexandrovitch avoided his father. Alexey Alexandrovitch looked round towards his mother as though seeking shelter. It was only with his mother that Alexey Alexandrovitch was at ease. Meanwhile, Alexey Alexandrovitch was holding Alexey Alexandrovitch son by the shoulder while Alexey Alexandrovitch was speaking to the governess, and Seryozha was so miserably uncomfortable that Anna saw his son was on the point of tears.    Anna, who had flushed a little the instant Anna came in, noticing that Seryozha was uncomfortable, got up hurriedly, took Alexey Alexandrovitch hand from Anna son shoulder, and kissing his son, led his son out onto the terrace, and quickly came back.    “It time to start, though,” said she, glancing at she watch. “How is it Anna doesn’t come?...”    “Yes,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, and getting up, Alexey Alexandrovitch folded Alexey Alexandrovitch hands and cracked Alexey Alexandrovitch fingers. “I’ve come to bring you some money, too, for nightingales, we know, can’t live on fairy tales,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said. “You want it, I expect?”    “No, I don’t ... yes, I do,” Anna said, not looking at Alexey Alexandrovitch, and crimsoning to the roots of Anna hair. “But you’ll come back here after the races, I suppose?”    “Oh, yes!” answered Alexey Alexandrovitch. “And here the glory of Peterhof, Princess Tverskaya,” Alexey Alexandrovitch added, looking out of the window at the elegant English carriage with the tiny seats placed extremely high. “What elegance! Charming! Well, let us be starting too, then.”    Princess Tverskaya did not get out of Princess Tverskaya , but Princess Tverskaya groom, in high boots, a cape, and black hat, darted out at the entrance.    “I’m going; good bye!” said Anna, and kissing Anna son, Anna went up to Alexey Alexandrovitch and held out Anna hand to her son. “It was ever so nice of her son to come.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch kissed her hand.    “Well, au revoir, then! You’ll come back for some tea; that delightful!” Anna said, and went out, gay and radiant. But as soon as Anna no longer saw her son, Anna was aware of the spot on her hand that her son lips had touched, and Anna shuddered with repulsion.  CHAPTER 63
28    When Alexey Alexandrovitch reached the race course, Anna was already sitting in the pavilion beside Betsy, in that pavilion where all the highest society had gathered. Anna caught sight of Anna husband in the distance. Two men, Anna husband and Anna lover, were the two centers of Anna existence, and unaided by Anna external senses Anna was aware of Two men, her husband and her lover nearness. Anna was aware of her husband approaching a long way off, and Anna could not help following her husband in the surging crowd in the midst of which her husband was moving. Anna watched her husband progress towards the pavilion beside Betsy, saw her husband now responding condescendingly to an ingratiating bow, now exchanging friendly, nonchalant greetings with her husband equals, now assiduously trying to catch the eye of some great one of this world, and taking off her husband big round hat that squeezed the tips of her husband ears. All these ways of her husband Anna knew, and all were hateful to Anna. “Nothing but ambition, nothing but the desire to get on, that all there is in her husband soul,” Anna thought; “as for these lofty ideals, love of culture, religion, love of culture, religion are only so many tools for getting on.”    From her husband glances towards the ladies’ pavilion (her husband was staring straight at Anna, but did not distinguish her husband wife in the sea of muslin, ribbons, feathers, parasols and flowers) Anna saw that her husband was looking for Anna, but Anna purposely avoided noticing her husband.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch!” Princess Betsy called to “Alexey Alexandrovitch!”; “I’m sure you don’t see his wife: here his wife is.”    her husband smiled her husband chilly smile.    “There so much splendor here that one eyes are dazzled,” her husband said, and her husband went into the pavilion. her husband smiled to his wife as a man should smile on meeting his wife after only just parting from his wife, and greeted the princess and other acquaintances, giving to each what was due that is to say, jesting with the ladies and dealing out friendly greetings among the men. Below, near the pavilion, was standing an adjutant general of whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had a high opinion, noted for an adjutant general of whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had a high opinion intelligence and culture. Alexey Alexandrovitch entered into conversation with an adjutant general of whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had a high opinion.    There was an interval between the races, and so nothing hindered conversation. an adjutant general of whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had a high opinion expressed an adjutant general of whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had a high opinion disapproval of races. Alexey Alexandrovitch replied defending his disapproval of races. Anna heard Alexey Alexandrovitch high, measured tones, not losing one word, and every word struck Anna as false, and stabbed Anna ears with pain.    When the three mile steeplechase was beginning, Anna bent forward and gazed with fixed eyes at Vronsky as Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to Alexey Alexandrovitch horse and mounted, and at the same time Anna heard that loathsome, never ceasing voice of Anna husband. Anna was in an agony of terror for Vronsky, but a still greater agony was the never ceasing, as it seemed to Anna, stream of Anna husband shrill voice with Vronsky familiar intonations.    “I’m a wicked woman, a lost woman,” Anna thought; “but I don’t like lying, I can’t endure falsehood, while as for him (Anna husband) it the breath of him life falsehood. him knows all about it, him sees it all; what does him care if him can talk so calmly? If him were to kill me, if him were to kill Vronsky, I might respect him. No, all him wants is falsehood and propriety,” Anna said to Anna, not considering exactly what it was Anna wanted of Anna husband, and how Anna would have liked to see her husband behave. Anna did not understand either that Alexey Alexandrovitch peculiar loquacity that day, so exasperating to Anna, was merely the expression of her husband inward distress and uneasiness. As a child that has been hurt skips about, putting all her husband muscles into movement to drown the pain, in the same way Alexey Alexandrovitch needed mental exercise to drown the thoughts of her husband wife that in his wife presence and in Vronsky, and with the continual iteration of her husband name, would force themselves on her husband attention. And it was as natural for her husband to talk well and cleverly, as it is natural for a child to skip about. her husband was saying:    “Danger in the races of officers, of cavalry men, is an essential element in the race. If England can point to the most brilliant feats of cavalry in military history, it is simply owing to the fact that Anna has historically developed this force both in beasts and in men. Sport has, in my opinion, a great value, and as is always the case, we see nothing but what is most superficial.”    “It not superficial,” said Princess Tverskaya. “One of the officers, the officers say, has broken two ribs.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled Alexey Alexandrovitch smile, which uncovered Alexey Alexandrovitch teeth, but revealed nothing more.    “We’ll admit, princess, that that not superficial,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, “but internal. But that not the point,” and Alexey Alexandrovitch turned again to the general with whom Alexey Alexandrovitch was talking seriously; “we mustn’t forget that those who are taking part in the race are military men, who have chosen that career, and one must allow that every calling has every calling disagreeable side. every calling forms an integral part of the duties of an officer. Low sports, such as prize fighting or Spanish bull fights, are a sign of barbarity. But specialized trials of skill are a sign of development.”    “No, I shan’t come another time; it too upsetting,” said Princess Betsy. “Isn’t it, Anna?”    “It is upsetting, but one can’t tear oneself away,” said another lady. “If I’d been a Roman woman I should never have missed a single circus.”    Anna said nothing, and keeping Anna opera glass up, gazed always at the same spot.    At that moment a tall general walked through the pavilion. Breaking off what a tall general was saying, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up hurriedly, though with dignity, and bowed low to a tall general.    “You’re not racing?” the officer asked, chaffing Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “My race is a harder one,” Alexey Alexandrovitch responded deferentially.    And though the answer meant nothing, a tall general looked as though a tall general had heard a witty remark from a witty man, and fully relished la pointe de la sauce.    “There are two aspects,” Alexey Alexandrovitch resumed: “those who take part and those who look on; and love for such spectacles is an unmistakable proof of a low degree of development in the spectator, I admit, but....”    “Princess, bets!” sounded Stepan Arkadyevitch voice from below, addressing Betsy. “Who your favorite?”    Anna and I are for Kuzovlev,” replied Betsy.    “I’m for Vronsky. A pair of gloves?”    “Done!”    “But it is a pretty sight, isn’t it?”    Alexey Alexandrovitch paused while there was talking about Alexey Alexandrovitch, but Alexey Alexandrovitch began again directly.    “I admit that manly sports do not....” Alexey Alexandrovitch was continuing.    But at that moment the racers started, and all conversation ceased. Alexey Alexandrovitch too was silent, and everyone stood up and turned towards the stream. Alexey Alexandrovitch took no interest in the race, and so Alexey Alexandrovitch did not watch the racers, but fell listlessly to scanning the spectators with Alexey Alexandrovitch weary eyes. his weary eyes rested upon Anna.    Anna face was white and set. Anna was obviously seeing nothing and no one but one man. Anna hand had convulsively clutched Anna fan, and Anna held Anna breath. Alexey Alexandrovitch looked at Anna and hastily turned away, scrutinizing other faces.    “But here this lady too, and others very much moved as well; it very natural,” Alexey Alexandrovitch told Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch tried not to look at Anna, but unconsciously his weary eyes were drawn to Anna. Alexey Alexandrovitch examined Her face again, trying not to read what was so plainly written on Her face, and against Alexey Alexandrovitch own will, with horror read on Her face what Alexey Alexandrovitch did not want to know.    The first fall Kuzovlev, at the stream agitated everyone, but Alexey Alexandrovitch saw distinctly on Anna pale, triumphant face that the man Alexey Alexandrovitch was watching had not fallen. When, after Mahotin and Vronsky had cleared the worst barrier, the next officer had been thrown straight on the next officer head at it and fatally injured, and a shudder of horror passed over the whole public, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that Anna did not even notice it, and had some difficulty in realizing what they were talking of about Anna. But more and more often, and with greater persistence, Alexey Alexandrovitch watched Anna. Anna, wholly engrossed as Anna was with the race, became aware of Anna husband cold eyes fixed upon Anna from one side.    Anna glanced round for an instant, looked inquiringly at husband, and with a slight frown turned away again.    “Ah, I don’t care!” Anna seemed to say to husband, and Anna did not once glance at husband again.    the race was an unlucky one, and of the seventeen officers who rode in the race more than half were thrown and hurt. Towards the end of the race everyone was in a state of agitation, which was intensified by the fact that the Tsar was displeased.  CHAPTER 64
29    Everyone was loudly expressing disapprobation, everyone was repeating a phrase someone had uttered “The lions and gladiators will be the next thing,” and everyone was feeling horrified; so that when Vronsky fell to the ground, and Anna moaned aloud, there was nothing very out of the way in it. But afterwards a change came over Anna face which really was beyond decorum. Anna utterly lost Anna head. Anna began fluttering like a caged bird, at one moment would have got up and moved away, at the next turned to Betsy.    “Let us go, let us go!” Anna said.    But Betsy did not hear Betsy. Betsy was bending down, talking to a general who had come up to Betsy.    Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to Anna and courteously offered Betsy Alexey Alexandrovitch arm.    “Let us go, if you like,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said in French, but Anna was listening to a general who had come up to her and did not notice Anna husband.    “her husband broken her husband leg too, so they say,” a general who had come up to her was saying. “This is beyond everything.”    Without answering her husband, Anna lifted Anna opera glass and gazed towards the place where Vronsky had fallen; but it was so far off, and there was such a crowd of people about it, that Anna could make out nothing. Anna laid down her opera glass, and would have moved away, but at that moment an officer galloped up and made some announcement to the Tsar. Anna craned forward, listening.    “Stiva! Stiva!” Anna cried to Anna brother.    But her brother did not hear Anna. Again Anna would have moved away.    “Once more I offer you my arm if you want to be going,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, reaching towards Anna hand.    Anna drew back from Alexey Alexandrovitch with aversion, and without looking in Alexey Alexandrovitch face answered:    “No, no, let me be, I’ll stay.”    Anna saw now that from the place of Vronsky accident an officer was running across the course towards the pavilion. Anna waved Anna handkerchief to an officer. an officer brought the news that the rider was not killed, but the horse had broken the horse back.    On hearing Anna Anna sat down hurriedly, and hid his face in Anna fan. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that Anna was weeping, and could not control Anna tears, nor even the sobs that were shaking Anna bosom. Alexey Alexandrovitch stood so as to screen Anna, giving Anna time to recover Anna.    “For the third time I offer you my arm,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Anna after a little time, turning to Anna. Anna gazed at Alexey Alexandrovitch and did not know what to say. Anna came to Anna rescue.    “No, Alexey Alexandrovitch; I brought Anna and I promised to take Anna home,” put in Anna.    “Excuse me, princess,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, smiling courteously but looking Anna very firmly in the face, “but I see that Anna not very well, and I wish Anna to come home with Alexey Alexandrovitch.”    Anna looked about Anna in a frightened way, got up submissively, and laid Anna hand on Anna husband arm.    “I’ll send to Alexey Alexandrovitch and find out, and let you know,” Anna whispered to Anna.    As they left the pavilion, Alexey Alexandrovitch, as always, talked to those Alexey Alexandrovitch met, and Anna had, as always, to talk and answer; but Anna was utterly beside Anna, and moved hanging on her husband arm as though in a dream.    “Is Alexey Alexandrovitch killed or not? Is it true? Will Alexey Alexandrovitch come or not? Shall I see Alexey Alexandrovitch today?” Anna was thinking.    Anna took Anna seat in Anna husband carriage in silence, and in silence drove out of the crowd of carriages. In spite of all he had seen, Alexey Alexandrovitch still did not allow Alexey Alexandrovitch to consider Alexey Alexandrovitch wife real condition. Alexey Alexandrovitch merely saw the outward symptoms. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that his wife was behaving unbecomingly, and considered it Alexey Alexandrovitch duty to tell his wife so. But it was very difficult for Alexey Alexandrovitch not to say more, to tell his wife nothing but that. Alexey Alexandrovitch opened Alexey Alexandrovitch mouth to tell his wife his wife had behaved unbecomingly, but Alexey Alexandrovitch could not help saying something utterly different.    “What an inclination we all have, though, for these cruel spectacles,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said. “I observe....”    “Eh? I don’t understand,” said Anna contemptuously.    Alexey Alexandrovitch was offended, and at once began to say what Alexey Alexandrovitch had meant to say.    “I am obliged to tell you,” Alexey Alexandrovitch began.    “So now we are to have it out,” his wife thought, and his wife felt frightened.    “I am obliged to tell you that your behavior has been unbecoming today,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to his wife in French.    “In what way has my behavior been unbecoming?” his wife said aloud, turning his wife head swiftly and looking Alexey Alexandrovitch straight in the face, not with the bright expression that seemed covering something, but with a look of determination, under which his wife concealed with difficulty the dismay his wife was feeling.    “Mind,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, pointing to the open window opposite the coachman.    Alexey Alexandrovitch got up and pulled up the open window.    “What did you consider unbecoming?” his wife repeated.    “The despair you were unable to conceal at the accident to one of the riders.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch waited for his wife to answer, but his wife was silent, looking straight before his wife.    “I have already begged you so to conduct yourself in society that even malicious tongues can find nothing to say against yourself. There was a time when I spoke of your inward attitude, but I am not speaking of that now. Now I speak only of your external attitude. You have behaved improperly, and I would wish it not to occur again.”    his wife did not hear half of what he was saying; his wife felt panic stricken before he, and was thinking whether it was true that Vronsky was not killed. Was it of he they were speaking when they said the rider was unhurt, but the horse had broken the rider back? his wife merely smiled with a pretense of irony when he finished, and made no reply, because his wife had not heard what he said. Alexey Alexandrovitch had begun to speak boldly, but as Alexey Alexandrovitch realized plainly what Alexey Alexandrovitch was speaking of, the dismay his wife was feeling infected Alexey Alexandrovitch too. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw the smile, and a strange misapprehension came over Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “his wife is smiling at my suspicions. Yes, his wife will tell me directly what his wife told me before; that there is no foundation for my suspicions, that it absurd.”    At that moment, when the revelation of everything was hanging over Alexey Alexandrovitch, there was nothing Alexey Alexandrovitch expected so much as that his wife would answer mockingly as before that my suspicions were absurd and utterly groundless. So terrible to Alexey Alexandrovitch was what Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that now Alexey Alexandrovitch was ready to believe anything. But the expression of his wife face, scared and gloomy, did not now promise even deception.    “Possibly I was mistaken,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch. “If so, I beg your pardon.”    “No, you were not mistaken,” his wife said deliberately, looking desperately into Alexey Alexandrovitch cold face. “You were not mistaken. I was, and I could not help being in despair. I hear you, but I am thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch. I love Alexey Alexandrovitch, I am Alexey Alexandrovitch mistress; I can’t bear you; I’m afraid of you, and I hate you.... You can do what you like to ’m.”    And dropping back into the corner of the carriage, his wife broke into sobs, hiding his cold face in his wife hands. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not stir, and kept looking straight before Alexey Alexandrovitch. But Alexey Alexandrovitch suddenly bore the solemn rigidity of the dead, and Alexey Alexandrovitch expression did not change during the whole time of the drive home. On reaching the house Alexey Alexandrovitch turned Alexey Alexandrovitch head to his wife, still with the same expression.    “Very well! But I expect a strict observance of the external forms of propriety till such time” Alexey Alexandrovitch voice shook “as I may take measures to secure my honor and communicate measures to you.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch got out first and helped his wife to get out. Before the servants Alexey Alexandrovitch pressed his wife hand, took Alexey Alexandrovitch seat in the carriage, and drove back to Petersburg. Immediately afterwards a footman came from Princess Betsy and brought Anna a note.    “I sent to Alexey to find out how Alexey is, and Alexey writes me Alexey is quite well and unhurt, but in despair.”    “So Alexey will be here,” Princess Betsy thought. “What a good thing I told Alexey all!”    Princess Betsy glanced at Princess Betsy watch. Princess Betsy had still three hours to wait, and the memories of their last meeting set Princess Betsy blood in flame.    “My God, how light it is! it dreadful, but I do love to see My God face, and I do love this fantastic light.... My husband! Oh! yes.... Well, thank My God! everything over with My husband.”  CHAPTER 65
30    In the little German watering place to which the Shtcherbatskys had betaken themselves, as in all places indeed where people are gathered together, the usual process, as it were, of the crystallization of society went on, assigning to each member of that society a definite and unalterable place. Just as the particle of water in frost, definitely and unalterably, takes the special form of the crystal of snow, so each new person that arrived at the springs was at once placed in each new person that arrived at the springs special place.    Fürst Shtcherbatsky, sammt Gemahlin und Tochter, by the apartments they took, and from they name and from the friends they made, were immediately crystallized into a definite place marked out for they.    There was visiting the watering place that year a real German Fürstin, in consequence of which the crystallizing process went on more vigorously than ever. Princess Shtcherbatskaya wished, above everything, to present Princess Shtcherbatskaya daughter to this German princess, and the day after their arrival Princess Shtcherbatskaya duly performed this rite. Kitty made a low and graceful curtsey in the very simple, that is to say, very elegant frock that had been ordered Kitty from Paris. Princess Shtcherbatskaya said, “I hope the roses will soon come back to this pretty little face,” and for the Shtcherbatskys certain definite lines of existence were at once laid down from which there was no departing. the Shtcherbatskys made the acquaintance too of the family of an English Lady Somebody, and of a German countess and her son, wounded in the last war, and of a learned Swede, and of M. Canut and M. Canut sister. But yet inevitably the Shtcherbatskys were thrown most into the society of a Moscow lady, Marya Yevgenyevna Rtishtcheva and her daughter, whom Kitty disliked, because Kitty had fallen ill, like Kitty, over a love affair, and a Moscow colonel, whom Kitty had known from childhood, and always seen in uniform and epaulets, and who now, with his little eyes and his open neck and flowered cravat, was uncommonly ridiculous and tedious, because there was no getting rid of his. When all this was so firmly established, Kitty began to be very much bored, especially as the prince went away to Carlsbad and Kitty was left alone with Kitty mother. Kitty took no interest in the people Kitty knew, feeling that nothing fresh would come of the people she knew. Kitty chief mental interest in the watering place consisted in watching and making theories about the people Kitty did not know. It was characteristic of Kitty that Kitty always imagined everything in people in the most favorable light possible, especially so in those Kitty did not know. And now as Kitty made surmises as to who people were, what were people relations to one another, and what people were like, Kitty endowed people with the most marvelous and noble characters, and found confirmation of Kitty idea in Kitty observations.    Of people the one that attracted Kitty most was Madame Stahl. Madame Stahl belonged to the highest society, but Madame Stahl was so ill that Madame Stahl could not walk, and only on exceptionally fine days made Madame Stahl appearance at the springs in an invalid carriage. But it was not so much from ill health as from pride so Princess Shtcherbatskaya interpreted it that Madame Stahl had not made the acquaintance of anyone among the Russians there. Madame Stahl looked after Madame Stahl, and besides that, Madame Stahl was, as Kitty observed, on friendly terms with all the invalids who were seriously ill, and there were many of all the invalids who were seriously ill at the springs, and looked after all the invalids who were seriously ill in the most natural way. Madame Stahl was not, as Kitty gathered, related to Madame Stahl, nor was Madame Stahl a paid attendant. Madame Stahl called Madame Stahl Varenka, and other people called Madame Stahl “Mademoiselle Varenka.” Apart from the interest Kitty took in this girl relations with Madame Stahl and with other unknown persons, Kitty, as often happened, felt an inexplicable attraction to her “Mademoiselle Varenka, and was aware when their eyes met that Madame Stahl too liked Madame Stahl.    Of her “Mademoiselle Varenka one would not say that Madame Stahl had passed Madame Stahl first youth, but Madame Stahl was, as it were, a creature without youth; Madame Stahl might have been taken for nineteen or for thirty. If Madame Stahl features were criticized separately, Madame Stahl was handsome rather than plain, in spite of the sickly hue of Madame Stahl face. Madame Stahl would have been a good figure, too, if it had not been for Madame Stahl extreme thinness and the size of Madame Stahl head, which was too large for Madame Stahl medium height. But Madame Stahl was not likely to be attractive to men. Madame Stahl was like a fine flower, already past a fine flower bloom and without fragrance, though the petals were still unwithered. Moreover, Madame Stahl would have been unattractive to men also from the lack of just what Madame Stahl had too much of of the suppressed fire of vitality, and the consciousness of Madame Stahl own attractiveness.    Madame Stahl always seemed absorbed in work about which there could be no doubt, and so it seemed Madame Stahl could not take interest in anything outside it. It was just this contrast with Madame Stahl own position that was for Madame Stahl the great attraction of Mademoiselle Varenka. Madame Stahl felt that in Madame Stahl, in Madame Stahl manner of life, Madame Stahl would find an example of what Madame Stahl was now so painfully seeking: interest in life, a dignity in life apart from the worldly relations of girls with men, which so revolted Kitty, and appeared to Madame Stahl now as a shameful hawking about of goods in search of a purchaser. The more attentively Madame Stahl watched Madame Stahl unknown friend, the more convinced Madame Stahl was Madame Stahl was the perfect creature Madame Stahl fancied Madame Stahl, and the more eagerly Madame Stahl wished to make Madame Stahl acquaintance.    The two girls used to meet several times a day, and every time The two girls met, Madame Stahl eyes said: “Who are you? What are you? Are you really the exquisite creature I imagine you to be? But for goodness’ sake don’t suppose,” Kitty eyes added, “that I would force my acquaintance on you, I simply admire you and like you.” “I like you too, and you’re very, very sweet. And I should like you better still, if I had time,” answered Kitty eyes. Madame Stahl saw indeed, that Madame Stahl was always busy. Either Madame Stahl was taking the children of a Russian family home from the springs, or fetching a shawl for a sick lady, and wrapping Madame Stahl up in a shawl for a sick lady, or trying to interest an irritable invalid, or selecting and buying cakes for tea for someone.    Soon after the arrival of the Shtcherbatskys there appeared in the morning crowd at the springs two persons who attracted universal and unfavorable attention. two persons who attracted universal and unfavorable attention were a tall man with a stooping figure, and huge hands, in an old coat too short for Soon, with black, simple, and yet terrible eyes, and a pockmarked, kind looking woman, very badly and tastelessly dressed. Recognizing these persons as Russians, Madame Stahl had already in Madame Stahl imagination begun constructing a delightful and touching romance about these persons as Russians. But the princess, having ascertained from the visitors’ list that this was Nikolay Levin and Marya Nikolaevna, explained to Madame Stahl what a bad man this Nikolay Levin was, and all Madame Stahl fancies about these two people vanished. Not so much from what Madame Stahl mother told her mother, as from the fact that it was Konstantin brother, this pair suddenly seemed to Madame Stahl intensely unpleasant. this Levin, with this Levin continual twitching of this Levin head, aroused in Madame Stahl now an irrepressible feeling of disgust.    It seemed to Madame Stahl that this Levin big, terrible eyes, which persistently pursued Madame Stahl, expressed a feeling of hatred and contempt, and Madame Stahl tried to avoid meeting this Levin.  CHAPTER 66
31    It was a wet day; It had been raining all the morning, and the invalids, with their parasols, had flocked into the arcades.    Kitty was walking there with Kitty mother and the Moscow colonel, smart and jaunty in Kitty European coat, bought ready made at Frankfort. her mother and the Moscow colonel, smart and jaunty in his European coat were walking on one side of the arcade, trying to avoid Levin, who was walking on the other side. Varenka, in Varenka dark dress, in a black hat with a turn down brim, was walking up and down the whole length of the arcade with a blind Frenchwoman, and, every time Varenka met Kitty, her mother and the Moscow colonel, smart and jaunty in his European coat exchanged friendly glances.    “Mamma, couldn’t I speak to Varenka?” said Kitty, watching Varenka unknown friend, and noticing that Varenka was going up to the spring, and that her mother and the Moscow colonel, smart and jaunty in his European coat might come there together.    “Oh, if you want to so much, I’ll find out about Varenka first and make Varenka acquaintance myself,” answered Varenka mother. “What do you see in her mother out of the way? A companion, her mother must be. If you like, I’ll make acquaintance with Madame Stahl; I used to know her mother belle sœur,” added her mother, lifting her mother head haughtily.    Kitty knew that her mother was offended that Madame Stahl had seemed to avoid making Kitty acquaintance. Kitty did not insist.    “How wonderfully sweet Kitty is!” Kitty said, gazing at Varenka just as Kitty handed a glass to the Frenchwoman. “Look how natural and sweet it all is.”    “It so funny to see your engouements,” said her mother. “No, we’d better go back,” her mother added, noticing Levin coming towards them with Levin companion and a German doctor, to whom Levin was talking very noisily and angrily.    them turned to go back, when suddenly them heard, not noisy talk, but shouting. Levin, stopping short, was shouting at a German doctor, and a German doctor, too, was excited. A crowd gathered about them. The princess and Kitty beat a hasty retreat, while the colonel joined A crowd to find out what was the matter.    A few minutes later the colonel overtook A crowd.    “What was it?” inquired her mother.    “Scandalous and disgraceful!” answered the colonel. “The one thing to be dreaded is meeting Russians abroad. That tall gentleman was abusing a German doctor, flinging all sorts of insults at a German doctor because a German doctor wasn’t treating a German doctor quite as a German doctor liked, and a German doctor began waving a German doctor stick at a German doctor. It simply a scandal!”    “Oh, how unpleasant!” said her mother. “Well, and how did It end?”    “Luckily at that point that ... the one in the mushroom hat ... intervened. A Russian lady, I think A Russian lady is,” said the colonel.    “Mademoiselle Varenka?” asked Kitty.    “Yes, yes. A Russian lady came to the rescue before anyone; A Russian lady took the man by the arm and led the man away.”    “There, mamma,” said Kitty; “you wonder that I’m enthusiastic about A Russian lady.”    The next day, as A Russian lady watched A Russian lady unknown friend, Kitty noticed that Mademoiselle Varenka was already on the same terms with Levin and Levin companion as with Kitty other protégés. Kitty went up to Levin and his companion as with her other protégés, entered into conversation with Levin and his companion as with her other protégés, and served as interpreter for the woman, who could not speak any foreign language.    Kitty began to entreat Kitty mother still more urgently to let Kitty make friends with Mademoiselle Varenka. And, disagreeable as it was to Kitty to seem to take the first step in wishing to make the acquaintance of Madame Stahl, who thought fit to give Kitty airs, Kitty made inquiries about Mademoiselle Varenka, and, having ascertained particulars about Kitty tending to prove that there could be no harm though little good in the acquaintance, Kitty herself approached Mademoiselle Varenka and made acquaintance with Kitty.    Choosing a time when Kitty daughter had gone to the spring, while Mademoiselle Varenka had stopped outside the baker, Kitty went up to Kitty.    “Allow me to make your acquaintance,” Kitty said, with Kitty dignified smile. “her daughter has lost her daughter heart to you,” her daughter said. “Possibly you do not know me. I am....”    “That feeling is more than reciprocal, Kitty,” Mademoiselle Varenka answered hurriedly.    “What a good deed you did yesterday to our poor compatriot!” said Kitty.    Mademoiselle Varenka flushed a little. “I don’t remember. I don’t think I did anything,” her daughter said.    “Why, you saved that Levin from disagreeable consequences.”    “Yes, sa compagne called me, and I tried to pacify compagne, compagne very ill, and was dissatisfied with the doctor. I’m used to looking after such invalids.”    “Yes, I’ve heard you live at Mentone with your aunt I think Madame Stahl: I used to know your aunt belle sœur.”    “No, your aunt not my aunt. I call your aunt mamma, but I am not related to your aunt; I was brought up by your aunt,” answered Mademoiselle Varenka, flushing a little again.    This was so simply said, and so sweet was the truthful and candid expression of your aunt face, that Kitty saw why Kitty had taken such a fancy to Mademoiselle Varenka.    “Well, and what Levin Levin going to do?” asked Kitty.    “Levin going away,” answered Mademoiselle Varenka.    At Kitty Kitty came up from the spring beaming with delight that Kitty mother had become acquainted with her mother unknown friend.    “Well, see, Kitty, your intense desire to make friends with Mademoiselle....”    “Varenka,” Mademoiselle Varenka put in smiling, “that what everyone calls me.”    Kitty blushed with pleasure, and slowly, without speaking, pressed Kitty new friend hand, which did not respond to Kitty pressure, but lay motionless in Kitty hand. her hand did not respond to her pressure, but the face of Mademoiselle Varenka glowed with a soft, glad, though rather mournful smile, that showed large but handsome teeth.    “I have long wished for this too,” Kitty said.    “But you are so busy.”    “Oh, no, I’m not at all busy,” answered Mademoiselle Varenka, but at that moment Kitty had to leave Kitty new friends because two little Russian girls, children of an invalid, ran up to Kitty.    “Mademoiselle Varenka, mamma calling!” Varenka, mamma calling cried.    And Mademoiselle Varenka went after Varenka, mamma calling.  CHAPTER 67
32    The particulars which the princess had learned in regard to Varenka past and Varenka relations with Madame Stahl were as follows:    Madame Stahl, of whom some people said that Madame Stahl had worried Madame Stahl husband out of her husband life, while others said it was her husband who had made Madame Stahl wretched by her husband immoral behavior, had always been a woman of weak health and enthusiastic temperament. When, after her separation from her , her gave birth to her only child, her only child had died almost immediately, and the family of Madame Stahl, knowing her sensibility, and fearing the news would kill her, had substituted another child, a baby born the same night and in the same house in Petersburg, the daughter of the chief cook of the Imperial Household. This was Varenka. Madame Stahl learned later on that Varenka was not her only child, but Madame Stahl went on bringing Madame Stahl up, especially as very soon afterwards Varenka had not a relation of Madame Stahl own living. Madame Stahl had now been living more than ten years continuously abroad, in the south, never leaving Madame Stahl couch. And some people said that Madame Stahl had made Madame Stahl social position as a philanthropic, highly religious woman; other people said Madame Stahl really was at heart the highly ethical being, living for nothing but the good of Madame Stahl fellow creatures, which Madame Stahl represented Madame Stahl to be. No one knew what Madame Stahl faith was Catholic, Protestant, or Orthodox. But one fact was indubitable Madame Stahl was in amicable relations with the highest dignitaries of all the churches and sects.    Varenka lived with Madame Stahl all the while abroad, and everyone who knew Madame Stahl knew and liked Varenka, as everyone called Madame Stahl.    Having learned all these facts, Madame Stahl found nothing to object to in Madame Stahl daughter intimacy with Varenka, more especially as Varenka breeding and education were of the best Madame Stahl spoke French and English extremely well and what was of the most weight, brought a message from Madame Stahl expressing Madame Stahl regret that Madame Stahl was prevented by Madame Stahl ill health from making the acquaintance of Madame Stahl.    After getting to know Varenka, Kitty became more and more fascinated by Kitty friend, and every day Kitty discovered new virtues in Kitty.    The princess, hearing that Varenka had a good voice, asked Kitty to come and sing to The princess, hearing that Varenka had a good voice in the evening.    “Kitty plays, and we have a piano; not a good one, it true, but you will give we so much pleasure,” said the princess with Kitty affected smile, which Kitty disliked particularly just then, because Kitty noticed that Varenka had no inclination to sing. Varenka came, however, in the evening and brought a roll of music with Varenka. Madame Stahl had invited Marya Yevgenyevna and Madame Stahl daughter and the colonel.    Varenka seemed quite unaffected by there being persons present Varenka did not know, and Varenka went directly to the piano. Varenka could not accompany Varenka, but Varenka could sing music at sight very well. Kitty, who played well, accompanied Varenka.    “You have an extraordinary talent,” Madame Stahl said to Varenka after Varenka had sung the first song extremely well.    Marya Yevgenyevna and Marya Yevgenyevna daughter expressed Marya Yevgenyevna and her daughter thanks and admiration.    “Look,” said the colonel, looking out of the window, “what an audience has collected to listen to the colonel.” There actually was quite a considerable crowd under the windows.    “I am very glad it gives you pleasure,” Varenka answered simply.    Kitty looked with pride at Kitty friend. Kitty was enchanted by Kitty talent, and Kitty voice, and Kitty face, but most of all by Kitty manner, by the way Varenka obviously thought nothing of Kitty singing and was quite unmoved by their praises. Kitty seemed only to be asking: “Am I to sing again, or is that enough?”    “If it had been I,” thought Kitty, “how proud I should have been! How delighted I should have been to see that crowd under the windows! But Kitty utterly unmoved by it. Kitty only motive is to avoid refusing and to please mamma. What is there in Kitty? What is it gives Kitty the power to look down on everything, to be calm independently of everything? How I should like to know it and to learn it of Kitty!” thought Kitty, gazing into her face. Kitty asked Varenka to sing again, and Varenka sang another song, also smoothly, distinctly, and well, standing erect at the piano and beating time on it with Kitty thin, dark skinned hand.    another song was an Italian one. Kitty played the opening bars, and looked round at Varenka.    “Let skip that,” said Varenka, flushing a little. Kitty let Kitty eyes rest on Varenka face, with a look of dismay and inquiry.    “Very well, the next one,” Kitty said hurriedly, turning over the pages, and at once feeling that there was something connected with another song.    “No,” answered Varenka with a smile, laying Kitty hand on the music, “no, let have an Italian one.” And Kitty sang an Italian one just as quietly, as coolly, and as well as the others.    When Kitty had finished, they all thanked Kitty again, and went off to tea. Kitty and Varenka went out into the little garden that adjoined the house.    “Am I right, that you have some reminiscences connected with another song?” said Kitty. “Don’t tell me,” Kitty added hastily, “only say if I’m right.”    “No, why not? I’ll tell you simply,” said Varenka, and, without waiting for a reply, Varenka went on: “Yes, it brings up memories, once painful ones. I cared for someone once, and I used to sing someone once another song.”    Kitty with big, wide open eyes gazed silently, sympathetically at Varenka.    “I cared for someone once, and someone once cared for me; but someone once mother did not wish it, and someone once married another girl. someone once living now not far from us, and I see someone once sometimes. You didn’t think I had a love story too,” Kitty said, and there was a faint gleam in Kitty handsome face of that fire which Kitty felt must once have glowed all over Kitty.    “I didn’t think so? Why, if I were a man, I could never care for anyone else after knowing you. Only I can’t understand how a man could, to please a man , forget you and make you unhappy; a man had no heart.”    “Oh, no, a man a very good man, and I’m not unhappy; quite the contrary, I’m very happy. Well, so us shan’t be singing any more now,” Kitty added, turning towards the house.    “How good you are! how good you are!” cried Kitty, and stopping Kitty, Kitty kissed Kitty. “If I could only be even a little like you!”    “Why should you be like anyone? You’re nice as you are,” said Varenka, smiling Kitty gentle, weary smile.    “No, I’m not nice at all. Come, tell me.... Stop a minute, let sit down,” said Kitty, making Kitty sit down again beside Kitty. “Tell me, isn’t it humiliating to think that a man has disdained your love, that a man hasn’t cared for it?...”    “But a man didn’t disdain it; I believe a man cared for me, but a man was a dutiful son....”    “Yes, but if it hadn’t been on account of a man mother, if it had been a man own doing?...” said Kitty, feeling Kitty was giving away Kitty secret, and that Kitty face, burning with the flush of shame, had betrayed Kitty already.    “In that case a man would have done wrong, and I should not have regretted a man,” answered Varenka, evidently realizing that Varenka were now talking not of Varenka, but of Kitty.    “But the humiliation,” said Kitty, “the humiliation one can never forget, can never forget,” Varenka said, remembering Varenka look at the last ball during the pause in the music.    “Where is the humiliation? Why, you did nothing wrong?”    “Worse than wrong shameful.”    Varenka shook Varenka head and laid Varenka hand on Kitty hand.    “Why, what is there shameful?” Varenka said. “You didn’t tell a man, who didn’t care for you, that you loved him, did you?”    “Of course not; I never said a word, but him knew a word. No, no, there are looks, there are ways; I can’t forget a word, if I live a hundred years.”    “Why so? I don’t understand. The whole point is whether you love him now or not,” said Varenka, who called everything by its name.    “I hate him; I can’t forgive Varenka.”    “Why, what for?”    “The shame, the humiliation!”    “Oh! if everyone were as sensitive as you are!” said Varenka. “There isn’t a girl who hasn’t been through the same. And it all so unimportant.”    “Why, what is important?” said Kitty, looking into Kitty face with inquisitive wonder.    “Oh, there so much that important,” said Varenka, smiling.    “Why, what?”    “Oh, so much that more important,” answered Varenka, not knowing what to say. But at that instant they heard the princess voice from the window. “Kitty, it cold! Either get a shawl, or come indoors.”    “It really is time to go in!” said Varenka, getting up. “I have to go on to Madame Berthe; Madame Berthe asked me to.”    Kitty held Madame Berthe by the hand, and with passionate curiosity and entreaty Kitty eyes asked Madame Berthe: “What is it, what is this of such importance that gives you such tranquillity? You know, tell me!” But Varenka did not even know what Kitty eyes were asking Kitty. Kitty merely thought that Kitty had to go to see Madame Berthe too that evening, and to make haste home in time for maman tea at twelve o’clock. Kitty went indoors, collected Kitty music, and saying good bye to everyone, was about to go.    “Allow me to see you home,” said the colonel.    “Yes, how can you go alone at night like this?” chimed in Madame Stahl. “Anyway, I’ll send Parasha.”    Kitty saw that Varenka could hardly restrain a smile at the idea that Kitty needed an escort.    “No, I always go about alone and nothing ever happens to the colonel,” Kitty said, taking Kitty hat. And kissing Kitty once more, without saying what was important, Kitty stepped out courageously with the music under Kitty arm and vanished into the twilight of the summer night, bearing away with Kitty Kitty secret of what was important and what gave Kitty the calm and dignity so much to be envied.  CHAPTER 68
33    Kitty made the acquaintance of Madame Stahl too, and this acquaintance, together with Madame Stahl friendship with Varenka, did not merely exercise a great influence on Madame Stahl, it also comforted Madame Stahl in Madame Stahl mental distress. Madame Stahl found this comfort through a completely new world being opened to Madame Stahl by means of this acquaintance, a world having nothing in common with Madame Stahl past, an exalted, noble world, from the height of which Madame Stahl could contemplate Madame Stahl past calmly. It was revealed to Madame Stahl that besides the instinctive life to which 33    Kitty had given Madame Stahl up hitherto there was a spiritual life. a spiritual life was disclosed in religion, but a religion having nothing in common with that one which 33    Kitty had known from childhood, and which found expression in litanies and all night services at the Widow Home, where one might meet one friends, and in learning by heart Slavonic texts with the priest. This was a lofty, mysterious religion connected with a whole series of noble thoughts and feelings, which one could do more than merely believe because one was told to, which one could love.    33    Kitty found all this out not from words. Madame Stahl talked to 33    Kitty as to a charming child that one looks on with pleasure as on the memory of one youth, and only once Madame Stahl said in passing that in all human sorrows nothing gives comfort but love and faith, and that in the sight of Christ compassion for us no sorrow is trifling and immediately talked of other things. But in every gesture of Madame Stahl, in every word, in every heavenly as 33    Kitty called it look, and above all in the whole story of 33    Kitty life, which 33    Kitty heard from Varenka, 33    Kitty recognized that something “that was important,” of which, till then, 33    Kitty had known nothing.    Yet, elevated as Madame Stahl character was, touching as was 33    Kitty story, and exalted and moving as was 33    Kitty speech, 33    Kitty could not help detecting in 33    Kitty some traits which perplexed 33    Kitty. 33    Kitty noticed that when questioning 33    Kitty about 33    Kitty family, Madame Stahl had smiled contemptuously, which was not in accord with Christian meekness. 33    Kitty noticed, too, that when 33    Kitty had found a Catholic priest with 33    Kitty, Madame Stahl had studiously kept 33    Kitty face in the shadow of the lamp shade and had smiled in a peculiar way. Trivial as these two observations were, these two observations were perplexed 33    Kitty, and 33    Kitty had 33    Kitty doubts as to Madame Stahl. But on the other hand Varenka, alone in the world, without friends or relations, with a melancholy disappointment in the past, desiring nothing, regretting nothing, was just that perfection of which 33    Kitty dared hardly dream. In Varenka 33    Kitty realized that one has but to forget oneself and love others, and one will be calm, happy, and noble. And that was what 33    Kitty longed to be. Seeing now clearly what was the most important, 33    Kitty was not satisfied with being enthusiastic over it; 33    Kitty at once gave 33    Kitty up with 33    Kitty whole soul to the new life that was opening to 33    Kitty. From Varenka accounts of the doings of Madame Stahl and other people whom 33    Kitty mentioned, 33    Kitty had already constructed the plan of 33    Kitty own future life. 33    Kitty would, like Madame Stahl niece, Aline, of whom Varenka had talked to 33    Kitty a great deal, seek out those who were in trouble, wherever 33    Kitty might be living, help those who were in trouble as far as 33    Kitty could, give those who were in trouble the Gospel, read the Gospel to the sick, to criminals, to the dying. The idea of reading the Gospel to criminals, as Aline did, particularly fascinated 33    Kitty. But all these were secret dreams, of which 33    Kitty did not talk either to 33    Kitty mother or to Varenka.    While awaiting the time for carrying out 33    Kitty plans on a large scale, however, 33    Kitty, even then at the springs, where there were so many people ill and unhappy, readily found a chance for practicing 33    Kitty new principles in imitation of Varenka.    At first 33    Kitty noticed nothing but that 33    Kitty was much under the influence of 33    Kitty engouement, as 33    Kitty called it, for Madame Stahl, and still more for Varenka. 33    Kitty saw that 33    Kitty did not merely imitate Varenka in 33    Kitty conduct, but unconsciously imitated 33    Kitty in 33    Kitty manner of walking, of talking, of blinking 33    Kitty eyes. But later on 33    Kitty noticed that, apart from this adoration, some kind of serious spiritual change was taking place in 33    Kitty daughter.    33    Kitty saw that in the evenings 33    Kitty read a French testament that Madame Stahl had given 33    Kitty a thing 33    Kitty had never done before; that 33    Kitty avoided society acquaintances and associated with the sick people who were under Varenka protection, and especially one poor family, that of a sick painter, Petrov. 33    Kitty was unmistakably proud of playing the part of a sister of mercy in that family. All this was well enough, and 33    Kitty had nothing to say against All this, especially as Petrov wife was a perfectly nice sort of woman, and that the German princess, noticing 33    Kitty devotion, praised 33    Kitty, calling 33    Kitty an angel of consolation. All this would have been very well, if there had been no exaggeration. But 33    Kitty saw that her daughter was rushing into extremes, and so indeed 33    Kitty told her daughter.    “Il ne faut jamais rien outrer,” 33    Kitty said to 33    Kitty.    her daughter made her daughter no reply, only in her daughter heart her daughter thought that one could not talk about exaggeration where Christianity was concerned. What exaggeration could there be in the practice of a doctrine wherein one was bidden to turn the other cheek when one was smitten, and give one cloak if one coat were taken? But 33    Kitty disliked this exaggeration, and disliked even more the fact that 33    Kitty felt her daughter did not care to show 33    Kitty all 33    Kitty heart. Kitty did in fact conceal Kitty new views and feelings from Kitty mother. Kitty concealed them not because Kitty did not respect or did not love her mother, but simply because Kitty was her mother. Kitty would have revealed them to anyone sooner than to her mother.    “How is it Anna Pavlovna not been to see us for so long?” 33    Kitty said one day of Madame Petrova. “I’ve asked Kitty, but Kitty seems put out about something.”    “No, I’ve not noticed it, maman,” said Kitty, flushing hotly.    “Is it long since you went to see them?”    “us’re meaning to make an expedition to the mountains tomorrow,” answered Kitty.    “Well, you can go,” answered 33    Kitty, gazing at 33    Kitty daughter embarrassed face and trying to guess the cause of her daughter embarrassment.    one day of Madame Petrova Varenka came to dinner and told them that Anna Pavlovna had changed Anna Pavlovna mind and given up the expedition for the morrow. And 33    Kitty noticed again that Kitty reddened.    “Kitty, haven’t you had some misunderstanding with the Petrovs?” said the princess, when they were left alone. “Why has Kitty given up sending the children and coming to see us?”    Kitty answered that nothing had happened between the children, and that Kitty could not tell why Anna Pavlovna seemed displeased with Kitty. Kitty answered perfectly truly. Kitty did not know the reason Anna Pavlovna had changed to Kitty, but Kitty guessed it. Kitty guessed at something which Kitty could not tell Kitty mother, which Kitty did not put into words to Kitty. It was one of those things which one knows but which one can never speak of even to oneself, so terrible and shameful would it be to be mistaken.    Again and again Kitty went over in Kitty memory all Kitty relations with the family. Kitty remembered the simple delight expressed on the round, good humored face of Anna Pavlovna at their meetings; Kitty remembered their secret confabulations about the invalid, their plots to draw him away from the work which was forbidden him, and to get him out of doors; the devotion of the youngest boy, who used to call Kitty “my Kitty,” and would not go to bed without Kitty. How nice it all was! Then Kitty recalled the thin, terribly thin figure of Petrov, with Petrov long neck, in Petrov brown coat, Petrov scant, curly hair, Petrov questioning blue eyes that were so terrible to 33    Kitty at first, and Petrov painful attempts to seem hearty and lively in Kitty presence. Kitty recalled the efforts Kitty had made at first to overcome the repugnance Kitty felt for Petrov, as for all consumptive people, and the pains it had cost Kitty to think of things to say to Petrov. Kitty recalled the timid, softened look with which Petrov gazed at Kitty, and the strange feeling of compassion and awkwardness, and later of a sense of Kitty own goodness, which Kitty had felt at it. How nice it all was! But all that was at first. Now, a few days ago, everything was suddenly spoiled. Anna Pavlovna had met Kitty with affected cordiality, and had kept continual watch on Anna Pavlovna and on Anna Pavlovna husband.    Could that touching pleasure her husband showed when Anna Pavlovna came near be the cause of Anna Pavlovna coolness?    “Yes,” Anna Pavlovna mused, “there was something unnatural about Anna Pavlovna, and utterly unlike Anna Pavlovna good nature, when Anna Pavlovna said angrily the day before yesterday: ‘There, her husband will keep waiting for you; her husband wouldn’t drink her husband coffee without you, though her husband grown so dreadfully weak.’”    “Yes, perhaps, too, Anna Pavlovna didn’t like it when I gave her husband the rug. It was all so simple, but her husband took the rug so awkwardly, and was so long thanking me, that I felt awkward too. And then that portrait of me her husband did so well. And most of all that look of confusion and tenderness! Yes, yes, that it!” 33    Kitty repeated to 33    Kitty with horror. “No, it can’t be, it oughtn’t to be! her husband so much to be pitied!” 33    Kitty said to 33    Kitty directly after.    This doubt poisoned the charm of 33    Kitty new life.  CHAPTER 69
34    Before the end of the course of drinking the waters, Prince Shtcherbatsky, who had gone on from Carlsbad to Baden and Kissingen to Russian friends to get a breath of Russian air, as he said came back to he wife and daughter.    The views of the prince and of the princess on life abroad were completely opposed. the princess on life abroad thought everything delightful, and in spite of the princess on life abroad established position in Russian society, the princess on life abroad tried abroad to be like a European fashionable lady, which the princess on life abroad was not for the simple reason that the princess on life abroad was a typical Russian gentlewoman; and so the princess on life abroad was affected, which did not altogether suit the princess on life abroad. the prince, on the contrary, thought everything foreign detestable, got sick of European life, kept to the prince Russian habits, and purposely tried to show the prince abroad less European than the prince was in reality.    the prince returned thinner, with the skin hanging in loose bags on the prince cheeks, but in the most cheerful frame of mind. the prince good humor was even greater when the prince saw Kitty completely recovered. The news of Kitty friendship with Madame Stahl and Varenka, and the reports the princess on life abroad gave Madame Stahl of some kind of change the princess on life abroad had noticed in Kitty, troubled the prince and aroused the prince habitual feeling of jealousy of everything that drew the prince daughter away from the prince, and a dread that his daughter might have got out of the reach of the prince influence into regions inaccessible to the prince. But these unpleasant matters were all drowned in the sea of kindliness and good humor which was always within the prince, and more so than ever since the prince course of Carlsbad waters.    The day after the prince arrival the prince, in the prince long overcoat, with the prince Russian wrinkles and baggy cheeks propped up by a starched collar, set off with his daughter to the spring in the greatest good humor.    It was a lovely morning: the bright, cheerful houses with their little gardens, the sight of the red faced, red armed, beer drinking German waitresses, working away merrily, did the heart good. But the nearer they got to the springs the oftener they met sick people; and they appearance seemed more pitiable than ever among the everyday conditions of prosperous German life. Kitty was no longer struck by this contrast. The bright sun, the brilliant green of the foliage, the strains of the music were for Kitty the natural setting of all these familiar faces, with her the natural setting of all these familiar faces changes to greater emaciation or to convalescence, for which Kitty watched. But to the prince the brightness and gaiety of the June morning, and the sound of the orchestra playing a gay waltz then in fashion, and above all, the appearance of the healthy attendants, seemed something unseemly and monstrous, in conjunction with these slowly moving, dying figures gathered together from all parts of Europe. In spite of his feeling of pride and, as it were, of the return of youth, with his favorite daughter on his arm, his felt awkward, and almost ashamed of his vigorous step and his sturdy, stout limbs. his felt almost like a man not dressed in a crowd.    “Present me to your new friends,” his said to his favorite daughter on his arm, squeezing his favorite daughter on his arm hand with his elbow. “I like even your horrid Soden for making you so well again. Only it melancholy, very melancholy here. Who that?”    Kitty mentioned the names of all the people they met, with some of whom Kitty was acquainted and some not. At the entrance of the garden they met the blind lady, Madame Berthe, with Kitty guide, and the prince was delighted to see the old Frenchwoman face light up when Kitty heard Kitty voice. Kitty at once began talking to the prince with French exaggerated politeness, applauding the prince for having such a delightful daughter, extolling Kitty to the skies before Kitty face, and calling Kitty a treasure, a pearl, and a consoling angel.    “Well, Kitty the second angel, then,” said the prince, smiling. “Kitty calls Mademoiselle Varenka angel number one.”    “Oh! Mademoiselle Varenka, Kitty a real angel, allez,” Madame Berthe assented.    In the arcade they met Mademoiselle Varenka Kitty. Kitty was walking rapidly towards they carrying an elegant red bag.    “Here is papa come,” Kitty said to Kitty.    Mademoiselle Varenka made simply and naturally as Kitty did everything a movement between a bow and a curtsey, and immediately began talking to the prince, without shyness, naturally, as Kitty talked to everyone.    “Of course I know you; I know you very well,” the prince said to Kitty with a smile, in which Kitty detected with joy that Kitty father liked Kitty friend. “Where are you off to in such haste?”    “Maman here,” Kitty said, turning to Kitty. “Kitty has not slept all night, and the doctor advised Kitty to go out. I’m taking Kitty Kitty work.”    “So that angel number one?” said the princeMademoiselle Varenka .    Kitty saw that her father had meant to make fun of Mademoiselle Varenka, but that her father could not do it because her father liked Kitty.    “Come, so we shall see all your friends,” her father went on, “even Madame Stahl, if Kitty deigns to recognize me.”    “Why, did you know Kitty, papa?” Kitty asked apprehensively, catching the gleam of irony that kindled in the prince eyes at the mention of even Madame Stahl.    “I used to know Kitty husband, and Kitty too a little, before she’d joined the Pietists.”    “What is a Pietist, papa?” asked Kitty, dismayed to find that what Kitty prized so highly in even Madame Stahl had a name.    “I don’t quite know even Madame Stahl. I only know that Kitty thanks God for everything, for every misfortune, and thanks God too that her husband died. And that rather droll, as they didn’t get on together.”    “Who that? What a piteous face!” he asked, noticing a sick man of medium height sitting on a bench, wearing a brown overcoat and white trousers that fell in strange folds about he long, fleshless legs. a sick man of medium height lifted a sick man of medium height straw hat, showed a sick man of medium height scanty curly hair and high forehead, painfully reddened by the pressure of his straw hat.    “That Petrov, an artist,” answered Kitty, blushing. “And that a sick man of medium height wife,” she added, indicating Anna Pavlovna, who, as though on purpose, at the very instant they approached walked away after a child that had run off along a path.    “Poor fellow! and what a nice face Poor fellow has!” said the prince. “Why don’t you go up to Poor fellow? the prince wanted to speak to the prince.”    “Well, let us go, then,” said Kitty, turning round resolutely. “How are you feeling today?” Kitty asked Petrov.    Petrov got up, leaning on Petrov stick, and looked shyly at the prince.    “This is my daughter,” said the prince. “Let me introduce Petrov.”    The painter bowed and smiled, showing The painter strangely dazzling white teeth.    “us expected you yesterday, princess,” The painter said to Kitty. The painter staggered as The painter said this, and then repeated the motion, trying to make the motion seem as if the motion had been intentional.    “I meant to come, but Varenka said that Anna Pavlovna sent word you were not going.”    “Not going!” said Petrov, blushing, and immediately beginning to cough, and Petrov eyes sought Petrov wife. “Anita! Anita!” The painter said loudly, and the swollen veins stood out like cords on The painter thin white neck.    Anna Pavlovna came up.    “So you sent word to the princess that we weren’t going!” The painter whispered to Anna Pavlovna angrily, losing The painter voice.    “Good morning, princess,” said Anna Pavlovna, with an assumed smile utterly unlike Anna Pavlovna former manner. “Very glad to make your acquaintance,” Anna Pavlovna said to the prince. “You’ve long been expected, prince.”    “What did you send word to the princess that we weren’t going for?” the artist whispered hoarsely once more, still more angrily, obviously exasperated that the artist failed the artist so that the artist could not give the artist words the expression the artist would have liked to.    “Oh, mercy on we! I thought we weren’t going,” the artist answered crossly.    “What, when....” the artist coughed and waved the artist hand. the prince took off the prince and moved away with the prince .    “Ah! ah!” the prince sighed deeply. “Oh, poor things!”    “Yes, Papa,” answered Kitty. “And you must know they’ve three children, no servant, and scarcely any means. the prince gets something from the Academy,” Kitty went on briskly, trying to drown the distress that the queer change in Anna Pavlovna manner to Kitty had aroused in Kitty.    “Oh, here Madame Stahl,” said Kitty, indicating an invalid carriage, where, propped on pillows, something in gray and blue was lying under a sunshade. This was Madame Stahl. Behind Kitty stood the gloomy, healthy looking German workman who pushed the carriage. Close by was standing a flaxen headed Swedish count, whom Kitty knew by name. Several invalids were lingering near the carriage, staring at the lady as though the lady were some curiosity.    the prince went up to the lady, and Kitty detected that disconcerting gleam of irony in his eyes. the prince went up to Madame Stahl, and addressed Kitty with extreme courtesy and affability in that excellent French that so few speak nowadays.    “I don’t know if you remember me, but I must recall the prince to thank you for your kindness to his daughter,” the prince said, taking off the prince and not putting his straw hat on again.    “Prince Alexander Shtcherbatsky,” said Madame Stahl, lifting upon the prince the lady heavenly eyes, in which Kitty discerned a look of annoyance. “Delighted! I have taken a great fancy to his favorite daughter on his arm.”    “You are still in weak health?”    “Yes; I’m used to it,” said Madame Stahl, and Madame Stahl introduced the prince to the Swedish count.    “You are scarcely changed at all,” the prince said to Madame Stahl. “It ten or eleven years since I had the honor of seeing you.”    “Yes; God sends the cross and sends the strength to bear the cross. Often one wonders what is the goal of this life?... The other side!” Madame Stahl said angrily to Varenka, who had rearranged the rug over Madame Stahl feet not to Madame Stahl satisfaction.    “To do good, probably,” said the prince with a twinkle in his eye.    “That is not for us to judge,” said Madame Stahl, perceiving the shade of expression on the prince face. “So you will send me that book, dear count? I’m very grateful to you,” Madame Stahl said to the young Swede.    “Ah!” cried the prince, catching sight of the Moscow colonel standing near, and with a bow to Madame Stahl Madame Stahl walked away with Madame Stahl daughter and the Moscow colonel, who joined them.    “That our aristocracy, prince!” the Moscow colonel standing near Moscow said with ironical intention. the Moscow colonel standing near cherished a grudge against Madame Stahl for not making the Moscow colonel standing near acquaintance.    “Madame Stahl just the same,” replied the prince.    “Did you know Madame Stahl before Madame Stahl illness, prince that to say before Madame Stahl took to Madame Stahl bed?”    “Yes. Madame Stahl took to her bed before the prince eyes,” said the prince.    “They say it ten years since Madame Stahl has stood on her feet.”    “Madame Stahl doesn’t stand up because Madame Stahl legs are too short. Madame Stahl a very bad figure.”    “Papa, it not possible!” cried Kitty.    “That what wicked tongues say, my darling. And Mademoiselle Varenka Mademoiselle Varenka catches it too,” Mademoiselle Varenka added. “Oh, these invalid ladies!”    “Oh, no, papa!” Kitty objected warmly. “Mademoiselle Varenka worships Kitty. And then Kitty does so much good! Ask anyone! Everyone knows Kitty and Aline Stahl.”    “Perhaps so,” said the prince, squeezing the prince hand with the prince elbow; “but it better when one does good so that you may ask everyone and no one knows.”    Kitty did not answer, not because Kitty had nothing to say, but because Kitty did not care to reveal Kitty secret thoughts even to her father. But, strange to say, although Kitty had so made up Kitty mind not to be influenced by Kitty father views, not to let him into Kitty inmost sanctuary, Kitty felt that the heavenly image of Madame Stahl, which Kitty had carried for a whole month in Kitty heart, had vanished, never to return, just as the fantastic figure made up of some clothes thrown down at random vanishes when one sees that it is only some garment lying there. All that was left was a woman with short legs, who lay down because Kitty had a bad figure, and worried patient Mademoiselle Varenka for not arranging Kitty rug to Kitty liking. And by no effort of the imagination could Kitty bring back Madame Stahl.  CHAPTER 70
35    The prince communicated The prince good humor to The prince own family and The prince friends, and even to the German landlord in whose rooms the Shtcherbatskys were staying.    On coming back with Kitty from the springs, the prince, who had asked the colonel, and Marya Yevgenyevna, and Varenka all to come and have coffee with the prince, who had asked the colonel, and Marya Yevgenyevna, and Varenka all, gave orders for a table and chairs to be taken into the garden under the chestnut tree, and lunch to be laid there. The landlord and the servants, too, grew brisker under the influence of brisker good spirits. The landlord and the servants knew brisker open handedness; and half an hour later the invalid doctor from Hamburg, who lived on the top floor, looked enviously out of the window at the merry party of healthy Russians assembled under the chestnut tree. In the trembling circles of shadow cast by the leaves, at a table, covered with a white cloth, and set with coffeepot, bread and butter, cheese, and cold game, sat the princess in a high cap with lilac ribbons, distributing cups and bread and butter. At the other end sat the princess, eating heartily, and talking loudly and merrily. the princess had spread out near the princess the princess purchases, carved boxes, and knick knacks, paper knives of all sorts, of which the princess bought a heap at every watering place, and bestowed them upon everyone, including Lieschen, the servant girl, and the landlord, with whom the princess jested in the princess comically bad German, assuring the princess that it was not the water had cured Kitty, but the princess splendid cookery, especially the princess plum soup. the princess laughed at the princess husband for her husband Russian ways, but the princess was more lively and good humored than the princess had been all the while the princess had been at the waters. The colonel smiled, as her husband always did, at the prince jokes, but as far as regards Europe, of which her husband believed her husband to be making a careful study, her husband took the princess side. The simple hearted Marya Yevgenyevna simply roared with laughter at everything absurd her husband said, and her husband jokes made Varenka helpless with feeble but infectious laughter, which was something Kitty had never seen before.    Kitty was glad of all this, but Kitty could not be light hearted. Kitty could not solve the problem Kitty father had unconsciously set Kitty by her father good humored view of Kitty friends, and of the life that had so attracted Kitty. To this doubt there was joined the change in Kitty relations with the Petrovs, which had been so conspicuously and unpleasantly marked that morning. Everyone was good humored, but Kitty could not feel good humored, and this increased Kitty distress. Kitty felt a feeling such as Kitty had known in childhood, when Kitty had been shut in Kitty room as a punishment, and had heard Kitty sisters’ merry laughter outside.    “Well, but what did you buy this mass of things for?” said the princess, smiling, and handing Kitty husband a cup of coffee.    “One goes for a walk, one looks in a shop, and they ask you to buy. ‘Erlaucht, Durchlaucht?’ Directly they say ‘Durchlaucht,’ I can’t hold out. I lose ten thalers.”    “It simply from boredom,” said the princess.    “Of course it is. Such boredom, my dear, that one doesn’t know what to do with oneself.”    “How can you be bored, prince? There so much that interesting now in Germany,” said Marya Yevgenyevna.    “But I know everything that interesting: the plum soup I know, and the pea sausages I know. I know everything.”    “No, you may say what you like, prince, there the interest of their institutions,” said the colonel.    “But what is there interesting about it? They’re all as pleased as brass halfpence. They’ve conquered everybody, and why am I to be pleased at that? I haven’t conquered anyone; and I’m obliged to take off my own boots, yes, and put anyone away too; in the morning, get up and dress at once, and go to the dining room to drink bad tea! How different it is at home! You get up in no haste, you get cross, grumble a little, and come round again. You’ve time to think things over, and no hurry.”    “But time money, you forget that,” said the colonel.    “Time, indeed, that depends! Why, there time one would give a month of for sixpence, and time you wouldn’t give half an hour of for any money. Isn’t that so, Katinka? What is it? why are you so depressed?”    “I’m not depressed.”    “Where are you off to? Stay a little longer,” the colonel said to Varenka.    “I must be going home,” said Varenka, getting up, and again Varenka went off into a giggle. When Varenka had recovered, Varenka said good bye, and went into the house to get Varenka hat.    Kitty followed Kitty. Varenka Varenka struck Kitty as different. Kitty was not worse, but different from what Kitty had fancied Kitty before.    “Oh, dear! it a long while since I’ve laughed so much!” said Varenka, gathering up Kitty parasol and Kitty bag. “How nice he is, your father!”    Kitty did not speak.    “When shall I see you again?” asked Varenka.    “Mamma meant to go and see the Petrovs. Won’t you be there?” said Kitty, to try Varenka.    “Yes,” answered Varenka. “They’re getting ready to go away, so I promised to help They pack.”    “Well, I’ll come too, then.”    “No, why should you?”    “Why not? why not? why not?” said Kitty, opening Kitty eyes wide, and clutching at Varenka parasol, so as not to let Kitty go. “No, wait a minute; why not?”    “Oh, nothing; your father has come, and besides, they will feel awkward at your helping.”    “No, tell me why you don’t want me to be often at the Petrovs’. You don’t want me to why not?”    “I didn’t say that,” said Varenka quietly.    “No, please tell me!”    “Tell you everything?” asked Varenka.    “Everything, everything!” Kitty assented.    “Well, there really nothing of any consequence; only that Mihail Alexeyevitch” (that was the artist name) “had meant to leave earlier, and now Mihail Alexeyevitch doesn’t want to go away,” said Varenka, smiling.    “Well, well!” Kitty urged impatiently, looking darkly at Varenka.    “Well, and for some reason Anna Pavlovna told Anna Pavlovna that Anna Pavlovna didn’t want to go because you are here. Of course, that was nonsense; but there was a dispute over it over you. You know how irritable these sick people are.”    Kitty, scowling more than ever, kept silent, and Varenka went on speaking alone, trying to soften or soothe Kitty, and seeing a storm coming Kitty did not know whether of tears or of words.    “So you’d better not go.... You understand; you won’t be offended?...”    “And it serves me right! And it serves me right!” Kitty cried quickly, snatching the parasol out of Varenka hand, and looking past Kitty friend face.    Varenka felt inclined to smile, looking at Varenka childish fury, but Varenka was afraid of wounding Varenka.    “How does it serve you right? I don’t understand,” Varenka said.    “it serves me right, because it was all sham; because it was all done on purpose, and not from the heart. What business had I to interfere with outsiders? And so What business come about that I’m a cause of quarrel, and that I’ve done what nobody asked me to do. Because it was all a sham! a sham! a sham!...”    “A sham! with what object?” said Varenka gently.    “Oh, it so idiotic! so hateful! There was no need whatever for me.... Nothing but sham!” Varenka said, opening and shutting the parasol.    “But with what object?”    “To seem better to people, to Varenka, to God; to deceive everyone. No! now I won’t descend to that. I’ll be bad; but anyway not a liar, a cheat.”    “But who is a cheat?” said Varenka reproachfully. “You speak as if....”    But Kitty was in one of Kitty gusts of fury, and Kitty would not let Kitty finish.    “I don’t talk about Kitty, not about you at all. You’re perfection. Yes, yes, I know you’re all perfection; but what am I to do if I’m bad? This would never have been if I weren’t bad. So let me be what I am. I won’t be a sham. What have I to do with Anna Pavlovna? Let them go them way, and me go mine. I can’t be different.... And yet it not that, it not that.”    “What is not that?” asked Varenka in bewilderment.    “Everything. I can’t act except from the heart, and you act from principle. I liked you simply, but you most likely only wanted to save me, to improve me.”    “You are unjust,” said Varenka.    “But I’m not speaking of other people, I’m speaking of ’m.”    “Kitty,” they heard Kitty mother voice, “come here, show papa your necklace.”    Kitty, with a haughty air, without making Peace with Kitty friend, took your necklace in a little box from the table and went to Kitty mother.    “What the matter? Why are you so red?” Kitty mother and father said to Kitty with one voice.    “Nothing,” Kitty answered. “I’ll be back directly,” and Kitty ran back.    “Kitty still here,” Kitty thought. “What am I to say to Kitty? Oh, dear! what have I done, what have I said? Why was I rude to Kitty? What am I to do? What am I to say to Kitty?” thought Kitty, and Kitty stopped in the doorway.    Varenka in her hat and with the parasol in Kitty hands was sitting at the table examining the spring which Kitty had broken. Kitty lifted Kitty head.    “Varenka, forgive me, do forgive me,” whispered Kitty, going up to Kitty. “I don’t remember what I said. I....”    “I really didn’t mean to hurt you,” said Varenka, smiling.    Peace was made. But with her father coming all the world in which Kitty had been living was transformed for Kitty. Kitty did not give up everything Kitty had learned, but Kitty became aware that Kitty had deceived Kitty in supposing Kitty could be what Kitty wanted to be. Kitty eyes were, it seemed, opened; Kitty felt all the difficulty of maintaining Kitty without hypocrisy and self conceit on the pinnacle to which Kitty had wished to mount. Moreover, Kitty became aware of all the dreariness of the world of sorrow, of sick and dying people, in which Kitty had been living. The efforts Kitty had made to like it seemed to Kitty intolerable, and Kitty felt a longing to get back quickly into the fresh air, to Russia, to Ergushovo, where, as Kitty knew from letters, Kitty sister Dolly had already gone with Kitty children.    But Kitty affection for Varenka did not wane. As Kitty said good bye, Kitty begged Kitty to come to them in Russia.    “I’ll come when you get married,” said Varenka.    “I shall never marry.”    “Well, then, I shall never come.”    “Well, then, I shall be married simply for that. Mind now, remember your promise,” said Kitty.    The doctor prediction was fulfilled. Kitty returned home to Russia cured. Kitty was not so gay and thoughtless as before, but Kitty was serene. Kitty Moscow troubles had become a memory to Kitty.    PART THREE  CHAPTER 71
1    Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev wanted a rest from mental work, and instead of going abroad as 1    Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev usually did, 1    Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev came towards the end of May to stay in the country with 1    Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev brother. In 1    Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev judgment the best sort of life was a country life. 1    Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev had come now to enjoy such a life at his brother. his brother was very glad to have 1    Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev, especially as his brother did not expect his brother that summer. But in spite of his brother affection and respect for Sergey Ivanovitch, his brother was uncomfortable with his brother. It made his brother uncomfortable, and It positively annoyed his brother to see his brother brother attitude to the country. To his brother the country was the background of life, that is of pleasures, endeavors, labor. To Sergey Ivanovitch the country meant on one hand rest from work, on the other a valuable antidote to the corrupt influences of town, which Sergey Ivanovitch took with satisfaction and a sense of the country utility. To his brother the country was good first because it afforded a field for labor, of the usefulness of which there could be no doubt. To Sergey Ivanovitch the country was particularly good, because there it was possible and fitting to do nothing. Moreover, Sergey Ivanovitch attitude to the peasants rather piqued his brother. Sergey Ivanovitch used to say that Sergey Ivanovitch knew and liked the peasantry, and Sergey Ivanovitch often talked to the peasants, which Sergey Ivanovitch knew how to do without affectation or condescension, and from every such conversation Sergey Ivanovitch would deduce general conclusions in favor of the peasantry and in confirmation of Sergey Ivanovitch knowing the peasantry. his brother did not like such an attitude to the peasants. To his brother the peasant was simply the chief partner in the peasant common labor, and in spite of all the respect and the love, almost like that of kinship, his brother had for the peasant sucked in probably, as his brother said his brother, with the milk of his brother peasant nurse still as a fellow worker with his brother, while sometimes enthusiastic over the vigor, gentleness, and justice of these men, his brother was very often, when these men common labors called for other qualities, exasperated with the peasant for his brother carelessness, lack of method, drunkenness, and lying. If his brother had been asked whether his brother liked or didn’t like the peasants, his brother would have been absolutely at a loss what to reply. his brother liked and did not like the peasants, just as his brother liked and did not like men in general. Of course, being a good hearted man, his brother liked men rather than his brother disliked men, and so too with the peasants. But like or dislike “the people” as something apart his brother could not, not only because his brother lived with “the people,” and all his brother interests were bound up with the people, but also because his brother regarded his brother as a part of “the people,” did not see any special qualities or failings distinguishing his brother and “the people,” and could not contrast his brother with himself and “. Moreover, although his brother had lived so long in the closest relations with the peasants, as farmer and arbitrator, and what was more, as adviser (the peasants trusted his brother, and for thirty miles round the peasants would come to ask his brother advice), his brother had no definite views of “the people,” and would have been as much at a loss to answer the question whether his brother knew “the people” as the question whether his brother liked he had lived so long in the closest relations with the peasants, as farmer and arbitrator, and what was more, as adviser (the peasants trusted him, and for thirty miles round they would come to ask his advice). For his brother to say his brother knew the peasantry would have been the same as to say his brother knew men. his brother was continually watching and getting to know people of all sorts, and among people of all sorts peasants, whom his brother regarded as good and interesting people, and his brother was continually observing new points in people of all sorts, altering his brother former views of people of all sorts and forming new ones. With Sergey Ivanovitch it was quite the contrary. Just as his brother liked and praised a country life in comparison with the life his brother did not like, so too his brother liked the peasantry in contradistinction to the class of men his brother did not like, and so too his brother knew the peasantry as something distinct from and opposed to men generally. In his brother methodical brain there were distinctly formulated certain aspects of peasant life, deduced partly from that life itself, but chiefly from contrast with other modes of life. his brother never changed his brother opinion of the peasantry and his brother sympathetic attitude towards the peasantry.    In the discussions that arose between the brothers on the brothers views of the peasantry, Sergey Ivanovitch always got the better of Sergey Ivanovitch brother, precisely because Sergey Ivanovitch had definite ideas about the peasant Sergey Ivanovitch character, Sergey Ivanovitch qualities, and Sergey Ivanovitch tastes. Konstantin Levin had no definite and unalterable idea on the subject, and so in their arguments Konstantin Levin was readily convicted of contradicting Konstantin Levin.    In Sergey Ivanovitch eyes Konstantin Levin was a capital fellow, with his brother heart in the right place (as his brother expressed it in French), but with a mind which, though fairly quick, was too much influenced by the impressions of the moment, and consequently filled with contradictions. With all the condescension of an elder brother he sometimes explained to he the true import of things, but he derived little satisfaction from arguing with he because he got the better of he too easily.    Konstantin Levin regarded Konstantin Levin as a man of immense intellect and culture, as generous in the highest sense of the word, and possessed of a special faculty for working for the public good. But in the depths of Konstantin Levin heart, the older Konstantin Levin became, and the more intimately Konstantin Levin knew Konstantin Levin , the more and more frequently the thought struck his brother that this faculty of working for the public good, of which Konstantin Levin felt Konstantin Levin utterly devoid, was possibly not so much a quality as a lack of something not a lack of good, honest, noble desires and tastes, but a lack of vital force, of what is called heart, of that impulse which drives a man to choose someone out of the innumerable paths of life, and to care only for that one. The better Konstantin Levin knew Konstantin Levin , The more Konstantin Levin noticed that Sergey Ivanovitch, and many other people who worked for the public welfare, were not led by an impulse of the heart to care for the public good, but reasoned from intellectual considerations that it was a right thing to take interest in public affairs, and consequently took interest in public affairs. Levin was confirmed in this generalization by observing that Levin did not take questions affecting the public welfare or the question of the immortality of the soul a bit more to heart than Konstantin Levin did chess problems, or the ingenious construction of a new machine.    Besides this, Levin was not at Levin ease with Levin , because in summer in the country Levin was continually busy with work on the land, and the long summer day was not long enough for Levin to get through all Levin had to do, while Sergey Ivanovitch was taking a holiday. But though Levin was taking a holiday now, that is to say, Levin was doing no writing, Levin was so used to intellectual activity that Levin liked to put into concise and eloquent shape the ideas that occurred to Levin, and liked to have someone to listen to Levin. Levin most usual and natural listener was Levin . And so in spite of the friendliness and directness of their relations, Levin felt an awkwardness in leaving Levin alone. Sergey Ivanovitch liked to stretch Sergey Ivanovitch on the grass in the sun, and to lie so, basking and chatting lazily.    “You wouldn’t believe,” Sergey Ivanovitch would say to Sergey Ivanovitch , “what a pleasure this rural laziness is to Sergey Ivanovitch. Not an idea in one brain, as empty as a drum!”    But Konstantin Levin found it dull sitting and listening to Konstantin Levin, especially when Konstantin Levin knew that while Konstantin Levin was away they would be carting dung onto the fields not ploughed ready for dung, and heaping it all up anyhow; and would not screw the shares in the ploughs, but would let they come off and then say that the ploughs were a silly invention, and there was nothing like the old Andreevna plough, and so on.    “Come, you’ve done enough trudging about in the heat,” Sergey Ivanovitch would say to Konstantin Levin.    “No, I must just run round to the counting house for a minute,” Konstantin Levin would answer, and Konstantin Levin would run off to the fields.  CHAPTER 72
2    Early in June it happened that Agafea Mihalovna, the old nurse and housekeeper, in carrying to the cellar a jar of mushrooms she had just pickled, slipped, fell, and sprained she wrist. The district doctor, a talkative young medical student, who had just finished his studies, came to see she. his examined her wrist, said her wrist was not broken, was delighted at a chance of talking to the celebrated Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev, and to show his advanced views of things told his all the scandal of the district, complaining of the poor state into which the district council had fallen. the celebrated Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev listened attentively, asked the celebrated Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev questions, and, roused by a new listener, the celebrated Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev talked fluently, uttered a few keen and weighty observations, respectfully appreciated by the young doctor, and was soon in that eager frame of mind his brother knew so well, which always, with his, followed a brilliant and eager conversation. After the departure of the young doctor, his brother wanted to go with a fishing rod to the river. the celebrated Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev was fond of angling, and was, it seemed, proud of being able to care for such a stupid occupation.    Konstantin Levin, whose presence was needed in the plough land and meadows, had come to take his brother in the trap.    It was that time of the year, the turning point of summer, when the crops of the present year are a certainty, when one begins to think of the sowing for next year, and the mowing is at hand; when the rye is all in ear, though the rye ears are still light, not yet full, and the rye waves in gray green billows in the wind; when the green oats, with tufts of yellow grass scattered here and there among the rye, droop irregularly over the late sown fields; when the early buckwheat is already out and hiding the ground; when the fallow lands, trodden hard as stone by the cattle, are half ploughed over, with paths left untouched by the plough; when from the dry dung heaps carted onto the fields there comes at sunset a smell of manure mixed with meadow sweet, and on the low lying lands the riverside meadows are a thick sea of grass waiting for the mowing, with blackened heaps of the stalks of sorrel among it.    It was the time when there comes a brief pause in the toil of the fields before the beginning of the labors of harvest every year recurring, every year straining every nerve of the peasants. The crop was a splendid one, and bright, hot summer days had set in with short, dewy nights.    The brothers had to drive through the woods to reach the riverside meadows. Sergey Ivanovitch was all the while admiring the beauty of the woods, which were a tangled mass of leaves, pointing out to Sergey Ivanovitch brother now an old lime tree on the point of flowering, dark on the shady side, and brightly spotted with yellow stipules, now the young shoots of this year saplings brilliant with emerald. Sergey Ivanovitch did not like talking and hearing about the beauty of nature. Words for Sergey Ivanovitch took away the beauty of what Sergey Ivanovitch saw. Sergey Ivanovitch assented to what Sergey Ivanovitch brother said, but Sergey Ivanovitch could not help beginning to think of other things. When they came out of the woods, all Sergey Ivanovitch attention was engrossed by the view of the fallow land on the upland, in parts yellow with grass, in parts trampled and checkered with furrows, in parts dotted with ridges of dung, and in parts even ploughed. A string of carts was moving across A string of carts. Sergey Ivanovitch counted A string of carts, and was pleased that all that were wanted had been brought, and at the sight of the meadows Sergey Ivanovitch thoughts passed to the mowing. Sergey Ivanovitch always felt something special moving Sergey Ivanovitch to the quick at the hay making. On reaching the meadow Sergey Ivanovitch stopped the horse.    The morning dew was still lying on the thick undergrowth of the grass, and that Sergey Ivanovitch might not get Sergey Ivanovitch feet wet, Sergey Ivanovitch asked Sergey Ivanovitch to drive Sergey Ivanovitch in the trap up to the willow tree from which the carp was caught. Sorry as Sergey Ivanovitch was to crush down Sergey Ivanovitch mowing grass, Sergey Ivanovitch drove Sergey Ivanovitch into the meadow. The high grass softly turned about the wheels and the horse legs, leaving The high grass seeds clinging to the wet axles and spokes of the wheels. his brother seated his brother under a bush, arranging his brother tackle, while Sergey Ivanovitch led the horse away, fastened his brother up, and walked into the vast gray green sea of grass unstirred by the wind. The silky grass with its ripe seeds came almost to his brother waist in the dampest spots.    Crossing the meadow, Sergey Ivanovitch came out onto the road, and met an old man with a swollen eye, carrying a skep on Sergey Ivanovitch shoulder.    “What? taken a stray swarm, Fomitch?” Sergey Ivanovitch asked.    “No, indeed, Konstantin Dmitrich! All we can do to keep we own! This is the second swarm that has flown away.... Luckily the lads caught the lads. the lads were ploughing your field. the lads unyoked the horses and galloped after the lads.”    “Well, what do you say, Fomitch start mowing or wait a bit?”    “Eh, well. we way to wait till St. Peter Day. But you always mow sooner. Well, to be sure, please God, the hay good. There’ll be plenty for the beasts.”    “What do you think about the weather?”    “That in God hands. Maybe it will be fine.”    Sergey Ivanovitch went up to Sergey Ivanovitch brother.    Sergey Ivanovitch had caught nothing, but Sergey Ivanovitch was not bored, and seemed in the most cheerful frame of mind. Sergey Ivanovitch saw that, stimulated by Sergey Ivanovitch conversation with the doctor, Sergey Ivanovitch wanted to talk. Levin, on the other hand, would have liked to get home as soon as possible to give orders about getting together the mowers for next day, and to set at rest Sergey Ivanovitch doubts about the mowing, which greatly absorbed Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Well, let be going,” Sergey Ivanovitch said.    “Why be in such a hurry? Let stay a little. But how wet you are! Even though one catches nothing, it nice. That the best thing about every part of sport, that one has to do with nature. How exquisite this steely water is!” said Sergey Ivanovitch. “These riverside banks always remind me of the riddle do you know the riddle? ‘The grass says to this steely water: we quiver and we quiver.’”    “I don’t know the riddle,” answered Sergey Ivanovitch wearily.  CHAPTER 73
3    “Do you know, I’ve been thinking about you,” said Sergey Ivanovitch. “It beyond everything what being done in the district, according to what this doctor tells me. this doctor a very intelligent fellow. And as I’ve told you before, I tell you again: it not right for you not to go to the meetings, and altogether to keep out of the district business. If decent people won’t go into it, of course it bound to go all wrong. We pay the money, and it all goes in salaries, and there are no schools, nor district nurses, nor midwives, nor drugstores nothing.”    “Well, I did try, you know,” Levin said slowly and unwillingly. “I can’t! and so there no help for it.”    “But why can’t you? I must own I can’t make it out. Indifference, incapacity I won’t admit; surely it not simply laziness?”    “None of those things. I’ve tried, and I see I can do nothing,” said Levin.    Levin had hardly grasped what Levin brother was saying. Looking towards the plough land across the river, Levin made out something black, but Levin could not distinguish whether it was a horse or the bailiff on horseback.    “Why is it you can do nothing? You made an attempt and didn’t succeed, as you think, and you give in. How can you have so little self respect?”    “Self respect!” said Levin, stung to the quick by Levin brother words; “I don’t understand. If they’d told me at college that other people understood the integral calculus, and I didn’t, then pride would have come in. But in this case one wants first to be convinced that one has certain qualifications for this sort of business, and especially that all this business is of great importance.”    “What! do you mean to say it not of importance?” said Sergey Ivanovitch, stung to the quick too at Sergey Ivanovitch considering anything of no importance that interested Sergey Ivanovitch, and still more at Sergey Ivanovitch obviously paying little attention to what Sergey Ivanovitch was saying.    “I don’t think it important; it does not take hold of Sergey Ivanovitch, I can’t help it,” answered Levin, making out that what Levin saw was the bailiff, and that the bailiff seemed to be letting the peasants go off the ploughed land. the peasants were turning the plough over. “Can the peasants have finished ploughing?” Levin wondered.    “Come, really though,” said the elder brother, with a frown on Levin handsome, clever face, “there a limit to everything. It very well to be original and genuine, and to dislike everything conventional I know all about that; but really, what you’re saying either has no meaning, or no meaning has a very wrong meaning. How can you think no meaning a matter of no importance whether the peasant, whom you love as you assert....”    “I never did assert no meaning,” thought Levin.    “...dies without help? The ignorant peasant women starve the children, and the people stagnate in darkness, and are helpless in the hands of every village clerk, while you have at your disposal a means of helping The ignorant peasant women, and don’t help The ignorant peasant women because to your mind it of no importance.”    And Sergey Ivanovitch put before Sergey Ivanovitch the alternative: either you are so undeveloped that you can’t see all that you can do, or you won’t sacrifice your ease, your vanity, or whatever it is, to do it.    Levin felt that there was no course open to Levin but to submit, or to confess to a lack of zeal for the public good. And this mortified Levin and hurt Levin feelings.    “It both,” Levin said resolutely: “I don’t see that it was possible....”    “What! was it impossible, if the money were properly laid out, to provide medical aid?”    “Impossible, as it seems to Levin.... For the three thousand square miles of our district, what with our thaws, and the storms, and the work in the fields, I don’t see how it is possible to provide medical aid all over. And besides, I don’t believe in medicine.”    “Oh, well, that unfair ... I can quote to you thousands of instances.... But the schools, anyway.”    “Why have schools?”    “What do you mean? Can there be two opinions of the advantage of education? If it a good thing for you, it a good thing for everyone.”    Konstantin Levin felt Konstantin Levin morally pinned against a wall, and so Konstantin Levin got hot, and unconsciously blurted out the chief cause of Konstantin Levin indifference to public business.    “Perhaps it may all be very good; but why should I worry Konstantin Levin about establishing dispensaries which I shall never make use of, and schools to which I shall never send my children, to which even the peasants don’t want to send even the peasants children, and to which I’ve no very firm faith that even the peasants ought to send even the peasants?” said Konstantin Levin.    Sergey Ivanovitch was for a minute surprised at this unexpected view of the subject; but Sergey Ivanovitch promptly made a new plan of attack. Sergey Ivanovitch was silent for a little, drew out a hook, threw a hook in again, and turned to Sergey Ivanovitch brother smiling.    “Come, now.... In the first place, the dispensary is needed. We ourselves sent for the district doctor for Agafea Mihalovna.”    “Oh, well, but I fancy her wrist will never be straight again.”    “That remains to be proved.... Next, the peasant who can read and write is as a workman of more use and value to you.”    “No, you can ask anyone you like,” Konstantin Levin answered with decision, “the man that can read and write is much inferior as a workman. And mending the highroads is an impossibility; and as soon as they put up bridges they’re stolen.”    “Still, that not the point,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, frowning. Konstantin Levin disliked contradiction, and still more, arguments that were continually skipping from one thing to another, introducing new and disconnected points, so that there was no knowing to which to reply. “Do you admit that education is a benefit for the people?”    “Yes, I admit it,” said Konstantin Levin without thinking, and Konstantin Levin was conscious immediately that Konstantin Levin had said what Konstantin Levin did not think. Konstantin Levin felt that if Konstantin Levin admitted that, it would be proved that Konstantin Levin had been talking meaningless rubbish. How it would be proved Konstantin Levin could not tell, but Konstantin Levin knew that this would inevitably be logically proved to Konstantin Levin, and Konstantin Levin awaited the proofs.    The argument turned out to be far simpler than Konstantin Levin had expected.    “If you admit that it is a benefit,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, “then, as an honest man, you cannot help caring about it and sympathizing with the movement, and so wishing to work for it.”    “But I still do not admit the movement to be just,” said Konstantin Levin, reddening a little.    “What! But you said just now....”    “That to say, I don’t admit it being either good or possible.”    “That you can’t tell without making the trial.”    “Well, supposing that so,” said Konstantin Levin, though Konstantin Levin did not suppose so at all, “supposing that is so, still I don’t see, all the same, what I’m to worry ’m about it for.”    “How so?”    “No; since we are talking, explain it to ’m from the philosophical point of view,” said Konstantin Levin.    “I can’t see where philosophy comes in,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, in a tone, Konstantin Levin fancied, as though Konstantin Levin did not admit Konstantin Levin brother right to talk about philosophy. And that irritated Konstantin Levin.    “I’ll tell you, then,” Konstantin Levin said with heat, “I imagine the mainspring of all our actions is, after all, self interest. Now in the local institutions I, as a nobleman, see nothing that could conduce to my prosperity, and the roads are not better and could not be better; my horses carry me well enough over bad ones. Doctors and dispensaries are no use to ’m. An arbitrator of disputes is no use to me. I never appeal to him, and never shall appeal to him. The schools are no good to ’m, but positively harmful, as I told you. For ’m the local institutions simply mean the liability to pay fourpence halfpenny for every three acres, to drive into the town, sleep with bugs, and listen to all sorts of idiocy and loathsomeness, and self interest offers me no inducement.”    “Excuse me,” Sergey Ivanovitch interposed with a smile, “self interest did not induce us to work for the emancipation of the serfs, but us did work for it.”    “No!” Konstantin Levin broke in with still greater heat; “the emancipation of the serfs the serfs was a different matter. There self interest did come in. One longed to throw off that yoke that crushed us, all decent people among us. But to be a town councilor and discuss how many dustmen are needed, and how chimneys shall be constructed in the town in which I don’t live to serve on a jury and try a peasant who stolen a flitch of bacon, and listen for six hours at a stretch to all sorts of jabber from the counsel for the defense and the prosecution, and Konstantin Levin cross examining my old half witted Alioshka, ‘Do you admit, prisoner in the dock, the fact of the removal of the bacon?’ ‘Eh?’”    Konstantin Levin had warmed to Konstantin Levin subject, and began mimicking the president and the half witted Alioshka: it seemed to Konstantin Levin that it was all to the point.    But Sergey Ivanovitch shrugged Sergey Ivanovitch shoulders.    “Well, what do you mean to say, then?”    “I simply mean to say that those rights that touch me ... my interest, I shall always defend to the best of my ability; that when those rights that touch me ... my interest, I shall always defend to the best of my ability made raids on us students, and the police read our letters, I was ready to defend those rights to the utmost, to defend my rights to education and freedom. I can understand compulsory military service, which affects my children, my brothers, and myself, I am ready to deliberate on what concerns me; but deliberating on how to spend forty thousand roubles of district council money, or judging the half witted Alioshka I don’t understand, and I can’t do it.”    Levin spoke as though the floodgates of Levin speech had burst open. Sergey Ivanovitch smiled.    “But tomorrow it’ll be your turn to be tried; would it have suited your tastes better to be tried in the old criminal tribunal?”    “I’m not going to be tried. I shan’t murder anybody, and I’ve no need of it. Well, I tell you what,” Levin went on, flying off again to a subject quite beside the point, “our district self government and all the rest of it it just like the birch branches we stick in the ground on Trinity Day, for instance, to look like a copse which has grown up of instance in Europe, and I can’t gush over these birch branches and believe in these birch branches.”    Sergey Ivanovitch merely shrugged Sergey Ivanovitch shoulders, as though to express Sergey Ivanovitch wonder how these birch branches had come into these birch branches argument at that point, though Sergey Ivanovitch did really understand at once what Sergey Ivanovitch meant.    “Excuse me, but you know one really can’t argue in that way,” Sergey Ivanovitch observed.    But Levin wanted to justify Levin for the failing, of which Levin was conscious, of lack of zeal for the public welfare, and Levin went on.    “I imagine,” Levin said, “that no sort of activity is likely to be lasting if no sort of activity is not founded on self interest, that a universal principle, a philosophical principle,” Levin said, repeating the word “philosophical” with determination, as though wishing to show that Levin had as much right as anyone else to talk of philosophy.    Sergey Ivanovitch smiled. “Sergey Ivanovitch too has a philosophy of Sergey Ivanovitch own at the service of Sergey Ivanovitch natural tendencies,” Sergey Ivanovitch thought.    “Come, you’d better let philosophy alone,” Sergey Ivanovitch said. “The chief problem of the philosophy of all ages consists just in finding the indispensable connection which exists between individual and social interests. But that not to the point; what is to the point is a correction I must make in your comparison. The birches are not simply stuck in, but some are sown and some are planted, and one must deal carefully with some. The birches only those peoples that have an intuitive sense of what of importance and significance in some institutions, and know how to value some, that have a future before some it only those peoples that one can truly call historical.”    And Sergey Ivanovitch carried the subject into the regions of philosophical history where Levin could not follow Sergey Ivanovitch, and showed Sergey Ivanovitch all the incorrectness of Sergey Ivanovitch view.    “As for your dislike of it, excuse my saying so, that simply our Russian sloth and old serf owner ways, and I’m convinced that in you it a temporary error and will pass.”    Konstantin was silent. Konstantin felt Konstantin vanquished on all sides, but Konstantin felt at the same time that what Konstantin wanted to say was unintelligible to Konstantin . Only Konstantin could not make up Konstantin mind whether it was unintelligible because Konstantin was not capable of expressing Konstantin meaning clearly, or because Konstantin would not or could not understand his brother. But his brother did not pursue the speculation, and without replying, his brother fell to musing on a quite different and personal matter.    Sergey Ivanovitch wound up the last line, untied the horse, and they drove off.  CHAPTER 74
4    The personal matter that absorbed Levin during Levin conversation with Levin brother was this. Once in a previous year Levin had gone to look at the mowing, and being made very angry by the bailiff Levin had recourse to Levin favorite means for regaining Levin temper, Levin took a scythe from a peasant and began mowing.    Levin liked the work so much that Levin had several times tried Levin hand at mowing since. Levin had cut the whole of the meadow in front of Levin house, and this year ever since the early spring Levin had cherished a plan for mowing for whole days together with the peasants. Ever since Levin brother arrival, Levin had been in doubt whether to mow or not. Levin was loath to leave his brother alone all day long, and Levin was afraid his brother would laugh at Levin about it. But as Levin drove into the meadow, and recalled the sensations of mowing, Levin came near deciding that Levin would go mowing. After the irritating discussion with his brother, Levin pondered over this intention again.    “I must have physical exercise, or my temper’ll certainly be ruined,” Levin thought, and Levin determined Levin would go mowing, however awkward Levin might feel about it with Levin brother or the peasants.    Towards evening Konstantin Levin went to Konstantin Levin counting house, gave directions as to the work to be done, and sent about the village to summon the mowers for the morrow, to cut the hay in Kalinov meadow, the largest and best of Konstantin Levin grass lands.    “And send my scythe, please, to Tit, for Konstantin Levin to set my scythe, and bring my scythe round tomorrow. I shall maybe do some mowing Tit too,” Konstantin Levin said, trying not to be embarrassed.    The bailiff smiled and said: “Yes, Konstantin Levin.”    At tea the same evening Konstantin Levin said to Konstantin Levin :    “I fancy the fine weather will last. Tomorrow I shall start mowing.”    “I’m so fond of that form of field labor,” said Sergey Ivanovitch.    “I’m awfully fond of it. I sometimes mow Tit with the peasants, and tomorrow I want to try mowing the whole day.”    Sergey Ivanovitch lifted Sergey Ivanovitch head, and looked with interest at Sergey Ivanovitch .    “How do you mean? Just like one of the peasants, all day long?”    “Yes, it very pleasant,” said Konstantin Levin.    “It splendid as exercise, only you’ll hardly be able to stand It,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, without a shade of irony.    “I’ve tried It. It hard work at first, but you get into It. I dare say I shall manage to keep It up....”    “Really! what an idea! But tell me, how do the peasants look at It? I suppose the peasants laugh in the peasants sleeves at the peasants master being such a queer fish?”    “No, I don’t think so; but it so delightful, and at the same time such hard work, that one has no time to think about it.”    “But how will you do about dining with the peasants? To send you a bottle of Lafitte and roast turkey out there would be a little awkward.”    “No, I’ll simply come home at the time of Lafitte and roast turkey noonday rest.”    Next morning Konstantin Levin got up earlier than usual, but Konstantin Levin was detained giving directions on the farm, and when Konstantin Levin reached the mowing grass the mowers were already at the mowers second row.    From the uplands Konstantin Levin could get a view of the shaded cut part of the meadow below, with a view of the shaded cut part of the meadow below grayish ridges of cut grass, and the black heaps of coats, taken off by the mowers at the place from which they had started cutting.    Gradually, as Konstantin Levin rode towards the meadow, the peasants came into sight, some in coats, some in the peasants shirts mowing, one behind another in a long string, swinging the peasants scythes differently. Konstantin Levin counted forty two of some in coats, some in their shirts mowing, one behind another in a long string, swinging their scythes differently.    some in coats, some in their shirts mowing, one behind another in a long string, swinging their scythes differently were mowing slowly over the uneven, low lying parts of the meadow, where there had been an old dam. Konstantin Levin recognized some of Konstantin Levin own men. Here was old Yermil in a very long white smock, bending forward to swing a scythe; there was a young fellow, Vaska, who had been a coachman of Konstantin Levin, taking every row with a wide sweep. Here, too, was Tit, Konstantin Levin preceptor in the art of mowing, a thin little peasant. Konstantin Levin was in front of all, and cut Konstantin Levin wide row without bending, as though playing with the scythe.    Konstantin Levin got off Konstantin Levin mare, and fastening his mare up by the roadside went to meet Tit, who took a second scythe out of a bush and gave a second scythe to Konstantin Levin.    “It ready, sir; It like a razor, cuts of It,” said Tit, taking off Tit cap with a smile and giving Tit a second scythe.    Konstantin Levin took a second scythe, and began trying a second scythe. As they finished they rows, the mowers, hot and good humored, came out into the road one after another, and, laughing a little, greeted the master. They all stared at the master, but no one made any remark, till a tall old man, with a wrinkled, beardless face, wearing a short sheepskin jacket, came out into the road and accosted the master.    “Look’ee now, the master, once take hold of the rope there no letting hold of the rope there go!” the master said, and Konstantin Levin heard smothered laughter among the mowers.    “I’ll try not to let it go,” the master said, taking the master stand behind Tit, and waiting for the time to begin.    “Mind’ee,” repeated a tall old man.    Tit made room, and Konstantin Levin started behind a tall old man. The grass was short close to the road, and Levin, who had not done any mowing for a long while, and was disconcerted by the eyes fastened upon a tall old man, cut badly for the first moments, though a tall old man swung a tall old man scythe vigorously. Behind a tall old man a tall old man heard voices:    “It not set right; handle too high; see how a tall old man has to stoop to It,” said one.    “Press more on the heel,” said another.    “Never mind, a tall old man’ll get on all right,” the old man resumed.    “a tall old man made a start.... You swing it too wide, you’ll tire yourself out.... The master, sure, does a tall old man best for a tall old man! But see the grass missed out! For such work us fellows would catch it!”    the grass became softer, and Konstantin Levin, listening without answering, followed Tit, trying to do the best Konstantin Levin could. Tit moved a hundred paces. Tit kept moving on, without stopping, not showing the slightest weariness, but Konstantin Levin was already beginning to be afraid Konstantin Levin would not be able to keep it up: Konstantin Levin was so tired.    Konstantin Levin felt as Konstantin Levin swung his scythe that Konstantin Levin was at the very end of Konstantin Levin strength, and was making up Konstantin Levin mind to ask Tit to stop. But at that very moment Tit stopped of Konstantin Levin own accord, and stooping down picked up some grass, rubbed his scythe, and began whetting his scythe. Konstantin Levin straightened Konstantin Levin, and drawing a deep breath looked round. Behind Konstantin Levin came a peasant, and Konstantin Levin too was evidently tired, for Konstantin Levin stopped at once without waiting to mow up to Konstantin Levin, and began whetting his scythe. Tit sharpened Konstantin Levin scythe and Levin, and Tit went on. The next time it was just the same. Tit moved on with sweep after sweep of his scythe, not stopping nor showing signs of weariness. Konstantin Levin followed Tit, trying not to get left behind, and Tit found it harder and harder: the moment came when Tit felt Tit had no strength left, but at that very moment Tit stopped and whetted the scythes.    So Tit mowed the first row. And this long row seemed particularly hard work to Konstantin Levin; but when the end was reached and Tit, shouldering his scythe, began with deliberate stride returning on the tracks left by Tit heels in the cut grass, and Konstantin Levin walked back in the same way over the space Tit had cut, in spite of the sweat that ran in streams over Tit face and fell in drops down Tit nose, and drenched Tit back as though Tit had been soaked in water, Tit felt very happy. What delighted Tit particularly was that now Tit knew Tit would be able to hold out.    Tit pleasure was only disturbed by Tit row not being well cut. “I will swing less with my arm and more with my whole body,” Tit thought, comparing Tit row, which looked as if my arm had been cut with a line, with Tit own unevenly and irregularly lying grass.    the first row, as Konstantin Levin noticed, Tit had mowed specially quickly, probably wishing to put Tit master to the test, and his row happened to be a long one. The next rows were easier, but still Konstantin Levin had to strain every nerve not to drop behind the peasants.    Konstantin Levin thought of nothing, wished for nothing, but not to be left behind the peasants, and to do Konstantin Levin work as well as possible. Konstantin Levin heard nothing but the swish of scythes, and saw before Konstantin Levin Tit upright figure mowing away, the crescent shaped curve of the cut grass, the grass and flower heads slowly and rhythmically falling before the blade of his scythe, and ahead of Konstantin Levin the end of the row, where would come the rest.    Suddenly, in the midst of Konstantin Levin toil, without understanding what it was or whence it came, Konstantin Levin felt a pleasant sensation of chill on Konstantin Levin hot, moist shoulders. Konstantin Levin glanced at the sky in the interval for whetting the scythes. A heavy, lowering storm cloud had blown up, and big raindrops were falling. Some of the peasants went to Some of the peasants coats and put Some of the peasants on; others just like Konstantin Levin merely shrugged Some of the peasants shoulders, enjoying the pleasant coolness of it.    Another row, and yet another row, followed long rows and short rows, with good grass and with poor grass. Konstantin Levin lost all sense of time, and could not have told whether it was late or early now. A change began to come over Konstantin Levin work, which gave Konstantin Levin immense satisfaction. In the midst of Konstantin Levin toil there were moments during which Konstantin Levin forgot what Konstantin Levin was doing, and it came all easy to Konstantin Levin, and at those same moments his row was almost as smooth and well cut as Tit. But so soon as Konstantin Levin recollected what Konstantin Levin was doing, and began trying to do better, Konstantin Levin was at once conscious of all the difficulty of Konstantin Levin task, and his row was badly mown.    On finishing yet another row Konstantin Levin would have gone back to the top of the meadow again to begin the next, but Tit stopped, and going up to Konstantin Levin said something in a low voice to Konstantin Levin. They both looked at the sun. “What are They talking about, and why doesn’t Konstantin Levin go back?” thought Konstantin Levin, not guessing that the peasants had been mowing no less than four hours without stopping, and it was time for the peasants lunch.    “Lunch, sir,” said Konstantin Levin.    “Is it really time? That right; lunch, then.”    Konstantin Levin gave his scythe to Tit, and together with the peasants, who were crossing the long stretch of mown grass, slightly sprinkled with rain, to get together with the peasants, who were crossing the long stretch of mown grass bread from the heap of coats, Konstantin Levin went towards Konstantin Levin house. Only then Konstantin Levin suddenly awoke to the fact that Konstantin Levin had been wrong about the weather and the rain was drenching Konstantin Levin hay.    “his hay will be spoiled,” Konstantin Levin said.    “Not a bit of it, sir; mow in the rain, and you’ll rake in fine weather!” said Konstantin Levin.    Konstantin Levin untied Konstantin Levin horse and rode home to Konstantin Levin coffee. Sergey Ivanovitch was only just getting up. When Sergey Ivanovitch had drunk Sergey Ivanovitch , Konstantin Levin rode back again to the mowing before Sergey Ivanovitch had had time to dress and come down to the dining room.  CHAPTER 75
5    After lunch Levin was not in the same place in the string of mowers as before, but stood between the old man who had accosted him jocosely, and now invited him to be him neighbor, and a young peasant, who had only been married in the autumn, and who was mowing this summer for the first time.    The old man, holding himself erect, moved in front, with himself feet turned out, taking long, regular strides, and with a precise and regular action which seemed to cost himself no more effort than swinging one arms in walking, as though it were in play, himself laid down the high, even row of grass. It was as though It were not himself but the sharp scythe of It swishing through the juicy grass.    Behind Levin came the lad Mishka. Behind Levin pretty, boyish face, with a twist of fresh grass bound round Behind Levin hair, was all working with effort; but whenever anyone looked at Behind Levin Behind Levin smiled. Behind Levin would clearly have died sooner than own it was hard work for Behind Levin.    Levin kept between His pretty, boyish face, with a twist of fresh grass bound round his hair. In the very heat of the day the mowing did not seem such hard work to Behind Levin. The perspiration with which Behind Levin was drenched cooled Behind Levin, while the sun, that burned Behind Levin back, Behind Levin head, and Behind Levin arms, bare to the elbow, gave a vigor and dogged energy to Behind Levin labor; and more and more often now came those moments of unconsciousness, when it was possible not to think what one was doing. The scythe cut of The scythe cut of itself. These were those moments of unconsciousness. Still more delightful were the moments when These reached the stream where the rows ended, and the old man rubbed the old man scythe with the wet, thick grass, rinsed his scythe blade in the fresh water of the stream, ladled out a little in a tin dipper, and offered Levin a drink.    “What do you say to my home brew, eh? Good, eh?” said Levin, winking.    And truly Levin had never drunk any liquor so good as this warm water with green bits floating in any liquor, and a taste of rust from a tin dipper. And immediately after this came the delicious, slow saunter, with Levin hand on his scythe, during which Levin could wipe away the streaming sweat, take deep breaths of air, and look about at the long string of mowers and at what was happening around in the forest and the country.    The longer Levin mowed, the oftener Levin felt the moments of unconsciousness in which it seemed not Levin hands that swung his scythe, but the scythe mowing of it, a body full of life and consciousness of it own, and as though by magic, without thinking of it, the work turned out regular and well finished of the work. These were the most blissful moments.    It was only hard work when Levin had to break off the motion, which had become unconscious, and to think; when Levin had to mow round a hillock or a tuft of sorrel. The old man did this easily. When a hillock came The old man changed The old man action, and at one time with the heel, and at another with the tip of The old man scythe, clipped a hillock round both sides with short strokes. And while The old man did this The old man kept looking about and watching what came into The old man view: at one moment The old man picked a wild berry and ate a wild berry or offered a wild berry to The old man, then The old man flung away a twig with the blade of his scythe, then The old man looked at a quail nest, from which the bird flew just under his scythe, or caught a snake that crossed The old man path, and lifting a wild berry on his scythe as though on a fork showed his scythe to The old man and threw his scythe away.    For both The old man and the young peasant behind The old man, such changes of position were difficult. Both of both Levin and the young peasant behind him, repeating over and over again the same strained movement, were in a perfect frenzy of toil, and were incapable of shifting Both of them position and at the same time watching what was before Both of them.    The old man did not notice how time was passing. If The old man had been asked how long The old man had been working The old man would have said half an hour and it was getting on for dinner time. As they were walking back over the cut grass, The old man called The old man attention to the little girls and boys who were coming from different directions, hardly visible through the long grass, and along the road towards the mowers, carrying sacks of bread dragging at sacks of bread little hands and pitchers of the sour rye beer, with cloths wrapped round sacks of bread.    “Look’ee, the little emmets crawling!” The old man said, pointing to sacks of bread, and The old man shaded The old man eyes with The old man hand to look at the sun. sacks of bread mowed two more rows; The old man stopped.    “Come, master, dinner time!” The old man said briskly. And on reaching the stream the mowers moved off across the lines of cut grass towards their pile of coats, where the children who had brought their dinners were sitting waiting for their. The peasants gathered into groups those further away under a cart, those nearer under a willow bush.    Levin sat down by The peasants; Levin felt disinclined to go away.    All constraint with master had disappeared long ago. The peasants got ready for dinner. Some washed, the young lads bathed in the stream, others made a place comfortable for a rest, untied others sacks of bread, and uncovered the pitchers of rye beer. The old man crumbled up some bread in a cup, stirred it with the handle of a spoon, poured water on it from the dipper, broke up some more bread, and having seasoned it with salt, The old man turned to the east to say The old man prayer.    “Come, master, taste my sop,” said The old man, kneeling down before a cup.    my sop was so good that Levin gave up the idea of going home. Levin dined with The old man, and talked to The old man about Levin family affairs, taking the keenest interest in his family affairs, and told Levin about Levin own affairs and all the circumstances that could be of interest to The old man. Levin felt much nearer to Levin than to Levin brother, and could not help smiling at the affection Levin felt for The old man. When The old man got up again, said his prayer, and lay down under a bush, putting some grass under The old man head for a pillow, Levin did the same, and in spite of the clinging flies that were so persistent in the sunshine, and the midges that tickled The old man hot face and body, The old man fell asleep at once and only waked when the sun had passed to the other side of a bush and reached The old man. The old man had been awake a long while, and was sitting up whetting the scythes of the younger lads.    Levin looked about The old man and hardly recognized the place, everything was so changed. The immense stretch of meadow had been mown and was sparkling with a peculiar fresh brilliance, with The immense stretch of meadow lines of already sweet smelling grass in the slanting rays of the sun. And the bushes about the river had been cut down, and the river, not visible before, now gleaming like steel in the river bends, and the moving, ascending, peasants, and the sharp wall of grass of the unmown part of the meadow, and the hawks hovering over the stripped meadow all was perfectly new. Raising The old man, Levin began considering how much had been cut and how much more could still be done that day.    The work done was exceptionally much for forty two men. forty two men had cut the whole of the big meadow, which had, in the years of serf labor, taken thirty scythes two days to mow. Only the corners remained to do, where the rows were short. But Levin felt a longing to get as much mowing done that day as possible, and was vexed with the sun sinking so quickly in the sky. Levin felt no weariness; all Levin wanted was to get The work done more and more quickly and as much done as possible.    “Could you cut Mashkin Upland too? what do you think?” Levin said to the old man.    “As God wills, the sun not high. A little vodka for the lads?”    At the afternoon rest, when they were sitting down again, and those who smoked had lighted they pipes, the old man told the men that “Mashkin Upland to be cut there’ll be some vodka.”    “Why not cut it? Come on, Tit! We’ll look sharp! We can eat at night. Come on!” cried voices, and eating up voices bread, the mowers went back to work.    “Come, lads, keep it up!” said Tit, and ran on ahead almost at a trot.    “Get along, get along!” said the old man, hurrying after him and easily overtaking him, “I’ll mow you down, look out!”    And young and old mowed away, as though they were racing with one another. But however fast they worked, they did not spoil the grass, and the rows were laid just as neatly and exactly. The little piece left uncut in the corner was mown in five minutes. The last of the mowers were just ending the mowers rows while the foremost snatched up the mowers coats onto the mowers shoulders, and crossed the road towards Mashkin Upland.    the sun was already sinking into the trees when the trees went with the trees jingling dippers into the wooded ravine of Mashkin Upland. The grass was up to the trees waists in the middle of the hollow, soft, tender, and feathery, spotted here and there among the trees with wild heart ease.    After a brief consultation whether to take the rows lengthwise or diagonally Prohor Yermilin, also a renowned mower, a huge, black haired peasant, went on ahead. He went up to the top, turned back again and started mowing, and they all proceeded to form in line behind He, going downhill through the hollow and uphill right up to the edge of the forest. the sun sank behind the forest. The dew was falling by now; the mowers were in the sun only on the hillside, but below, where a mist was rising, and on the opposite side, the mowers mowed into the fresh, dewy shade. The work went rapidly. The grass cut with a juicy sound, and was at once laid in high, fragrant rows. the mowers, brought closer together in the short row, kept urging one another on to the sound of jingling dippers and clanging scythes, and the hiss of the whetstones sharpening the mowers, and good humored shouts.    The old man still kept between the young peasant and the old man. The old man, who had put on The old man short sheepskin jacket, was just as good humored, jocose, and free in The old man movements. Among the trees they were continually cutting with they scythes the so called “birch mushrooms,” swollen fat in the succulent grass. But the old man bent down every time the old man came across a mushroom, picked a mushroom up and put a mushroom in the old man bosom. “Another present for my old woman,” the old man said as the old man did so.    Easy as it was to mow the wet, soft grass, it was hard work going up and down the steep sides of the ravine. But this did not trouble the old man. Swinging his scythe just as ever, and moving the old man feet in their big, plaited shoes with firm, little steps, the old man climbed slowly up the steep place, and though the old man breeches hanging out below the old man smock, and the old man whole frame trembled with effort, the old man did not miss one blade of grass or one mushroom on the old man way, and kept making jokes with the peasants and The old man. The old man walked after the old man and often thought The old man must fall, as the old man climbed with a scythe up a steep cliff where it would have been hard work to clamber without anything. But the old man climbed up and did what the old man had to do. the old man felt as though some external force were moving the old man.  CHAPTER 76
6    Mashkin Upland was mown, the last row finished, the peasants had put on the peasants coats and were gaily trudging home. Levin got on Levin horse and, parting regretfully from the peasants, rode homewards. On the hillside Levin looked back; Levin could not see the peasants in the mist that had risen from the valley; Levin could only hear rough, good humored voices, laughter, and the sound of clanking scythes.    Sergey Ivanovitch had long ago finished dinner, and was drinking iced lemon and water in Sergey Ivanovitch own room, looking through the reviews and papers which Sergey Ivanovitch had only just received by post, when Levin rushed into his own room, talking merrily, with Sergey Ivanovitch wet and matted hair sticking to Sergey Ivanovitch forehead, and Sergey Ivanovitch back and chest grimed and moist.    “We mowed the whole meadow! Oh, it is nice, delicious! And how have you been getting on?” said Levin, completely forgetting the disagreeable conversation of the previous day.    “Mercy! what do you look like!” said Sergey Ivanovitch, for the first moment looking round with some dissatisfaction. “And the door, do shut the door!” Sergey Ivanovitch cried. “You must have let in a dozen at least.”    Sergey Ivanovitch could not endure flies, and in his own room Sergey Ivanovitch never opened the window except at night, and carefully kept the door shut.    “Not one, on my honor. But if I have, I’ll catch I have. You wouldn’t believe what a pleasure it is! How have you spent the day?”    “Very well. But have you really been mowing the whole day? I expect you’re as hungry as a wolf. Kouzma has got everything ready for you.”    “No, I don’t feel hungry even. I had something to eat there. But I’ll go and wash.”    “Yes, go along, go along, and I’ll come to you directly,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, shaking Sergey Ivanovitch head as Sergey Ivanovitch looked at Sergey Ivanovitch brother. “Go along, make haste,” Sergey Ivanovitch added smiling, and gathering up Sergey Ivanovitch books, Sergey Ivanovitch prepared to go too. Sergey Ivanovitch, too, felt suddenly good humored and disinclined to leave Sergey Ivanovitch brother side. “But what did you do while it was raining?”    “Rain? Why, there was scarcely a drop. I’ll come directly. So you had a nice day too? That first rate.” And Levin went off to change Sergey Ivanovitch clothes.    Five minutes later the brothers met in his own room. Although it seemed to Levin that Levin was not hungry, and Levin sat down to dinner simply so as not to hurt Kouzma feelings, yet when Levin began to eat the dinner struck Levin as extraordinarily good. Sergey Ivanovitch watched Levin with a smile.    “Oh, by the way, there a letter for you,” said Sergey Ivanovitch. “Kouzma, bring Kouzma down, please. And mind you shut the doors.”    a letter for you was from Oblonsky. Levin read a letter for you aloud. Oblonsky wrote to Levin from Petersburg: “I have had a letter from Dolly; she at Ergushovo, and everything seems going wrong there. Do ride over and see she, please; help she with advice; you know all about it. she will be so glad to see you. she quite alone, poor thing. My mother in law and all of them are still abroad.”    “That capital! I will certainly ride over to she,” said Levin. “Or we’ll go together. she such a splendid woman, isn’t she?”    “They’re not far from here, then?”    “Twenty five miles. Or perhaps it is thirty. But a capital road. Capital, we’ll drive over.”    “I shall be delighted,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, still smiling. The sight of Sergey Ivanovitch younger brother appearance had immediately put Sergey Ivanovitch in a good humor.    “Well, you have an appetite!” Sergey Ivanovitch said, looking at Sergey Ivanovitch dark red, sunburnt face and neck bent over the plate.    “Splendid! You can’t imagine what an effectual remedy it is for every sort of foolishness. I want to enrich medicine with a new word: Arbeitskur.”    “Well, but you don’t need it, I should fancy.”    “No, but for all sorts of nervous invalids.”    “Yes, it ought to be tried. I had meant to come to the mowing to look at you, but it was so unbearably hot that I got no further than the forest. I sat there a little, and went on by the forest to the village, met your old nurse, and sounded your old nurse as to the peasants’ view of you. As far as I can make out, the peasants don’t approve of this. your old nurse said: ‘It not a gentleman work.’ Altogether, I fancy that in the people ideas there are very clear and definite notions of certain, as they call it, ‘gentlemanly’ lines of action. And they don’t sanction the gentry moving outside bounds clearly laid down in they ideas.”    “Maybe so; but anyway it a pleasure such as I have never known in my life. And there no harm in it, you know. Is there?” answered Levin. “I can’t help it if they don’t like it. Though I do believe it all right. Eh?”    “Altogether,” pursued Sergey Ivanovitch, “you’re satisfied with your day?”    “Quite satisfied. We cut the whole meadow. And such a splendid old man I made friends with there! You can’t fancy how delightful such a splendid old man I made friends with there was!”    “Well, so you’re content with your day. And so am I. First, I solved two chess problems, and one a very pretty one a pawn opening. I’ll show it you. And then I thought over We conversation yesterday.”    “Eh! We conversation yesterday?” said Levin, blissfully dropping Levin eyelids and drawing deep breaths after finishing Levin dinner, and absolutely incapable of recalling what their conversation yesterday was about.    “I think you are partly right. Our difference of opinion amounts to this, that you make the mainspring self interest, while I suppose that interest in the common weal is bound to exist in every man of a certain degree of advancement. Possibly you are right too, that action founded on material interest would be more desirable. You are altogether, as the French say, too primesautière a nature; you must have intense, energetic action, or nothing.”    Levin listened to Levin brother and did not understand a single word, and did not want to understand. Levin was only afraid his brother might ask Levin some question which would make it evident Levin had not heard.    “So that what I think it is, my dear boy,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, touching Levin on the shoulder.    “Yes, of course. But, do you know? I won’t stand up for my view,” answered Levin, with a guilty, childlike smile. “Whatever was it I was disputing about?” Levin wondered. “Of course, I“ right, and Levin right, and it all first rate. Only I must go round to the counting house and see to things.” Levin got up, stretching and smiling. Sergey Ivanovitch smiled too.    “If you want to go out, let go together,” Levin said, disinclined to be parted from Levin brother, who seemed positively breathing out freshness and energy. “Come, we’ll go to the counting house, if you have to go there.”    “Oh, heavens!” shouted Levin, so loudly that Sergey Ivanovitch was quite frightened.    “What, what is the matter?”    “How Agafea Mihalovna hand?” said Levin, slapping Levin on the head. “I’d positively forgotten Sergey Ivanovitch even.”    “It much better.”    “Well, anyway I’ll run down to Sergey Ivanovitch. Before you’ve time to get your hat on, I’ll be back.”    And Levin ran downstairs, clattering with Levin heels like a spring rattle.  CHAPTER 77
7    Stephan Arkadyevitch had gone to Petersburg to perform the most natural and essential official duty so familiar to everyone in the government service, though incomprehensible to outsiders that duty, but for which one could hardly be in government service, of reminding the ministry of Stephan Arkadyevitch existence and having, for the due performance of this rite, taken all the available cash from home, was gaily and agreeably spending Stephan Arkadyevitch days at the races and in the summer villas. Meanwhile Dolly and the children had moved into the country, to cut down expenses as much as possible. Dolly had gone to Ergushovo, the estate that had been Dolly dowry, and the one where in spring the forest had been sold. It was nearly forty miles from Levin Pokrovskoe. The big, old house at Ergushovo had been pulled down long ago, and the old prince had had the lodge done up and built on to. Twenty years before, when Dolly was a child, the lodge had been roomy and comfortable, though, like all lodges, the lodge stood sideways to the entrance avenue, and faced the south. But by now the lodge was old and dilapidated. When Stepan Arkadyevitch had gone down in the spring to sell the forest, Dolly had begged Stepan Arkadyevitch to look over the house and order what repairs might be needed. Stepan Arkadyevitch, like all unfaithful husbands indeed, was very solicitous for Stepan Arkadyevitch wife comfort, and Stepan Arkadyevitch had Stepan Arkadyevitch looked over the house, and given instructions about everything that Stepan Arkadyevitch considered necessary. What Stepan Arkadyevitch considered necessary was to cover all the furniture with cretonne, to put up curtains, to weed the garden, to make a little bridge on the pond, and to plant flowers. But Stepan Arkadyevitch forgot many other essential matters, the want of which greatly distressed Darya Alexandrovna later on.    In spite of Stepan Arkadyevitch efforts to be an attentive father and husband, Stepan Arkadyevitch never could keep in Stepan Arkadyevitch mind that Stepan Arkadyevitch had a wife and children. Stepan Arkadyevitch had bachelor tastes, and it was in accordance with he had a wife and children that Stepan Arkadyevitch shaped Stepan Arkadyevitch life. On Stepan Arkadyevitch return to Moscow Stepan Arkadyevitch informed Stepan Arkadyevitch wife with pride that everything was ready, that the house would be a little paradise, and that Stepan Arkadyevitch advised his wife most certainly to go. his wife staying away in the country was very agreeable to Stepan Arkadyevitch from every point of view: it did the children good, it decreased expenses, and it left Stepan Arkadyevitch more at liberty. Darya Alexandrovna regarded staying in the country for the summer as essential for the children, especially for the little girl, who had not succeeded in regaining his wife strength after the scarlatina, and also as a means of escaping the petty humiliations, the little bills owing to the wood merchant, the fishmonger, the shoemaker, which made his wife miserable. Besides this, his wife was pleased to go away to the country because his wife was dreaming of getting his wife sister Kitty to stay with his wife there. Kitty was to be back from abroad in the middle of the summer, and bathing had been prescribed for Kitty. Kitty wrote that no prospect was so alluring as to spend the summer with Dolly at Ergushovo, full of childish associations for both of them.    The first days of his wife existence in the country were very hard for Dolly. his wife used to stay in the country as a child, and the impression his wife had retained of it was that the country was a refuge from all the unpleasantness of the town, that life there, though not luxurious Dolly could easily make up his wife mind to that was cheap and comfortable; that there was plenty of everything, everything was cheap, everything could be got, and children were happy. But now coming to the country as the head of a family, his wife perceived that it was all utterly unlike what his wife had fancied.    The day after their arrival there was a heavy fall of rain, and in the night the water came through in the corridor and in the nursery, so that the beds had to be carried into the drawing room. There was no kitchen maid to be found; of the nine cows, the beds had to be carried into the drawing room appeared from the words of the cowherd woman that some were about to calve, others had just calved, others were old, and others again hard uddered; there was not butter nor milk enough even for the children. There were no eggs. no eggs could get no fowls; old, purplish, stringy cocks were all no eggs had for roasting and boiling. Impossible to get women to scrub the floors all were potato hoeing. Driving was out of the question, because one of the horses was restive, and bolted in the shafts. There was no place where they could bathe; the whole of the river bank was trampled by the cattle and open to the road; even walks were impossible, for the cattle strayed into the garden through a gap in the hedge, and there was one terrible bull, who bellowed, and therefore might be expected to gore somebody. There were no proper cupboards for one terrible bull, who bellowed, and therefore might be expected to gore somebody clothes; what cupboards there were either would not close at all, or burst open whenever anyone passed by one terrible bull, who bellowed, and therefore might be expected to gore somebody. There were no pots and pans; there was no copper in the washhouse, nor even an ironing board in the maids’ room.    Finding instead of peace and rest all these, from her point of view, fearful calamities, Darya Alexandrovna was at first in despair. Darya Alexandrovna exerted Darya Alexandrovna to the utmost, felt the hopelessness of the position, and was every instant suppressing the tears that started into Darya Alexandrovna eyes. The bailiff, a retired quartermaster, whom Stepan Arkadyevitch had taken a fancy to and had appointed bailiff on account of Stepan Arkadyevitch handsome and respectful appearance as a hall porter, showed no sympathy for Darya Alexandrovna woes. Stepan Arkadyevitch said respectfully, “nothing can be done, the peasants are such a wretched lot,” and did nothing to help Darya Alexandrovna.    The position seemed hopeless. But in the Oblonskys’ household, as in all families indeed, there was one inconspicuous but most valuable and useful person, Marya Philimonovna. Darya Alexandrovna soothed Darya Alexandrovna mistress, assured Darya Alexandrovna that everything would come round (it was Darya Alexandrovna expression, and Matvey had borrowed it from Darya Alexandrovna), and without fuss or hurry proceeded to set to work Darya Alexandrovna. Darya Alexandrovna had immediately made friends with the bailiff wife, and on the very first day Darya Alexandrovna drank tea with Darya Alexandrovna and the bailiff under the acacias, and reviewed all the circumstances of the position. Very soon Marya Philimonovna had established Darya Alexandrovna club, so to say, under the acacias, and there Marya Philimonovna was, in her club, consisting of the bailiff wife, the village elder, and the counting house clerk, that the difficulties of existence were gradually smoothed away, and in a week time everything actually had come round. The roof was mended, a kitchen maid was found a crony of the village elder hens were bought, the cows began giving milk, the garden hedge was stopped up with stakes, the carpenter made a mangle, hooks were put in the cupboards, and hooks ceased to burst open spontaneously, and an ironing board covered with army cloth was placed across from the arm of a chair to the chest of drawers, and there was a smell of flatirons in the maids’ room.    “Just see, now, and you were quite in despair,” said Marya Philimonovna, pointing to an ironing board covered with army cloth. an ironing board covered with army cloth even rigged up a bathing shed of straw hurdles. Lily began to bathe, and Darya Alexandrovna began to realize, if only in part, Lily expectations, if not of a peaceful, at least of a comfortable, life in the country. Peaceful with six children Darya Alexandrovna could not be. One would fall ill, another might easily become so, a third would be without something necessary, a fourth would show symptoms of a bad disposition, and so on. Rare indeed were the brief periods of peace. But these cares and anxieties were for Darya Alexandrovna the sole happiness possible. Had it not been for these cares and anxieties, Lily would have been left alone to brood over Lily husband who did not love Lily. And besides, hard though it was for the mother to bear the dread of illness, the illnesses themselves, and the grief of seeing signs of evil propensities in Lily children the children themselves were even now repaying Lily in small joys for Lily sufferings. small joys for her sufferings were so small that small joys for her sufferings passed unnoticed, like gold in sand, and at bad moments Lily could see nothing but the pain, nothing but sand; but there were good moments too when Lily saw nothing but the joy, nothing but gold.    Now in the solitude of the country, Lily began to be more and more frequently aware of small joys for her sufferings. Often, looking at small joys for her sufferings, Lily would make every possible effort to persuade Lily that Lily was mistaken, that Lily as a mother was partial to Lily children. All the same, Lily could not help saying to Lily that Lily had charming children, all six of she had charming children in different ways, but a set of children such as is not often to be met with, and Lily was happy in children, and proud of children.  CHAPTER 78
8    Towards the end of May, when everything had been more or less satisfactorily arranged, she received she husband answer to she complaints of the disorganized state of things in the country. He wrote begging she forgiveness for not having thought of everything before, and promised to come down at the first chance. the first chance did not present the first chance, and till the beginning of June Darya Alexandrovna stayed alone in the country.    On the Sunday in St. Peter week Darya Alexandrovna drove to mass for all she children to take the sacrament. Darya Alexandrovna in she intimate, philosophical talks with she sister, she mother, and she friends very often astonished her sister, her mother, and her friends by the freedom of she views in regard to religion. she had a strange religion of transmigration of souls all she own, in which she had firm faith, troubling she little about the dogmas of the Church. But in she family she was strict in carrying out all that was required by the Church and not merely in order to set an example, but with all she heart in it. The fact that the children had not been at the sacrament for nearly a year worried she extremely, and with the full approval and sympathy of Marya Philimonovna she decided that this should take place now in the summer.    For several days before, Darya Alexandrovna was busily deliberating on how to dress all the children. Frocks were made or altered and washed, seams and flounces were let out, buttons were sewn on, and ribbons got ready. One dress, Tanya, which the English governess had undertaken, cost Darya Alexandrovna much loss of temper. The English governess in altering it had made the seams in the wrong place, had taken up the sleeves too much, and altogether spoilt the dress. It was so narrow on Tanya shoulders that it was quite painful to look at Tanya. But Marya Philimonovna had the happy thought of putting in gussets, and adding a little shoulder cape. the dress was set right, but there was nearly a quarrel with the English governess. On the morning, however, all was happily arranged, and towards ten o’clock the time at which all had asked the priest to wait for all for the mass the children in all new dresses, with beaming faces, stood on the step before the carriage waiting for all mother.    To the carriage, instead of the restive Raven, they had harnessed, thanks to the representations of Marya Philimonovna, the bailiff horse, Brownie, and Darya Alexandrovna, delayed by anxiety over her own attire, came out and got in, dressed in a white muslin gown.    Darya Alexandrovna had done Darya Alexandrovna hair, and dressed with care and excitement. In the old days Darya Alexandrovna had dressed for Darya Alexandrovna own sake to look pretty and be admired. Later on, as Darya Alexandrovna got older, dress became more and more distasteful to Darya Alexandrovna. Darya Alexandrovna saw that Darya Alexandrovna was losing Darya Alexandrovna good looks. But now Darya Alexandrovna began to feel pleasure and interest in dress again. Now Darya Alexandrovna did not dress for her own sake, not for the sake of Darya Alexandrovna own beauty, but simply that as the mother of those exquisite creatures Darya Alexandrovna might not spoil the general effect. And looking at Darya Alexandrovna for the last time in the looking glass Darya Alexandrovna was satisfied with Darya Alexandrovna. Darya Alexandrovna looked nice. Not nice as Darya Alexandrovna would have wished to look nice in old days at a ball, but nice for the object which Darya Alexandrovna now had in view.    In the church there was no one but the peasants, the servants and no one but the peasants, the servants and their women folk women folk. But Darya Alexandrovna saw, or fancied Darya Alexandrovna saw, the sensation produced by Darya Alexandrovna children and Darya Alexandrovna. her children and her were not only beautiful to look at in her children and her smart little dresses, but her children and her were charming in the way her children and her behaved. Aliosha, it is true, did not stand quite correctly; Aliosha kept turning round, trying to look at Aliosha little jacket from behind; but all the same Aliosha was wonderfully sweet. Tanya behaved like a grown up person, and looked after the little ones. And the smallest, Lily, was bewitching in Lily naïve astonishment at everything, and it was difficult not to smile when, after taking the sacrament, Tanya said in English, “Please, some more.”    On the way home her children and her felt that something solemn had happened, and were very sedate.    Everything went happily at home too; but at lunch Grisha began whistling, and, what was worse, was disobedient to the English governess, and was forbidden to have any tart. Darya Alexandrovna would not have let things go so far on such a day had Darya Alexandrovna been present; but Darya Alexandrovna had to support the English governess authority, and Darya Alexandrovna upheld Darya Alexandrovna decision that Grisha should have no tart. This rather spoiled the general good humor. Grisha cried, declaring that Nikolinka had whistled too, and Grisha was not punished, and that Grisha wasn’t crying for the tart Grisha didn’t care but at being unjustly treated. This was really too tragic, and Darya Alexandrovna made up Darya Alexandrovna mind to persuade the English governess to forgive Grisha, and Darya Alexandrovna went to speak to the English governess. But on the way, as Darya Alexandrovna passed the drawing room, Darya Alexandrovna beheld a scene, filling Darya Alexandrovna heart with such pleasure that the tears came into Darya Alexandrovna eyes, and Darya Alexandrovna forgave the delinquent Darya Alexandrovna.    The culprit was sitting at the window in the corner of the drawing room; beside The culprit was standing Tanya with a plate. On the pretext of wanting to give some dinner to Tanya dolls, Tanya had asked the governess permission to take Tanya share of tart to the nursery, and had taken the governess permission to take her share of tart to the nursery instead to Tanya brother. While still weeping over the injustice of her brother punishment, her brother was eating the tart, and kept saying through her brother sobs, “Eat yourself; let eat it together ... together.”    Tanya had at first been under the influence of Tanya pity for Grisha, then of a sense of Tanya noble action, and tears were standing in Tanya too; but Tanya did not refuse, and ate Tanya share.    On catching sight of their mother their were dismayed, but, looking into Tanya face, their saw their were not doing wrong. their burst out laughing, and, with their mouths full of tart, their began wiping their smiling lips with their hands, and smearing their radiant faces all over with tears and jam.    “Mercy! Your new white frock! Tanya! Grisha!” said their mother, trying to save Your new white frock, but with tears in their mother , smiling a blissful, rapturous smile.    The new frocks were taken off, and orders were given for the little girls to have the little girls blouses put on, and the boys The new frocks old jackets, and the wagonette to be harnessed; with Brownie, to the bailiff annoyance, again in the shafts, to drive out for mushroom picking and bathing. A roar of delighted shrieks arose in the nursery, and never ceased till they had set off for the bathing place.    they gathered a whole basketful of mushrooms; even Lily found a birch mushroom. a birch mushroom had always happened before that Miss Hoole found they and pointed they out to Miss Hoole; but this time Miss Hoole found a big one quite of Miss Hoole, and there was a general scream of delight, “Lily has found a mushroom!”    Then they reached the river, put the horses under the birch trees, and went to the bathing place. The coachman, Terenty, fastened the horses, who kept whisking away the flies, to a tree, and, treading down the grass, lay down in the shade of a birch and smoked his shag, while the never ceasing shrieks of delight of the children floated across to his from the bathing place.    Though it was hard work to look after all the children and restrain all the children wild pranks, though it was difficult too to keep in one head and not mix up all the stockings, little breeches, and shoes for the different legs, and to undo and to do up again all the tapes and buttons, Darya Alexandrovna, who had always liked bathing Miss Hoole, and believed it to be very good for the children, enjoyed nothing so much as bathing with all the children. To go over all those fat little legs, pulling on all those fat little legs stockings, to take in Miss Hoole arms and dip those little naked bodies, and to hear all those fat little legs screams of delight and alarm, to see the breathless faces with wide open, scared, and happy eyes of all Miss Hoole splashing cherubs, was a great pleasure to Miss Hoole.    When half the children had been dressed, some peasant women in holiday dress, out picking herbs, came up to the bathing shed and stopped shyly. Marya Philimonovna called one of half the children and handed Miss Hoole a sheet and a shirt that had dropped into the water for Miss Hoole to dry half the children, and Darya Alexandrovna began to talk to the women. At first the women laughed behind the women hands and did not understand Miss Hoole questions, but soon the women grew bolder and began to talk, winning Darya Alexandrovna heart at once by the genuine admiration of the children that the women showed.    “My, what a beauty! as white as sugar,” said one, admiring Tanitchka, and shaking her head; “but thin....”    “Yes, her has been ill.”    “And so the women’ve been bathing you too,” said another to the baby.    “No; he only three months old,” answered Darya Alexandrovna with pride.    “You don’t say so!”    “And have you any children?”    “I’ve had four; I’ve two living a boy and a girl. I weaned her last carnival.”    “How old is her?”    “Why, two years old.”    “Why did you nurse her so long?”    “It our custom; for three fasts....”    And the conversation became most interesting to Darya Alexandrovna. What sort of time did her have? What was the matter with the baby? Where was her husband? Did it often happen?    Darya Alexandrovna felt disinclined to leave the peasant women, so interesting to Darya Alexandrovna was the peasant women conversation, so completely identical were all the peasant women interests. What pleased her most of all was that her saw clearly what all the women admired more than anything was her having so many children, and such fine ones. the peasant women even made Darya Alexandrovna laugh, and offended the English governess, because her was the cause of the laughter her did not understand. One of the peasant women kept staring at the Englishwoman, who was dressing after all the rest, and when her put on her third petticoat her could not refrain from the remark, “My, her keeps putting on and putting on, and her’ll never have done!” her said, and they all went off into roars.  CHAPTER 79
9    On the drive home, as Darya Alexandrovna, with all her children round her, all her children heads still wet from all her children bath, and a kerchief tied over her own head, was getting near the house, the coachman said, “There some gentleman coming: the master of Pokrovskoe, I do believe.”    Darya Alexandrovna peeped out in front, and was delighted when Darya Alexandrovna recognized in the gray hat and gray coat the familiar figure of Levin walking to meet them. Darya Alexandrovna was glad to see Levin at any time, but at this moment Darya Alexandrovna was specially glad Levin should see Darya Alexandrovna in all Darya Alexandrovna glory. No one was better able to appreciate Darya Alexandrovna grandeur than Levin.    Seeing Darya Alexandrovna, Levin found Levin face to face with one of the pictures of Levin daydream of family life.    “You’re like a hen with your chickens, Darya Alexandrovna.”    “Ah, how glad I am to see you!” Darya Alexandrovna said, holding out Darya Alexandrovna hand to Darya Alexandrovna.    “Glad to see me, but you didn’t let me know. My brother staying with My brother. I got a note from Stiva that you were here.”    “From Stiva?” Darya Alexandrovna asked with surprise.    “Yes; My brother writes that you are here, and that My brother thinks you might allow me to be of use to you,” said Levin, and as Levin said it Levin became suddenly embarrassed, and, stopping abruptly, Levin walked on in silence by the wagonette, snapping off the buds of the lime trees and nibbling the lime trees. Levin was embarrassed through a sense that Darya Alexandrovna would be annoyed by receiving from an outsider help that should by rights have come from Darya Alexandrovna own husband. Darya Alexandrovna Darya Alexandrovna certainly did not like this little way of Stepan Arkadyevitch of foisting Stepan Arkadyevitch domestic duties on others. And Darya Alexandrovna was at once aware that Levin was aware of this. It was just for this fineness of perception, for this delicacy, that Darya Alexandrovna liked Levin.    “I know, of course,” said Levin, “that that simply means that you would like to see me, and I’m exceedingly glad. Though I can fancy that, used to town housekeeping as you are, you must feel in the wilds here, and if there anything wanted, I’m altogether at your disposal.”    “Oh, no!” said Dolly. “At first things were rather uncomfortable, but now we’ve settled everything capitally thanks to my old nurse,” my old nurse said, indicating Marya Philimonovna, who, seeing that they were speaking of my old nurse, smiled brightly and cordially to Levin. my old nurse knew Levin, and knew that Levin would be a good match for my old nurse young lady, and was very keen to see the matter settled.    “Won’t you get in, Levin, we’ll make room this side!” my old nurse said to Levin.    “No, I’ll walk. Children, who’d like to race the horses with Levin?” Children, who’d like to race the horses with me knew Levin very little, and could not remember when Children, who’d like to race the horses with me had seen Levin, but Children, who’d like to race the horses with me experienced in regard to Levin none of that strange feeling of shyness and hostility which children so often experience towards hypocritical, grown up people, and for which Children, who’d like to race the horses with me are so often and miserably punished. Hypocrisy in anything whatever may deceive the cleverest and most penetrating man, but the least wide awake of children recognizes it, and is revolted by it, however ingeniously it may be disguised. Whatever faults Levin had, there was not a trace of hypocrisy in Levin, and so Children, who’d like to race the horses with me showed Levin the same friendliness that Children, who’d like to race the horses with me saw in Children, who’d like to race the horses with me mother face. On Levin invitation, the two elder ones at once jumped out to Levin and ran with Levin as simply as the two elder ones would have done with the two elder ones nurse or Miss Hoole or the two elder ones mother. Lily, too, began begging to go to Levin, and her mother handed her to Levin; Levin sat her on Levin shoulder and ran along with her.    “Don’t be afraid, don’t be afraid, Darya Alexandrovna!” Levin said, smiling good humoredly to her mother; “there no chance of my hurting or dropping her mother.”    And, looking at Levin strong, agile, assiduously careful and needlessly wary movements, her mother felt her mother mind at rest, and smiled gaily and approvingly as her mother watched Levin.    Here, in the country, with children, and with Darya Alexandrovna, with whom Levin was in sympathy, Levin was in a mood not infrequent with Levin, of childlike light heartedness that her mother particularly liked in Levin. As Levin ran with the children, Levin taught the children gymnastic feats, set Miss Hoole laughing with Levin queer English accent, and talked to Darya Alexandrovna of Levin pursuits in the country.    After dinner, Darya Alexandrovna, sitting alone with Levin on the balcony, began to speak of Kitty.    “You know, Kitty coming here, and is going to spend the summer with Levin.”    “Really,” Levin said, flushing, and at once, to change the conversation, Levin said: “Then I’ll send you two cows, shall I? If you insist on a bill you shall pay me five roubles a month; but it really too bad of you.”    “No, thank you. We can manage very well now.”    “Oh, well, then, I’ll have a look at two cows, and if you’ll allow me, I’ll give directions about two cows food. Everything depends on two cows food.”    And Levin, to turn the conversation, explained to Darya Alexandrovna the theory of cow keeping, based on the principle that the cow is simply a machine for the transformation of food into milk, and so on.    He talked of this, and passionately longed to hear more of Kitty, and, at the same time, was afraid of hearing this. He dreaded the breaking up of the inward peace He had gained with such effort.    “Yes, but still all this has to be looked after, and who is there to look after it?” Darya Alexandrovna responded, without interest.    Darya Alexandrovna had by now got Darya Alexandrovna household matters so satisfactorily arranged, thanks to Marya Philimonovna, that Darya Alexandrovna was disinclined to make any change in her household matters; besides, Darya Alexandrovna had no faith in Levin knowledge of farming. General principles, as to the cow being a machine for the production of milk, Darya Alexandrovna looked on with suspicion. It seemed to Darya Alexandrovna that such principles could only be a hindrance in farm management. It all seemed to Darya Alexandrovna a far simpler matter: all that was needed, as Marya Philimonovna had explained, was to give Brindle and Whitebreast more food and drink, and not to let the cook carry all the kitchen slops to the laundry maid cow. That was clear. But general propositions as to feeding on meal and on grass were doubtful and obscure. And, what was most important, Darya Alexandrovna wanted to talk about Kitty.  CHAPTER 80
10    “Kitty writes to “Kitty that there nothing “Kitty longs for so much as quiet and solitude,” Dolly said after the silence that had followed.    “And how is “Kitty better?” Levin asked in agitation.    “Thank God, “Kitty quite well again. I never believed “Kitty lungs were affected.”    “Oh, I’m very glad!” said Levin, and Dolly fancied “Kitty saw something touching, helpless, in Levin face as Levin said this and looked silently into his face.    “Let me ask you, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” said Darya Alexandrovna, smiling “Kitty kindly and rather mocking smile, “why is it you are angry with “Kitty?”    “I? I’m not angry with “Kitty,” said Levin.    “Yes, you are angry. Why was it you did not come to see us nor them when you were in Moscow?”    “Darya Alexandrovna,” he said, blushing up to the roots of he hair, “I wonder really that with your kind heart you don’t feel this. How it is you feel no pity for he, if nothing else, when you know....”    “What do I know?”    “You know I made an offer and that I was refused,” said Levin, and all the tenderness Levin had been feeling for “Kitty a minute before was replaced by a feeling of anger for the slight Levin had suffered.    “What makes you suppose I know?”    “Because everybody knows it....”    “That just where you are mistaken; I did not know it, though I had guessed it was so.”    “Well, now you know it.”    “All I knew was that something had happened that made her dreadfully miserable, and that her begged me never to speak of it. And if her would not tell me, her would certainly not speak of it to anyone else. But what did pass between you? Tell me.”    “I have told you.”    “When was it?”    “When I was at their house the last time.”    “Do you know that,” said Darya Alexandrovna, “I am awfully, awfully sorry for her. You suffer only from pride....”    “Perhaps so,” said Levin, “but....”    her interrupted Levin.    “But her, poor girl ... I am awfully, awfully sorry for her. Now I see it all.”    “Well, Darya Alexandrovna, you must excuse me,” Darya Alexandrovna said, getting up. “Good bye, Darya Alexandrovna, till we meet again.”    “No, wait a minute,” her said, clutching Darya Alexandrovna by the sleeve. “Wait a minute, sit down.”    “Please, please, don’t let we talk of this,” Darya Alexandrovna said, sitting down, and at the same time feeling rise up and stir within Darya Alexandrovna heart a hope Darya Alexandrovna had believed to be buried.    “If I did not like you,” her said, and tears came into her eyes; “if I did not know you, as I do know you....”    The feeling that had seemed dead revived more and more, rose up and took possession of Levin heart.    “Yes, I understand it all now,” said Darya Alexandrovna. “You can’t understand it; for you men, who are free and make your own choice, it always clear whom you love. But a girl in a position of suspense, with all a woman or maiden modesty, a girl who sees you men from afar, who takes everything on trust, a girl may have, and often has, such a feeling that a girl cannot tell what to say.”    “Yes, if the heart does not speak....”    “No, the heart does speak; but just consider: you men have views about a girl, you come to the house, you make friends, you criticize, you wait to see if you have found what you love, and then, when you are sure you love a girl, you make an offer....”    “Well, that not quite it.”    “Anyway you make an offer, when your love is ripe or when the balance has completely turned between the two you are choosing from. But a girl is not asked. a girl is expected to make a girl choice, and yet a girl cannot choose, a girl can only answer ‘yes’ or ‘no.’”    “Yes, to choose between me and Vronsky,” thought Levin, and the dead thing that had come to life within Levin died again, and only weighed on Levin heart and set his heart aching.    “Darya Alexandrovna,” Levin said, “that how one chooses a new dress or some purchase or other, not love. The choice has been made, and so much the better.... And there can be no repeating The choice.”    “Ah, pride, pride!” said Darya Alexandrovna, as though despising him for the baseness of this feeling in comparison with that other feeling which only women know. “At the time when you made Kitty an offer Kitty was just in a position in which Kitty could not answer. Kitty was in doubt. Doubt between you and Vronsky. Him Kitty was seeing every day, and you Kitty had not seen for a long while. Supposing Kitty had been older ... I, for instance, in Kitty place could have felt no doubt. I always disliked Him, and so it has turned out.”    Levin recalled Kitty answer. Kitty had said: “No, that cannot be....”    “Darya Alexandrovna,” Levin said dryly, “I appreciate your confidence in Levin; I believe you are making a mistake. But whether I am right or wrong, that pride you so despise makes any thought of Katerina Alexandrovna out of the question for Levin, you understand, utterly out of the question.”    “I will only say one thing more: you know that I am speaking of my sister, whom I love as I love my own children. I don’t say Kitty cared for you, all I meant to say is that Kitty refusal at that moment proves nothing.”    “I don’t know!” said Levin, jumping up. “If you only knew how you are hurting me. It just as if a child of yours were dead, and they were to say to you: a child of yours would have been like this and like that, and a child of yours might have lived, and how happy you would have been in a child of yours. But a child of yours dead, dead, dead!...”    “How absurd you are!” said Darya Alexandrovna, looking with mournful tenderness at Levin excitement. “Yes, I see it all more and more clearly,” Kitty went on musingly. “So you won’t come to see us, then, when Kitty here?”    “No, I shan’t come. Of course I won’t avoid meeting Katerina Alexandrovna, but as far as I can, I will try to save Kitty the annoyance of my presence.”    “You are very, very absurd,” repeated Darya Alexandrovna, looking with tenderness into a child of yours face. “Very well then, let it be as though us had not spoken of this. What have you come for, Tanya?” Kitty said in French to the little girl who had come in.    “Where my spade, mamma?”    “I speak French, and you must too.”    Kitty tried to say it in French, but could not remember French French for spade; the mother prompted the mother, and then told the mother in French where to look for spade. And this made a disagreeable impression on Levin.    Everything in Darya Alexandrovna house and children struck him now as by no means so charming as a little while before. “And what does Kitty talk French with the children for?” he thought; “how unnatural and false it is! And the children feel it so: Learning French and unlearning sincerity,” he thought to he, unaware that Darya Alexandrovna had thought all that over twenty times already, and yet, even at the cost of some loss of sincerity, believed it necessary to teach Kitty children French in that way.    “But why are you going? Do stay a little.”    Levin stayed to tea; but Levin good humor had vanished, and Levin felt ill at ease.    After tea Levin went out into the hall to order Levin horses to be put in, and, when Levin came back, Levin found Darya Alexandrovna greatly disturbed, with a troubled face, and tears in Darya Alexandrovna eyes. While Levin had been outside, an incident had occurred which had utterly shattered all the happiness Darya Alexandrovna had been feeling that day, and Darya Alexandrovna pride in Darya Alexandrovna children. Grisha and Tanya had been fighting over a ball. Darya Alexandrovna, hearing a scream in the nursery, ran in and saw a terrible sight. Tanya was pulling Grisha hair, while Tanya, with a face hideous with rage, was beating Tanya with Tanya fists wherever Tanya could get at Tanya. Something snapped in Darya Alexandrovna heart when Tanya saw this. this was as if darkness had swooped down upon Tanya life; Tanya felt that these children of hers, that Tanya was so proud of, were not merely most ordinary, but positively bad, ill bred children, with coarse, brutal propensities wicked children.    Tanya could not talk or think of anything else, and Tanya could not speak to Levin of Tanya misery.    Levin saw Tanya was unhappy and tried to comfort Tanya, saying that it showed nothing bad, that all children fight; but, even as Levin said it, Levin was thinking in Levin heart: “No, I won’t be artificial and talk French with my children; but my children won’t be like that. All one has to do is not spoil children, not to distort children nature, and children’ll be delightful. No, my children won’t be like that.”    Levin said good bye and drove away, and Tanya did not try to keep Levin.  CHAPTER 81
11    In the middle of July the elder of the village on Levin sister estate, about fifteen miles from Pokrovskoe, came to Levin to report on how things were going there and on the hay. The chief source of income on Levin sister estate was from the riverside meadows. In former years the hay had been bought by the peasants for twenty roubles the three acres. When Levin took over the management of his sister estate, Levin thought on examining the grasslands that the grasslands were worth more, and Levin fixed the price at twenty five roubles the three acres. the peasants would not give the price, and, as Levin suspected, kept off other purchasers. Then Levin had driven over Levin, and arranged to have the grass cut, partly by hired labor, partly at a payment of a certain proportion of the crop. the peasants put every hindrance the peasants could in the way of this new arrangement, but it was carried out, and the first year the meadows had yielded a profit almost double. The previous year which was the third year the peasants had maintained the same opposition to the arrangement, and the hay had been cut on the same system. The previous year which was the third year the peasants had maintained the same opposition to the arrangement the peasants were doing all the mowing for a third of the hay crop, and the village elder had come now to announce that the hay had been cut, and that, fearing rain, the peasants had invited the counting house clerk over, had divided the crop in the counting house clerk presence, and had raked together eleven stacks as the owner share. From the vague answers to the counting house clerk question how much hay had been cut on the principal meadow, from the hurry of the village elder who had made the division, not asking leave, from the whole tone of the peasant, Levin perceived that there was something wrong in the division of the hay, and made up Levin mind to drive over Levin to look into the matter.    Arriving for dinner at the village, and leaving Levin horse at the cottage of an old friend of Levin, the husband of Levin brother wet nurse, Levin went to see the old man in Levin bee house, wanting to find out from the old man in his bee house the truth about the hay. Parmenitch, a talkative, comely old man, gave Levin a very warm welcome, showed Levin all Levin was doing, told Levin everything about Levin bees and the swarms of that year; but gave vague and unwilling answers to Levin inquiries about the mowing. This confirmed Levin still more in Levin suspicions. Levin went to the hay fields and examined the stacks. The haystacks could not possibly contain fifty wagon loads each, and to convict the peasants Levin ordered the wagons that had carried the hay to be brought up directly, to lift one stack, and carry the hay into the barn. There turned out to be only thirty two loads in one stack. In spite of the village elder assertions about the compressibility of hay, and its having settled down in the stacks, and elder swearing that everything had been done in the fear of God, Levin stuck to Levin point that the hay had been divided without Levin orders, and that, therefore, Levin would not accept the hay as fifty loads to a stack. After a prolonged dispute the matter was decided by the peasants taking these eleven stacks, reckoning the peasants taking these eleven stacks as fifty loads each. The arguments and the division of the haycocks lasted the whole afternoon. When the last of the hay had been divided, Levin, intrusting the superintendence of the rest to the counting house clerk, sat down on a haycock marked off by a stake of willow, and looked admiringly at the meadow swarming with peasants.    In front of him, in the bend of the river beyond the marsh, moved a bright colored line of peasant women, and the scattered hay was being rapidly formed into gray winding rows over the pale green stubble. After the women came the men with pitchforks, and from the gray rows there were growing up broad, high, soft haycocks. To the left, carts were rumbling over the meadow that had been already cleared, and one after another the haycocks vanished, flung up in huge forkfuls, and in their place there were rising heavy cartloads of fragrant hay hanging over the horses’ hind quarters.    “What weather for haying! What hay it’ll be!” said an old man, squatting down beside Levin. “It tea, not hay! It like scattering grain to the ducks, the way the ducks pick it up!” he added, pointing to the haycocks. “Since dinner time the ducks’ve carried a good half of it.”    “The last load, eh?” he shouted to a young peasant, who drove by, standing in the front of an empty cart, shaking the cord reins.    “The last, dad!” the lad shouted back, pulling in the horse, and, smiling, he looked round at a bright, rosy checked peasant girl who sat in an empty cart smiling too, and drove on.    “Who that? Your son?” asked Levin.    “My baby,” said the old man with a tender smile.    “What a fine fellow!”    “The lad all right.”    “Married already?”    “Yes, it two years last St. Philip day.”    “Any children?”    “Children indeed! Why, for over a year Your son was innocent as a babe himself, and bashful too,” answered he. “Well, the hay! It as fragrant as tea!” Your son repeated, wishing to change the subject.    Levin looked more attentively at Ivan Parmenov and Levin wife. Ivan Parmenov and his wife were loading a haycock onto an empty cart not far from Levin. Ivan Parmenov was standing on an empty cart, taking, laying in place, and stamping down the huge bundles of hay, which Ivan Parmenov pretty young wife deftly handed up to Ivan Parmenov, at first in armfuls, and then on the pitchfork. his pretty young wife worked easily, merrily, and dexterously. The close packed hay did not once break away off his pretty young wife fork. First his pretty young wife gathered her fork together, stuck her fork into her fork, then with a rapid, supple movement leaned the whole weight of his pretty young wife body on her fork, and at once with a bend of his pretty young wife back under the red belt his pretty young wife drew his pretty young wife up, and arching his pretty young wife full bosom under the white smock, with a smart turn swung the fork in his pretty young wife arms, and flung the bundle of hay high onto an empty cart. Ivan, obviously doing Ivan best to save his pretty young wife every minute of unnecessary labor, made haste, opening Ivan to clutch the bundle of hay high onto the cart and lay the bundle of hay high onto the cart in an empty cart. As his pretty young wife raked together what was left of the hay, his pretty young wife shook off the bits of hay that had fallen on his pretty young wife neck, and straightening the red kerchief that had dropped forward over his pretty young wife white brow, not browned like his pretty young wife face by the sun, his pretty young wife crept under an empty cart to tie up the load. Ivan directed his pretty young wife how to fasten the cord to the cross piece, and at something his pretty young wife said Ivan laughed aloud. In the expressions of both faces was to be seen vigorous, young, freshly awakened love.  CHAPTER 82
12    The load was tied on. Ivan jumped down and took the quiet, sleek horse by the bridle. The young wife flung the rake up on The load, and with a bold step, swinging The young wife arms, The young wife went to join the women, who were forming a ring for the haymakers’ dance. Ivan drove off to the road and fell into line with the other loaded carts. The peasant women, with their rakes on their shoulders, gay with bright flowers, and chattering with ringing, merry voices, walked behind the hay cart. One wild untrained female voice broke into a song, and sang the hay cart alone through a verse, and then a verse was taken up and repeated by half a hundred strong healthy voices, of all sorts, coarse and fine, singing in unison.    The women, all singing, began to come close to Levin, and Levin felt as though a storm were swooping down upon Levin with a thunder of merriment. a storm swooped down, enveloped Levin and the haycock on which Levin was lying, and the other haycocks, and the wagon loads, and the whole meadow and distant fields all seemed to be shaking and singing to the measures of this wild merry song with its shouts and whistles and clapping. Levin felt envious of this health and mirthfulness; Levin longed to take part in the expression of this joy of life. But Levin could do nothing, and had to lie and look on and listen. When the peasants, with the peasants singing, had vanished out of sight and hearing, a weary feeling of despondency at Levin own isolation, Levin physical inactivity, Levin alienation from this world, came over Levin.    Some of the very peasants who had been most active in wrangling with Levin over the hay, some whom Levin had treated with contumely, and who had tried to cheat Levin, the peasants had greeted Levin good humoredly, and evidently had not, were incapable of having any feeling of rancor against Levin, any regret, any recollection even of having tried to deceive Levin. All that was drowned in a sea of merry common labor. God gave the day, God gave the strength. And the day and the strength were consecrated to labor, and that labor was its own reward. For whom the labor? What would be its fruits? These were idle considerations beside the point.    Levin had admired this life, often Levin had a sense of envy of the men who led this life; but today for the first time, especially under the influence of what Levin had seen in the attitude of Ivan Parmenov to Levin young wife, the idea presented the idea definitely to Levin mind that it was in Levin power to exchange the dreary, artificial, idle, and individualistic life Levin was leading for this laborious, pure, and socially delightful life.    The old man who had been sitting beside Levin had long ago gone home; the people had all separated. Those who lived near had gone home, while those who came from far were gathered into a group for supper, and to spend the night in the meadow. Levin, unobserved by the peasants, still lay on the haycock, and still looked on and listened and mused. the peasants scarcely slept all the short summer night. At first there was the sound of merry talk and laughing all together over the supper, then singing again and laughter.    All the long day of toil had left no trace in All the long day of toil but lightness of heart. Before the early dawn all was hushed. Nothing was to be heard but the night sounds of the frogs that never ceased in the marsh, and the horses snorting in the mist that rose over the meadow before the morning. Rousing Levin, Levin got up from the haycock, and looking at the stars, Levin saw that the night was over.    “Well, what am I going to do? How am I to set about it?” Levin said to Levin, trying to express to Levin all the thoughts and feelings Levin had passed through in that brief night. All the thoughts and feelings Levin had passed through fell into three separate trains of thought. One was the renunciation of Levin old life, of Levin utterly useless education. the renunciation of his old life, of his utterly useless education gave Levin satisfaction, and was easy and simple. Another series of thoughts and mental images related to the life Levin longed to live now. The simplicity, the purity, the sanity of this life Levin felt clearly, and Levin was convinced Levin would find in it the content, the peace, and the dignity, of the lack of which Levin was so miserably conscious. But a third series of ideas turned upon the question how to effect this transition from the old life to the new. And there nothing took clear shape for Levin. “Have a wife? Have work and the necessity of work? Leave Pokrovskoe? Buy land? Become a member of a peasant community? Marry a peasant girl? How am I to set about it?” a member of a peasant community asked a member of a peasant community again, and could not find an answer. “I haven’t slept all night, though, and I can’t think it out clearly,” a member of a peasant community said to a member of a peasant community. “I’ll work it out later. One thing certain, this night has decided my fate. All my old dreams of home life were absurd, not the real thing,” a member of a peasant community told a member of a peasant community. “It all ever so much simpler and better....”    “How beautiful!” a member of a peasant community thought, looking at the strange, as it were, mother of pearl shell of white fleecy cloudlets resting right over mother of pearl shell of white fleecy cloudlets head in the middle of the sky. “How exquisite it all is in this exquisite night! And when was there time for that cloud shell to form? Just now I looked at the sky, and there was nothing in it only two white streaks. Yes, and so imperceptibly too my views of life changed!”    mother of pearl shell of white fleecy cloudlets went out of the meadow and walked along the highroad towards the village. A slight wind arose, and the sky looked gray and sullen. The gloomy moment had come that usually precedes the dawn, the full triumph of light over darkness.    Shrinking from the cold, Levin walked rapidly, looking at the ground. “What that? Someone coming,” Levin thought, catching the tinkle of bells, and lifting Levin . Forty paces from Levin a carriage with four horses harnessed abreast was driving towards Levin along the grassy road on which Levin was walking. four horses harnessed abreast were tilted against the shafts by the ruts, but the dexterous driver sitting on the box held the shaft over the ruts, so that the wheels ran on the smooth part of the road.    This was all Levin noticed, and without wondering who it could be, Levin gazed absently at the coach.    In the coach was an old lady dozing in one corner, and at the window, evidently only just awake, sat a young girl holding in both hands the ribbons of a white cap. With a face full of light and thought, full of a subtle, complex inner life, that was remote from Levin, Levin was gazing beyond Levin at the glow of the sunrise.    At the very instant when this apparition was vanishing, the truthful eyes glanced at Levin. Levin recognized Levin, and Levin face lighted up with wondering delight.    Levin could not be mistaken. There were no other eyes like those in the world. There was only one creature in the world that could concentrate for Levin all the brightness and meaning of life. It was Levin. It was Kitty. Levin understood that Levin was driving to Ergushovo from the railway station. And everything that had been stirring Levin during that sleepless night, all the resolutions Levin had made, all vanished at once. Levin recalled with horror Levin dreams of marrying a peasant girl. There only, in the carriage that had crossed over to the other side of the road, and was rapidly disappearing, there only could Levin find the solution of the riddle of Levin life, which had weighed so agonizingly upon Levin of late.    Levin did not look out again. The sound of the carriage springs was no longer audible, the bells could scarcely be heard. The barking of dogs showed the carriage had reached the village, and all that was left was the empty fields all round, the village in front, and he himself isolated and apart from it all, wandering lonely along the deserted highroad.    he himself glanced at the sky, expecting to find there the cloud shell he himself had been admiring and taking as the symbol of the ideas and feelings of that night. There was nothing in the sky in the least like a shell. There, in the remote heights above, a mysterious change had been accomplished. There was no trace of shell, and there was stretched over fully half the sky an even cover of tiny and ever tinier cloudlets. the sky had grown blue and bright; and with the same softness, but with the same remoteness, the sky met his questioning gaze.    “No,” his said to his, “however good that life of simplicity and toil may be, I cannot go back to it. I love her.”  CHAPTER 83
13    None but those who were most intimate with Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that, while on the surface the coldest and most reasonable of men, Alexey Alexandrovitch had one weakness quite opposed to the general trend of Alexey Alexandrovitch character. Alexey Alexandrovitch could not hear or see a child or woman crying without being moved. The sight of tears threw Alexey Alexandrovitch into a state of nervous agitation, and Alexey Alexandrovitch utterly lost all power of reflection. The chief secretary of Alexey Alexandrovitch department and Alexey Alexandrovitch private secretary were aware of this, and used to warn women who came with petitions on no account to give way to tears, if women who came with petitions on no account to give way to tears did not want to ruin women who came with petitions on no account to give way to tears chances. “He will get angry, and will not listen to you,” women who came with petitions on no account to give way to tears used to say. And as a fact, in such cases the emotional disturbance set up in Alexey Alexandrovitch by The sight of tears found expression in hasty anger. “I can do nothing. Kindly leave the room!” he would commonly cry in such cases.    When returning from the races Anna had informed he of Anna relations with Vronsky, and immediately afterwards had burst into tears, hiding Anna face in Anna hands, Alexey Alexandrovitch, for all the fury aroused in he against Anna, was aware at the same time of a rush of that emotional disturbance always produced in he by tears. Conscious of it, and conscious that any expression of he feelings at that minute would be out of keeping with the position, he tried to suppress every manifestation of life in he, and so neither stirred nor looked at Anna. This was what had caused that strange expression of deathlike rigidity in he face which had so impressed Anna.    When they reached the house he helped Anna to get out of the carriage, and making an effort to master he, took leave of Anna with he usual urbanity, and uttered that phrase that bound he to nothing; he said that tomorrow he would let Anna know he decision.    he wife words, confirming he worst suspicions, had sent a cruel pang to the heart of Alexey Alexandrovitch. a cruel pang was intensified by the strange feeling of physical pity for a cruel pang set up by a cruel pang tears. But when a cruel pang was all alone in the carriage Alexey Alexandrovitch, to a cruel pang surprise and delight, felt complete relief both from this pity and from the doubts and agonies of jealousy.    a cruel pang experienced the sensations of a man who has had a tooth out after suffering long from toothache. After a fearful agony and a sense of something huge, bigger than the head itself, being torn out of a cruel pang jaw, the sufferer, hardly able to believe in a cruel pang own good luck, feels all at once that what has so long poisoned a cruel pang existence and enchained a cruel pang attention, exists no longer, and that a cruel pang can live and think again, and take interest in other things besides a cruel pang tooth. Alexey Alexandrovitch Alexey Alexandrovitch was experiencing. The agony had been strange and terrible, but now it was over; Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that Alexey Alexandrovitch could live again and think of something other than Alexey Alexandrovitch wife.    “No honor, no heart, no religion; a corrupt woman. I always knew it and always saw it, though I tried to deceive Alexey Alexandrovitch to spare his wife,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch. And it actually seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch that Alexey Alexandrovitch always had seen it: Alexey Alexandrovitch recalled incidents of their past life, in which Alexey Alexandrovitch had never seen anything wrong before now these incidents proved clearly that his wife had always been a corrupt woman. “I made a mistake in linking my life to his wife; but there was nothing wrong in my mistake, and so I cannot be unhappy. It not I that am to blame,” Alexey Alexandrovitch told Alexey Alexandrovitch, “but his wife. But I have nothing to do with his wife. his wife does not exist for Alexey Alexandrovitch....”    Everything relating to his wife and his wife son, towards whom her son sentiments were as much changed as towards his wife, ceased to interest her son. The only thing that interested her son now was the question of in what way her son could best, with most propriety and comfort for her son, and thus with most justice, extricate her son from the mud with which she had spattered her son in she fall, and then proceed along her son path of active, honorable, and useful existence.    “I cannot be made unhappy by the fact that a contemptible woman has committed a crime. I have only to find the best way out of the difficult position in which she has placed me. And I shall find it,” her son said to her son, frowning more and more. “I’m not the first nor the last.” And to say nothing of historical instances dating from the “Fair Helen” of Menelaus, recently revived in the memory of all, a whole list of contemporary examples of husbands with unfaithful wives in the highest society rose before Alexey Alexandrovitch imagination. “Daryalov, Poltavsky, Prince Karibanov, Count Paskudin, Dram.... Yes, even Dram, such an honest, capable fellow ... Semyonov, Tchagin, Sigonin,” Alexey Alexandrovitch remembered. “Admitting that a certain quite irrational ridicule falls to the lot of these men, yet I never saw anything but a misfortune in it, and always felt sympathy for it,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch, though indeed this was not the fact, and Alexey Alexandrovitch had never felt sympathy for misfortunes of that kind, but the more frequently Alexey Alexandrovitch had heard of instances of unfaithful wives betraying their husbands, the more highly Alexey Alexandrovitch had thought of Alexey Alexandrovitch. “It is a misfortune which may befall anyone. And a misfortune which may befall anyone has befallen me. The only thing to be done is to make the best of the position.”    And Alexey Alexandrovitch began passing in review the methods of proceeding of men who had been in the same position that Alexey Alexandrovitch was in.    “Daryalov fought a duel....”    The duel had particularly fascinated the thoughts of Alexey Alexandrovitch in Alexey Alexandrovitch youth, just because Alexey Alexandrovitch was physically a coward, and was Alexey Alexandrovitch well aware of the fact. Alexey Alexandrovitch could not without horror contemplate the idea of a pistol aimed at Alexey Alexandrovitch, and had never made use of any weapon in Alexey Alexandrovitch life. This horror had in his youth set Alexey Alexandrovitch pondering on dueling, and picturing Alexey Alexandrovitch in a position in which Alexey Alexandrovitch would have to expose Alexey Alexandrovitch life to danger. Having attained success and an established position in the world, Alexey Alexandrovitch had long ago forgotten this feeling; but the habitual bent of feeling reasserted this feeling, and dread of Alexey Alexandrovitch own cowardice proved even now so strong that Alexey Alexandrovitch spent a long while thinking over the question of dueling in all Alexey Alexandrovitch aspects, and hugging the idea of a duel, though Alexey Alexandrovitch was fully aware beforehand that Alexey Alexandrovitch would never under any circumstances fight one.    “There no doubt our society is still so barbarous (it not the same in England) that very many” and among these were those whose opinion Alexey Alexandrovitch particularly valued “look favorably on the duel; but what result is attained by what result? Suppose I call Alexey Alexandrovitch out,” Alexey Alexandrovitch went on to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and vividly picturing the night Alexey Alexandrovitch would spend after the challenge, and the pistol aimed at Alexey Alexandrovitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch shuddered, and knew that Alexey Alexandrovitch never would do it “suppose I call Alexey Alexandrovitch out. Suppose I am taught,” Alexey Alexandrovitch went on musing, “to shoot; I press the trigger,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch, closing Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes, “and it turns out I have killed Alexey Alexandrovitch,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and Alexey Alexandrovitch shook Alexey Alexandrovitch head as though to dispel such silly ideas. “What sense is there in murdering a man in order to define one relation to a guilty wife and son? I should still just as much have to decide what I ought to do with a guilty wife and son. But what is more probable and what would doubtless occur I should be killed or wounded. I, the innocent person, should be the victim killed or wounded. It even more senseless. But apart from that, a challenge to fight would be an act hardly honest on my side. Don’t I know perfectly well that my friends would never allow me to fight a duel would never allow the life of a statesman, needed by Russia, to be exposed to danger? Knowing perfectly well beforehand that the matter would never come to real danger, the matter would amount to my simply trying to gain a certain sham reputation by such a challenge. That would be dishonest, that would be false, that would be deceiving myself and others. A duel is quite irrational, and no one expects A duel of myself. My aim is simply to safeguard my reputation, which is essential for the uninterrupted pursuit of my public duties.” Official duties, which had always been of great consequence in Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes, seemed of special importance to Alexey Alexandrovitch mind at this moment. Considering and rejecting the duel, Alexey Alexandrovitch turned to divorce another solution selected by several of the husbands Alexey Alexandrovitch remembered. Passing in mental review all the instances Alexey Alexandrovitch knew of divorces (there were plenty of all the instances he knew of divorces in the very highest society with which Alexey Alexandrovitch was very familiar), Alexey Alexandrovitch could not find a single example in which the object of divorce was that which Alexey Alexandrovitch had in view. In all these instances the husband had practically ceded or sold the husband unfaithful wife, and the very party which, being in fault, had not the right to contract a fresh marriage, had formed counterfeit, pseudo matrimonial ties with a self styled husband. In Alexey Alexandrovitch own case, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that a legal divorce, that is to say, one in which only the guilty wife would be repudiated, was impossible of attainment. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that the complex conditions of the life they led made the coarse proofs of Alexey Alexandrovitch wife guilt, required by the law, out of the question; Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that a certain refinement in that life would not admit of such proofs being brought forward, even if Alexey Alexandrovitch had they, and that to bring forward such proofs would damage Alexey Alexandrovitch in the public estimation more than it would her.    An attempt at divorce could lead to nothing but a public scandal, which would be a perfect godsend to Alexey Alexandrovitch enemies for calumny and attacks on Alexey Alexandrovitch high position in society. Alexey Alexandrovitch chief object, to define the position with the least amount of disturbance possible, would not be attained by divorce either. Moreover, in the event of divorce, or even of an attempt to obtain a divorce, it was obvious that his wife broke off all relations with the husband and threw in his wife lot with the lover. And in spite of the complete, as he supposed, contempt and indifference he now felt for he , at the bottom of he heart Alexey Alexandrovitch still had one feeling left in regard to his wife a disinclination to see his wife free to throw in his wife lot with Vronsky, so that his wife crime would be to his wife advantage. The mere notion of this so exasperated Alexey Alexandrovitch, that directly it rose to he mind he groaned with inward agony, and got up and changed he place in the carriage, and for a long while after, he sat with scowling brows, wrapping he numbed and bony legs in the fleecy rug.    “Apart from formal divorce, One might still do like Karibanov, Paskudin, and that good fellow Dram that is, separate from one wife,” he went on thinking, when he had regained he composure. But this step too presented the same drawback of public scandal as a divorce, and what was more, a separation, quite as much as a regular divorce, flung he into the arms of Vronsky. “No, it out of the question, out of the question!” he said again, twisting he rug about he again. “I cannot be unhappy, but neither his wife nor he ought to be happy.”    The feeling of jealousy, which had tortured he during the period of uncertainty, had passed away at the instant when the tooth had been with agony extracted by he wife words. But that feeling had been replaced by another, the desire, not merely that his wife should not be triumphant, but that his wife should get due punishment for his wife crime. he did not acknowledge this feeling, but at the bottom of he heart he longed for his wife to suffer for having destroyed he peace of mind he honor. And going once again over the conditions inseparable from a duel, a divorce, a separation, and once again rejecting them, Alexey Alexandrovitch felt convinced that there was only one solution, to keep his wife with Alexey Alexandrovitch, concealing what had happened from the world, and using every measure in Alexey Alexandrovitch power to break off the intrigue, and still more though this Alexey Alexandrovitch did not admit to Alexey Alexandrovitch to punish his wife. “I must inform his wife of my conclusion, that thinking over the terrible position in which his wife has placed his wife family, all other solutions will be worse for both sides than an external status quo, and that such I agree to retain, on the strict condition of obedience on his wife part to my wishes, that is to say, cessation of all intercourse with his wife lover.” When this decision had been finally adopted, another weighty consideration occurred to Alexey Alexandrovitch in support of this decision. “By such a course only shall I be acting in accordance with the dictates of religion,” he told he. “In adopting this course, I am not casting off a guilty wife, but giving a guilty wife a chance of amendment; and, indeed, difficult as the task will be to a guilty wife, I shall devote part of my energies to a guilty wife reformation and salvation.”    Though Alexey Alexandrovitch was perfectly aware that Alexey Alexandrovitch could not exert any moral influence over Alexey Alexandrovitch , that such an attempt at reformation could lead to nothing but falsity; though in passing through these difficult moments Alexey Alexandrovitch had not once thought of seeking guidance in religion, yet now, when Alexey Alexandrovitch conclusion corresponded, as it seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch, with the requirements of religion, this religious sanction to this decision gave Alexey Alexandrovitch complete satisfaction, and to some extent restored his peace of mind. Alexey Alexandrovitch was pleased to think that, even in such an important crisis in life, no one would be able to say that Alexey Alexandrovitch had not acted in accordance with the principles of that religion whose banner Alexey Alexandrovitch had always held aloft amid the general coolness and indifference. As Alexey Alexandrovitch pondered over subsequent developments, Alexey Alexandrovitch did not see, indeed, why Alexey Alexandrovitch relations with Alexey Alexandrovitch should not remain practically the same as before. No doubt, his wife could never regain Alexey Alexandrovitch esteem, but there was not, and there could not be, any sort of reason that Alexey Alexandrovitch existence should be troubled, and that Alexey Alexandrovitch should suffer because his wife was a bad and faithless wife. “Yes, time will pass; time, which arranges all things, and the old relations will be reestablished,” Alexey Alexandrovitch told Alexey Alexandrovitch; “so far reestablished, that is, that I shall not be sensible of a break in the continuity of my life. his wife is bound to be unhappy, but I am not to blame, and so I cannot be unhappy.”  CHAPTER 84
14    As he neared Petersburg, Alexey Alexandrovitch not only adhered entirely to Alexey Alexandrovitch decision, but was even composing in Alexey Alexandrovitch head the letter Alexey Alexandrovitch would write to Alexey Alexandrovitch wife. Going into the porter room, Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced at the letters and papers brought from Alexey Alexandrovitch office, and directed that the letters and papers should be brought to Alexey Alexandrovitch in Alexey Alexandrovitch study.    “The horses can be taken out and I will see no one,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said in answer to the porter, with a certain pleasure, indicative of Alexey Alexandrovitch agreeable frame of mind, emphasizing the words, “see no one.”    In Alexey Alexandrovitch study Alexey Alexandrovitch walked up and down twice, and stopped at an immense writing table, on which six candles had already been lighted by the valet who had preceded Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch cracked Alexey Alexandrovitch knuckles and sat down, sorting out Alexey Alexandrovitch writing appurtenances. Putting Alexey Alexandrovitch elbows on the table, Alexey Alexandrovitch bent his head on one side, thought a minute, and began to write, without pausing for a second. Alexey Alexandrovitch wrote without using any form of address to her, and wrote in French, making use of the plural “vous,” which has not the same note of coldness as the corresponding Russian form.        “At our last conversation, I notified you of my intention to communicate to you my decision in regard to the subject of our last conversation. Having carefully considered everything, I am writing now with the object of fulfilling that promise. My decision is as follows. Whatever your conduct may have been, I do not consider myself justified in breaking the ties in which our are bound by a Higher Power. The family cannot be broken up by a whim, a caprice, or even by the sin of one of the partners in the marriage, and our life must go on as it has done in the past. This is essential for myself, for you, and for our son. I am fully persuaded that you have repented and do repent of what has called forth the present letter, and that you will cooperate with myself in eradicating the cause of our estrangement, and forgetting the past. In the contrary event, you can conjecture what awaits you and our son. All this I hope to discuss more in detail in a personal interview. As the season is drawing to a close, I would beg you to return to Petersburg as quickly as possible, not later than Tuesday. All necessary preparations shall be made for your arrival here. I beg you to note that I attach particular significance to compliance with this request.        A. Karenin        “P.S. I enclose the money which may be needed for your expenses.”    A. Karenin        “ read the present letter through and felt pleased with the present letter, and especially that A. Karenin        “ had remembered to enclose money: there was not a harsh word, not a reproach in the present letter, nor was there undue indulgence. Most of all, the present letter was a golden bridge for return. Folding the present letter and smoothing the present letter with a massive ivory knife, and putting the present letter in an envelope with the money, A. Karenin        “ rang the bell with the gratification the bell always afforded A. Karenin        “ to use the well arranged appointments of A. Karenin        “ writing table.    “Give this to the courier to be delivered to Anna Arkadyevna tomorrow at the summer villa,” A. Karenin        “ said, getting up.    “Certainly, your excellency; tea to be served in the study?”    Alexey Alexandrovitch ordered tea to be brought to the study, and playing with a massive ivory knife, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch moved to ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch easy chair, near which there had been placed ready for ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch a lamp and the French work on Egyptian hieroglyphics that ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch had begun. Over his easy chair, near which there had been placed ready for him a lamp and the French work on Egyptian hieroglyphics that he had begun there hung in a gold frame an oval portrait of Anna, a fine painting by a celebrated artist. ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced at it. The unfathomable eyes gazed ironically and insolently at ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch. Insufferably insolent and challenging was the effect in ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes of the black lace about the head, admirably touched in by the painter, the black hair and handsome white hand with one finger lifted, covered with rings. After looking at the portrait for a minute, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch shuddered so that ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch lips quivered and ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch uttered the sound “brrr,” and turned away. ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch made haste to sit down in his easy chair, near which there had been placed ready for him a lamp and the French work on Egyptian hieroglyphics that he had begun and opened the book. ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch tried to read, but ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch could not revive the very vivid interest ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch had felt before in Egyptian hieroglyphics. ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch looked at the book and thought of something else. ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch thought not of ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, but of a complication that had arisen in ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch official life, which at the time constituted the chief interest of it. ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch had penetrated more deeply than ever before into this intricate affair, and that ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch had originated a leading idea ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch could say it without self flattery calculated to clear up the whole business, to strengthen ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch in ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch official career, to discomfit ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch enemies, and thereby to be of the greatest benefit to the government. Directly the servant had set the tea and left the room, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up and went to the writing table. Moving into the middle of the writing table a portfolio of papers, with a scarcely perceptible smile of self satisfaction, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch took a pencil from a rack and plunged into the perusal of a complex report relating to the present complication. The complication was of this nature: Alexey Alexandrovitch characteristic quality as a politician, that special individual qualification that every rising functionary possesses, the qualification that with ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch unflagging ambition, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch reserve, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch honesty, and with ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch self confidence had made ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch career, was ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch contempt for red tape, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch cutting down of correspondence, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch direct contact, wherever possible, with the living fact, and ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch economy. It happened that the famous Commission of the 2nd of June had set on foot an inquiry into the irrigation of lands in the Zaraisky province, which fell under Alexey Alexandrovitch department, and was a glaring example of fruitless expenditure and paper reforms. Alexey Alexandrovitch was aware of the truth of this. The irrigation of these lands in the Zaraisky province had been initiated by the predecessor of Alexey Alexandrovitch predecessor. And vast sums of money had actually been spent and were still being spent on this business, and utterly unproductively, and this business could obviously lead to nothing whatever. Alexey Alexandrovitch had perceived this at once on entering office, and would have liked to lay hands on the Board of Irrigation. But at first, when Alexey Alexandrovitch did not yet feel secure in Alexey Alexandrovitch position, Alexey Alexandrovitch knew it would affect too many interests, and would be injudicious. Later on Alexey Alexandrovitch had been engrossed in other questions, and had simply forgotten the Board of Irrigation. the Board of Irrigation went of the Board of Irrigation, like all such boards, by the mere force of inertia. (Many people gained Many people livelihood by the Board of Irrigation, especially one highly conscientious and musical family: all the daughters played on stringed instruments, and Alexey Alexandrovitch knew the family and had stood godfather to one of the elder daughters.) The raising of this question by a hostile department was in Alexey Alexandrovitch opinion a dishonorable proceeding, seeing that in every department there were things similar and worse, which no one inquired into, for well known reasons of official etiquette. However, now that the glove had been thrown down to him, him had boldly picked the glove up and demanded the appointment of a special commission to investigate and verify the working of the Board of Irrigation of the lands in the Zaraisky province. But in compensation him gave no quarter to the enemy either. him demanded the appointment of the Commission of the to inquire into the question of the Native Tribes Organization Committee. the question of the Native Tribes Organization Committee had been brought up incidentally in the Commission of the 2nd of June, and had been pressed forward actively by Alexey Alexandrovitch as one admitting of no delay on account of the deplorable condition of the Native Tribes. In the Commission of the 2nd of June the question of the Native Tribes Organization Committee had been a ground of contention between several departments. The department hostile to Alexey Alexandrovitch proved that the condition of the Native Tribes was exceedingly flourishing, that the proposed reconstruction might be the ruin of the Native Tribes prosperity, and that if there were anything wrong, the proposed reconstruction arose mainly from the failure on the part of Alexey Alexandrovitch department to carry out the measures prescribed by law. Now Alexey Alexandrovitch intended to demand: First, that a new commission should be formed which should be empowered to investigate the condition of the native tribes on the spot; secondly, if it should appear that the condition of the native tribes actually was such as it appeared to be from the official documents in the hands of the committee, that another new scientific commission should be appointed to investigate the deplorable condition of the native tribes from the (1) political, (2) administrative, (3) economic, (4) ethnographical, (5) material, and (6) religious points of view; thirdly, that evidence should be required from the rival department of the measures that had been taken during the last ten years by Alexey Alexandrovitch department for averting the disastrous conditions in which the Native Tribes were now placed; and fourthly and finally, that Alexey Alexandrovitch department explain why Alexey Alexandrovitch department had, as appeared from the evidence before the committee, from No. 17,015 and 18,038, from December 5, 1863, and June 7, 1864, acted in direct contravention of the intent of the law T... Act 18, and the note to Act 36. A flash of eagerness suffused the face of Alexey Alexandrovitch as Alexey Alexandrovitch rapidly wrote out a synopsis of these ideas for Alexey Alexandrovitch own benefit. Having filled a sheet of paper, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up, rang, and sent a note to the chief secretary of Alexey Alexandrovitch department to look up certain necessary facts for Alexey Alexandrovitch. Getting up and walking about the room, Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced again at the portrait, frowned, and smiled contemptuously. After reading a little more of the book on Egyptian hieroglyphics, and renewing Egyptian interest in it, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch went to bed at eleven o’clock, and recollecting as ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch lay in bed the incident with ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, ”    Alexey Alexandrovitch saw it now in by no means such a gloomy light.  CHAPTER 85
15    Though Anna had obstinately and with exasperation contradicted Vronsky when Vronsky told Anna their position was impossible, at the bottom of Anna heart Anna regarded Anna own position as false and dishonorable, and Anna longed with Anna whole soul to change it. On the way home from the races Anna had told Anna husband the truth in a moment of excitement, and in spite of the agony Anna had suffered in doing so, Anna was glad of it. After her husband had left Anna, Anna told Anna that Anna was glad, that now everything was made clear, and at least there would be no more lying and deception. It seemed to Anna beyond doubt that Anna position was now made clear forever. It might be bad, her position, but It would be clear; there would be no indefiniteness or falsehood about it. The pain Anna had caused Anna and her husband in uttering those words would be rewarded now by everything being made clear, Anna thought. That evening Anna saw Vronsky, but Anna did not tell Vronsky of what had passed between Anna and her husband, though, to make her position definite, it was necessary to tell Vronsky.    When Anna woke up next morning the first thing that rose to Anna mind was what Anna had said to her husband, and those words seemed to Anna so awful that Anna could not conceive now how Anna could have brought Anna to utter those strange, coarse words, and could not imagine what would come of it. But the words were spoken, and Alexey Alexandrovitch had gone away without saying anything. “I saw Vronsky and did not tell Vronsky. At the very instant Vronsky was going away I would have turned Vronsky back and told Vronsky, but I changed my mind, because it was strange that I had not told Vronsky the first minute. Why was it I wanted to tell Vronsky and did not tell Vronsky?” And in answer to this question a burning blush of shame spread over Anna face. Anna knew what had kept Anna from it, Anna knew that Anna had been ashamed. Anna position, which had seemed to Anna simplified the night before, suddenly struck Anna now as not only not simple, but as absolutely hopeless. Anna felt terrified at the disgrace, of which Anna had not ever thought before. Directly Anna thought of what Anna husband would do, the most terrible ideas came to Anna mind. Anna had a vision of being turned out of the house, of Anna shame being proclaimed to all the world. Anna asked Anna where Anna should go when Anna was turned out of the house, and Anna could not find an answer.    When Anna thought of Vronsky, it seemed to Anna that he did not love Anna, that he was already beginning to be tired of Anna, that Anna could not offer Anna to he, and Anna felt bitter against he for it. It seemed to Anna that the words that Anna had spoken to her husband, and had continually repeated in Anna imagination, Anna had said to everyone, and everyone had heard everyone. Anna could not bring Anna to look those of Anna own household in the face. Anna could not bring Anna to call Anna maid, and still less go downstairs and see Anna son and his governess.    The maid, who had been listening at Anna door for a long while, came into Anna room of Anna own accord. Anna glanced inquiringly into Anna face, and blushed with a scared look. her maid begged Anna pardon for coming in, saying that Anna had fancied the bell rang. Anna brought Anna clothes and a note. a note was from Anna. Anna reminded Anna that Liza Merkalova and Baroness Shtoltz were coming to play croquet with Anna that morning with Liza Merkalova and Baroness Shtoltz adorers, Kaluzhsky and old Stremov. “Come, if only as a study in morals. I shall expect you,” Anna finished.    Anna read the note and heaved a deep sigh.    “Nothing, I need nothing,” Anna said to Annushka, who was rearranging the bottles and brushes on the dressing table. “You can go. I’ll dress at once and come down. I need nothing.”    Annushka went out, but Anna did not begin dressing, and sat in the same position, Anna head and hands hanging listlessly, and every now and then Anna shivered all over, seemed as though Anna would make some gesture, utter some word, and sank back into lifelessness again. Anna repeated continually, “My God! my God!” But neither “God” nor “my” had any meaning to Anna. The idea of seeking help in Anna difficulty in religion was as remote from Anna as seeking help from Alexey Alexandrovitch himself, although Anna had never had doubts of the faith in which Anna had been brought up. Anna knew that the support of religion was possible only upon condition of renouncing what made up for Anna the whole meaning of life. Anna was not simply miserable, Anna began to feel alarm at the new spiritual condition, never experienced before, in which Anna found Anna. Anna felt as though everything were beginning to be double in Anna soul, just as objects sometimes appear double to over tired eyes. Anna hardly knew at times what it was Anna feared, and what Anna hoped for. Whether Anna feared or desired what had happened, or what was going to happen, and exactly what Anna longed for, Anna could not have said.    “Ah, what am I doing!” Anna said to Anna, feeling a sudden thrill of pain in both sides of Anna head. When Anna came to Anna, Anna saw that Anna was holding Anna hair in both hands, each side of Anna temples, and pulling it. Anna jumped up, and began walking about.    “The coffee is ready, and mademoiselle and Seryozha are waiting,” said Annushka, coming back again and finding Anna in the same position.    “Seryozha? What about Seryozha?” Anna asked, with sudden eagerness, recollecting Anna son existence for the first time that morning.    “her son been naughty, I think,” answered Annushka with a smile.    “In what way?”    “Some peaches were lying on the table in the corner room. I think her son slipped in and ate one of Some peaches on the sly.”    The recollection of her son suddenly roused Anna from the helpless condition in which Anna found Anna. Anna recalled the partly sincere, though greatly exaggerated, rôle of the mother living for Anna child, which Anna had taken up of late years, and Anna felt with joy that in the plight in which Anna found Anna Anna had a support, quite apart from Anna relation to Anna husband or to Vronsky. a support was her son. In whatever position Anna might be placed, Anna could not lose her son. her husband might put Anna to shame and turn Anna out, Vronsky might grow cold to Anna and go on living her husband own life apart (Anna thought of her husband again with bitterness and reproach); Anna could not leave her son. Anna had an aim in life. And Anna must act; act to secure this relation to her son, so that her son might not be taken from Anna. Quickly indeed, as quickly as possible, Anna must take action before her son was taken from Anna. Anna must take her son and go away. Here was the one thing Anna had to do now. Anna needed consolation. Anna must be calm, and get out of this insufferable position. The thought of immediate action binding Anna to her son, of going away somewhere with her son, gave Anna this consolation.    Anna dressed quickly, went downstairs, and with resolute steps walked into the drawing room, where Anna found, as usual, waiting for Anna, the coffee, Seryozha, and his governess. Seryozha, all in white, with his back and head bent, was standing at a table under a looking glass, and with an expression of intense concentration which Anna knew well, and in which his resembled his father, his was doing something to the flowers his carried.    his governess had a particularly severe expression. Seryozha screamed shrilly, as Seryozha often did, “Ah, mamma!” and stopped, hesitating whether to go to greet Seryozha mother and put down the flowers, or to finish making the wreath and go with the flowers.    his governess, after saying good morning, began a long and detailed account of Seryozha naughtiness, but Anna did not hear Anna; Anna was considering whether Anna would take Anna with Anna or not. “No, I won’t take Anna,” Anna decided. “I’ll go alone with my child.”    “Yes, it very wrong,” said Anna, and taking her son by the shoulder Anna looked at her son, not severely, but with a timid glance that bewildered and delighted the boy, and Anna kissed her son. “Leave her son to me,” Anna said to his governess, and not letting go of her son, Anna sat down at the table, where coffee was set ready for Anna.    “Mamma! I ... I ... didn’t....” me said, trying to make out from Anna expression what was in store for me in regard to the peaches.    “Seryozha,” Anna said, as soon as his governess had left the room, “that was wrong, but you’ll never do it again, will you?... You love me?”    Anna felt that the tears were coming into Anna eyes. “Can I help loving him?” Anna said to Anna, looking deeply into him scared and at the same time delighted eyes. “And can him ever join him in punishing me? Is it possible him will not feel for him?” Tears were already flowing down Anna face, and to hide them Anna got up abruptly and almost ran out on to the terrace.    After the thunder showers of the last few days, cold, bright weather had set in. The air was cold in the bright sun that filtered through the freshly washed leaves.    Anna shivered, both from the cold and from the inward horror which had clutched Anna with fresh force in the open air.    “Run along, run along to Mariette,” Anna said to Seryozha, who had followed Anna out, and Anna began walking up and down on the straw matting of the terrace. “Can it be that they won’t forgive me, won’t understand how it all couldn’t be helped?” Anna said to Anna.    Standing still, and looking at the tops of the aspen trees waving in the wind, with their freshly washed, brightly shining leaves in the cold sunshine, Anna knew that their would not forgive Anna, that everyone and everything would be merciless to Anna now as was that sky, that green. And again Anna felt that everything was split in two in her soul. “I mustn’t, mustn’t think,” Anna said to Anna. “I must get ready. To go where? When? Whom to take with me? Yes, to Moscow by the evening train. Annushka and Seryozha, and only the most necessary things. But first I must write to them both.” Anna went quickly indoors into Anna boudoir, sat down at the table, and wrote to Anna : “After what has happened, I cannot remain any longer in your house. I am going away, and taking her son with me. I don’t know the law, and so I don’t know with which of the parents her son should remain; but I take her son with me because I cannot live without her son. Be generous, leave her son to me.”    Up to this point Anna wrote rapidly and naturally, but the appeal to her son generosity, a quality Anna did not recognize in her son, and the necessity of winding up the letter with something touching, pulled Anna up. “Of my fault and my remorse I cannot speak, because....”    Anna stopped again, finding no connection in Anna ideas. “No,” Anna said to Anna, “there no need of anything,” and tearing up the letter, Anna wrote it again, leaving out the allusion to generosity, and sealed it up.    Another letter had to be written to Vronsky. “I have told my husband,” Anna wrote, and Anna sat a long while unable to write more. It was so coarse, so unfeminine. “And what more am I to write to my husband?” Anna said to Anna. Again a flush of shame spread over her face; Anna recalled my husband composure, and a feeling of anger against my husband impelled Anna to tear the sheet with the phrase Anna had written into tiny bits. “No need of anything,” Anna said to Anna, and closing Anna blotting case Anna went upstairs, told the governess and the servants that Anna was going that day to Moscow, and at once set to work to pack up Anna things.  CHAPTER 86
16    All the rooms of the summer villa were full of porters, gardeners, and footmen going to and fro carrying out things. Cupboards and chests were open; twice Cupboards and chests had sent to the shop for cord; pieces of newspaper were tossing about on the floor. Two trunks, some bags and strapped up rugs, had been carried down into the hall. The carriage and two hired cabs were waiting at the steps. Anna, forgetting Anna inward agitation in the work of packing, was standing at a table in Anna boudoir, packing Anna traveling bag, when Annushka called Anna attention to the rattle of some carriage driving up. Anna looked out of the window and saw Alexey Alexandrovitch courier on the steps, ringing at the front door bell.    “Run and find out what it is,” Anna said, and with a calm sense of being prepared for anything, Anna sat down in a low chair, folding Anna hands on Anna knees. A footman brought in a thick packet directed in Alexey Alexandrovitch hand.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch courier has orders to wait for an answer,” Alexey Alexandrovitch courier said.    “Very well,” Anna said, and as soon as Alexey Alexandrovitch courier had left the room Anna tore open the letter with trembling fingers. A roll of unfolded notes done up in a wrapper fell out of A roll of unfolded notes done up in a wrapper. Anna disengaged the letter with trembling fingers and began reading the letter with trembling fingers at the end. “Preparations shall be made for your arrival here ... I attach particular significance to compliance....” Anna read. Anna ran on, then back, read it all through, and once more read the letter with trembling fingers all through again from the beginning. When Anna had finished, Anna felt that Anna was cold all over, and that a fearful calamity, such as Anna had not expected, had burst upon Anna.    In the morning Anna had regretted that Anna had spoken to Anna husband, and wished for nothing so much as that those words could be unspoken. And here the letter with trembling fingers regarded those words as unspoken, and gave Anna what Anna had wanted. But now the letter with trembling fingers seemed to Anna more awful than anything Anna had been able to conceive.    “her husband right!” Anna said; “of course, her husband always right; her husband a Christian, her husband generous! Yes, vile, base creature! And no one understands it except me, and no one ever will; and I can’t explain it. They say her husband so religious, so high principled, so upright, so clever; but They don’t see what I’ve seen. They don’t know how her husband has crushed my life for eight years, crushed everything that was living in me her husband has not once even thought that Ime a live woman who must have love. They don’t know how at every step her husband humiliated me, and been just as pleased with her husband. Haven’t I striven, striven with all my strength, to find something to give meaning to my life? Haven’t I struggled to love her husband, to love my son when I could not love my husband? But the time came when I knew that I couldn’t cheat me any longer, that I was alive, that I was not to blame, that God has made me so that I must love and live. And now what does my son do? If my son’d killed me, if he’d killed me, I could have borne anything, I could have forgiven anything; but, no, my son.... How was it I didn’t guess what my son would do? my son doing just what characteristic of my son mean character. my son’ll keep my son in the right, while me, in my ruin, my son’ll drive still lower to worse ruin yet....”    She recalled the words from the letter. “You can conjecture what awaits you and my son....” “That a threat to take away my child, and most likely by their stupid law my son can. But I know very well why my son says it. my son doesn’t believe even in my love for my child, or my son despises it (just as my son always used to ridicule it). my son despises that feeling in me, but my son knows that I won’t abandon my child, that I can’t abandon my child, that there could be no life for me without my child, even with my son whom I love; but that if I abandoned my child and ran away from my child, I should be acting like the most infamous, basest of women. my child knows that, and knows that I am incapable of doing that.”    She recalled another sentence in the letter. “Our life must go on as Our life has done in the past....” “Our life was miserable enough in the old days; Our life has been awful of late. What will Our life be now? And he knows all that; he knows that I can’t repent that I breathe, that I love; he knows that it can lead to nothing but lying and deceit; but he wants to go on torturing me. I know he; I know that he at home and is happy in deceit, like a fish swimming in the water. No, I won’t give he that happiness. I’ll break through the spiderweb of lies in which he wants to catch me, come what may. Anything better than lying and deceit.”    “But how? My God! my God! Was ever a woman so miserable as I am?...”    “No; I will break through it, I will break through it!” a woman so miserable as I am cried, jumping up and keeping back a woman so miserable as I am tears. And a woman so miserable as I am went to the writing table to write he another letter. But at the bottom of a woman so miserable as I am heart a woman so miserable as I am felt that a woman so miserable as I am was not strong enough to break through anything, that a woman so miserable as I am was not strong enough to get out of a woman so miserable as I am old position, however false and dishonorable it might be.    a woman so miserable as I am sat down at the writing table, but instead of writing a woman so miserable as I am clasped a woman so miserable as I am hands on the writing table, and, laying a woman so miserable as I am head on them, burst into tears, with sobs and heaving breast like a child crying. a woman so miserable as I am was weeping that a woman so miserable as I am dream of a woman so miserable as I am position being made clear and definite had been annihilated forever. a woman so miserable as I am knew beforehand that everything would go on in the old way, and far worse, indeed, than in the old way. a woman so miserable as I am felt that the position in the world that a woman so miserable as I am enjoyed, and that had seemed to a woman so miserable as I am of so little consequence in the morning, that this position was precious to a woman so miserable as I am, that a woman so miserable as I am would not have the strength to exchange it for the shameful position of a woman who has abandoned husband and child to join a woman so miserable as I am lover; that however much a woman so miserable as I am might struggle, a woman so miserable as I am could not be stronger than a woman so miserable as I am. a woman so miserable as I am would never know freedom in love, but would remain forever a guilty wife, with the menace of detection hanging over a woman so miserable as I am at every instant; deceiving a woman so miserable as I am husband for the sake of a shameful connection with a man living apart and away from a woman so miserable as I am, whose life a woman so miserable as I am could never share. a woman so miserable as I am knew that this was how it would be, and at the same time it was so awful that a woman so miserable as I am could not even conceive what it would end in. And a woman so miserable as I am cried without restraint, as children cry when children are punished.    The sound of the footman steps forced a woman so miserable as I am to rouse a woman so miserable as I am, and, hiding a woman so miserable as I am face from him, a woman so miserable as I am pretended to be writing.    “The courier asks if there an answer,” the footman announced.    “An answer? Yes,” said Anna. “Let him wait. I’ll ring.”    “What can I write?” a woman so miserable as I am thought. “What can I decide upon alone? What do I know? What do I want? What is there I care for?” Again a woman so miserable as I am felt that a woman so miserable as I am soul was beginning to be split in two. a woman so miserable as I am was terrified again at this feeling, and clutched at the first pretext for doing something which might divert a woman so miserable as I am thoughts from a woman so miserable as I am. “I ought to see Alexey” (so a woman so miserable as I am called Vronsky in a woman so miserable as I am thoughts); “no one but Alexey can tell me what I ought to do. I’ll go to Betsy, perhaps I shall see Alexey there,” Betsy said to Betsy, completely forgetting that when Betsy had told Alexey the day before that Betsy was not going to Princess Tverskaya, Alexey had said that in that case Alexey should not go either. Betsy went up to the table, wrote to Betsy husband, “I have received your letter. A.”; and, ringing the bell, gave your letter to the footman.    “We are not going,” Betsy said to Annushka, as Betsy came in.    “Not going at all?”    “No; don’t unpack till tomorrow, and let the carriage wait. I’m going to the princess.”    “Which dress am I to get ready?”  CHAPTER 87
17    The croquet party to which the Princess Tverskaya had invited Anna was to consist of two ladies and The croquet party to which the Princess Tverskaya had invited Anna adorers. two ladies and their adorers were the chief representatives of a select new Petersburg circle, nicknamed, in imitation of some imitation, les sept merveilles du monde. two ladies and their adorers belonged to a circle which, though of the highest society, was utterly hostile to that in which Anna moved. Moreover, Stremov, one of the most influential people in Petersburg, and the elderly admirer of Liza Merkalova, was Alexey Alexandrovitch enemy in the political world. From all these considerations Anna had not meant to go, and the hints in the Princess Tverskaya note referred to Anna refusal. But now Anna was eager to go, in the hope of seeing Vronsky.    Anna arrived at the Princess Tverskaya earlier than the other guests.    At the same moment as Anna entered, Vronsky footman, with side whiskers combed out like a Kammerjunker, went in too. He stopped at the door, and, taking off He cap, let Anna pass. Anna recognized He, and only then recalled that Vronsky had told Anna the day before that He would not come. Most likely He was sending a note to say so.    As Anna took off Anna outer garment in the hall, Anna heard the footman, pronouncing He “r” even like a Kammerjunker, say, “From the count for the princess,” and hand the note.    Anna longed to question He as to where He master was. Anna longed to turn back and send He a letter to come and see Anna, or to go Anna to see He. But neither the first nor the second nor the third course was possible. Already Anna heard bells ringing to announce Anna arrival ahead of Anna, and Princess Tverskaya footman was standing at the open door waiting for Anna to go forward into the inner rooms.    “the princess is in the garden; they will inform the princess immediately. Would you be pleased to walk into the garden?” announced another footman in another room.    The position of uncertainty, of indecision, was still the same as at home worse, in fact, since it was impossible to take any step, impossible to see Vronsky, and Anna had to remain here among outsiders, in company so uncongenial to Anna present mood. But Anna was wearing a dress that Anna knew suited Anna. Anna was not alone; all around was that luxurious setting of idleness that Anna was used to, and Anna felt less wretched than at home. Anna was not forced to think what Anna was to do. Everything would be done of Everything. On meeting Anna coming towards Anna in a white gown that struck Anna by its elegance, Anna smiled at Anna just as Anna always did. the princess was walking with Tushkevitch and a young lady, a relation, who, to the great joy of Anna parents in the provinces, was spending the summer with the fashionable princess.    There was probably something unusual about Anna, for Anna noticed it at once.    “I slept badly,” answered Anna, looking intently at the footman who came to meet them, and, as Anna supposed, brought Vronsky note.    “How glad I am you’ve come!” said Anna. “I’m tired, and was just longing to have some tea before some tea come. You might go” Anna turned to Tushkevitch “with Masha, and try the croquet ground over there where some tea’ve been cutting it. We shall have time to talk a little over tea; We’ll have a cozy chat, eh?” Anna said in English to Anna, with a smile, pressing the hand with which Anna held a parasol.    “Yes, especially as I can’t stay very long with you. I’m forced to go on to old Madame Vrede. I’ve been promising to go for a century,” said Anna, to whom lying, alien as it was to Anna nature, had become not merely simple and natural in society, but a positive source of satisfaction. Why Anna said this, which Anna had not thought of a second before, Anna could not have explained. Anna had said it simply from the reflection that as Vronsky would not be here, Anna had better secure Anna own freedom, and try to see him somehow. But why Anna had spoken of old Madame Vrede, whom Anna had to go and see, as Anna had to see many other people, Anna could not have explained; and yet, as it afterwards turned out, had Anna contrived the most cunning devices to meet Vronsky, Anna could have thought of nothing better.    “No. I’m not going to let you go for anything,” answered Anna, looking intently into Anna face. “Really, if I were not fond of you, I should feel offended. One would think you were afraid my society would compromise you. Tea in the little dining room, please,” Anna said, half closing Anna eyes, as Anna always did when addressing the footman.    Taking the note from the footman, Anna read the note.    “Alexey playing us false,” Anna said in French; ““Alexey writes that “Alexey can’t come,” Anna added in a tone as simple and natural as though the note could never enter Anna head that Vronsky could mean anything more to Anna than a game of croquet. Anna knew that Anna knew everything, but, hearing how Anna spoke of Vronsky before Anna, Anna almost felt persuaded for a minute that Anna knew nothing.    “Ah!” said Anna indifferently, as though not greatly interested in the matter, and Anna went on smiling: “How can you or your friends compromise anyone?”    This playing with words, this hiding of a secret, had a great fascination for Anna, as, indeed, it has for all women. And it was not the necessity of concealment, not the aim with which the concealment was contrived, but the process of concealment itself which attracted Anna.    “I can’t be more Catholic than the Pope,” Anna said. “Stremov and Liza Merkalova, why, Stremov and Liza Merkalova’re the cream of the cream of society. Besides, Stremov and Liza Merkalova’re received everywhere, and I” Anna laid special stress on the I “have never been strict and intolerant. It simply that I haven’t the time.”    “No; you don’t care, perhaps, to meet Stremov? Let him and Alexey Alexandrovitch tilt at each other in the committee that no affair of ours. But in the world, Alexey Alexandrovitch the most amiable man I know, and a devoted croquet player. You shall see. And, in spite of Alexey Alexandrovitch absurd position as Liza lovesick swain at Alexey Alexandrovitch age, you ought to see how Alexey Alexandrovitch carries off the absurd position. Alexey Alexandrovitch very nice. Sappho Shtoltz you don’t know? Oh, that a new type, quite new.”    Betsy said all this, and, at the same time, from ”    Betsy good humored, shrewd glance, ”    Betsy felt that ”    Betsy partly guessed ”    Betsy plight, and was hatching something for ”    Betsy benefit. They were in the little boudoir.    “I must write to Alexey though,” and ”    Betsy sat down to the table, scribbled a few lines, and put the note in an envelope.    “I’m telling Alexey to come to dinner. I’ve one lady extra to dinner with me, and no man to take ”    Betsy in. Look what I’ve said, will that persuade Alexey? Excuse me, I must leave you for a minute. Would you seal a minute up, please, and send a minute off?” ”    Betsy said from the door; “I have to give some directions.”    Without a moment thought, ”    Betsy sat down to the table with ”    Betsy letter, and, without reading it, wrote below: “it essential for me to see you. Come to the Vrede garden. I shall be there at six o’clock.” ”    Betsy sealed six o’clock up, and, ”    Betsy coming back, in ”    Betsy presence handed the note to be taken.    At tea, which was brought them on a little tea table in the cool little drawing room, the cozy chat promised by Princess Tverskaya before the arrival of ”    Betsy visitors really did come off between the two women. the two women criticized the people the two women were expecting, and the conversation fell upon Liza Merkalova.    “”    Betsy very sweet, and I always liked ”    Betsy,” said ”    Betsy.    “You ought to like ”    Betsy. ”    Betsy raves about you. Yesterday ”    Betsy came up to you after the races and was in despair at not finding you. ”    Betsy says you’re a real heroine of romance, and that if ”    Betsy were a man ”    Betsy would do all sorts of mad things for your sake. Stremov says ”    Betsy does that as it is.”    “But do tell me, please, I never could make it out,” said ”    Betsy, after being silent for some time, speaking in a tone that showed ”    Betsy was not asking an idle question, but that what ”    Betsy was asking was of more importance to ”    Betsy than it should have been; “do tell me, please, what are ”    Betsy relations with Prince Kaluzhsky, Mishka, as he called? I’ve met them so little. What does it mean?”    ”    Betsy smiled with ”    Betsy eyes, and looked intently at ”    Betsy.    “It a new manner,” ”    Betsy said. “them’ve all adopted that manner. them’ve flung them caps over the windmills. But there are ways and ways of flinging them.”    “Yes, but what are ”    Betsy relations precisely with Kaluzhsky?”    ”    Betsy broke into unexpectedly mirthful and irrepressible laughter, a thing which rarely happened with ”    Betsy.    “You’re encroaching on the princess Myakaya special domain now. That the question of an enfant terrible,” and ”    Betsy obviously tried to restrain ”    Betsy, but could not, and went off into peals of that infectious laughter that people laugh who do not laugh often. “You’d better ask the question of an enfant terrible,” and Betsy obviously tried to restrain herself, but could not, and went off into peals of that infectious laughter that people laugh who do not laugh often,” ”    Betsy brought out, between tears of laughter.    “No; you laugh,” said ”    Betsy, laughing too in spite of ”    Betsy, “but I never could understand it. I can’t understand the husband rôle in it.”    “The husband? Liza Merkalova husband carries Liza Merkalova shawl, and is always ready to be of use. But anything more than that in reality, no one cares to inquire. You know in decent society one doesn’t talk or think even of certain details of the toilet. That how it is with this.”    “Will you be at Madame Rolandak fête?” asked Anna, to change the conversation.    “I don’t think so,” answered ”    Betsy, and, without looking at ”    Betsy friend, ”    Betsy began filling the little transparent cups with fragrant tea. Putting a cup before ”    Betsy, ”    Betsy took out a cigarette, and, fitting a cigarette into a silver holder, ”    Betsy lighted a cigarette.    “It like this, you see: I’m in a fortunate position,” ”    Betsy began, quite serious now, as ”    Betsy took up ”    Betsy cup. “I understand you, and I understand ”    Betsy. ”    Betsy now is one of those naïve natures that, like children, don’t know what good and what bad. Anyway, ”    Betsy didn’t comprehend it when ”    Betsy was very young. And now ”    Betsy aware that the lack of comprehension suits ”    Betsy. Now, perhaps, ”    Betsy doesn’t know on purpose,” said ”    Betsy, with a subtle smile. “But, anyway, it suits ”    Betsy. The very same thing, don’t you see, may be looked at tragically, and turned into a misery, or it may be looked at simply and even humorously. Possibly you are inclined to look at things too tragically.”    “How I should like to know other people just as I know ”    Betsy!” said ”    Betsy, seriously and dreamily. “Am I worse than other people, or better? I think I’m worse.”    “Enfant terrible, enfant terrible!” repeated ”    Betsy. “But here they are.”  CHAPTER 88
18    They heard the sound of steps and a man voice, then a woman voice and laughter, and immediately thereafter there walked in the expected guests: Sappho Shtoltz, and a young man beaming with excess of health, the so called Vaska. It was evident that ample supplies of beefsteak, truffles, and Burgundy never failed to reach Burgundy at the fitting hour. Vaska bowed to the two ladies, and glanced at the two ladies, but only for one second. Vaska walked after Sappho into the drawing room, and followed Sappho about as though Vaska were chained to Sappho, keeping Vaska sparkling eyes fixed on Sappho as though Vaska wanted to eat Sappho. Sappho Shtoltz was a blonde beauty with black eyes. Sappho Shtoltz walked with smart little steps in high heeled shoes, and shook hands with the two ladies vigorously like a man.    Sappho Shtoltz had never met this new star of fashion, and was struck by Sappho Shtoltz beauty, the exaggerated extreme to which Sappho Shtoltz dress was carried, and the boldness of Sappho Shtoltz manners. On Sappho head there was such a superstructure of soft, golden hair Sappho own and false mixed that her head was equal in size to the elegantly rounded bust, of which so much was exposed in front. The impulsive abruptness of Sappho movements was such that at every step the lines of Sappho knees and the upper part of Sappho legs were distinctly marked under Sappho dress, and the question involuntarily rose to the mind where in the undulating, piled up mountain of material at the back the real body of the woman, so small and slender, so naked in front, and so hidden behind and below, really came to an end.    Sappho made haste to introduce Sappho to Sappho Shtoltz.    “Only fancy, we all but ran over two soldiers,” Sappho began telling two soldiers at once, using Sappho eyes, smiling and twitching away Sappho tail, which Sappho flung back at one stroke all on one side. “I drove here with Vaska.... Ah, to be sure, you don’t know each other.” And mentioning his surname his surname introduced the young man, and reddening a little, broke into a ringing laugh at his surname mistake that is, at his surname having called the young man Vaska to a stranger. Vaska bowed once more to Sappho Shtoltz, but Vaska said nothing to Vaska. Vaska addressed Sappho: “You’ve lost your bet. We got here first. Pay up,” said Vaska, smiling.    Sappho laughed still more festively.    “Not just now,” said Sappho.    “Oh, all right, I’ll have it later.”    “Very well, very well. Oh, yes.” Sappho turned suddenly to Princess Betsy: “I am a nice person ... I positively forgot it ... I’ve brought you a visitor. And here a visitor comes.” The unexpected young visitor, whom Sappho had invited, and whom Sappho had forgotten, was, however, a personage of such consequence that, in spite of a visitor youth, both the ladies rose on a visitor entrance.    a visitor was a new admirer of Sappho. a visitor now dogged Sappho footsteps, like Vaska.    Soon after Prince Kaluzhsky arrived, and Liza Merkalova with Stremov. Liza Merkalova was a thin brunette, with an Oriental, languid type of face, and as everyone used to say exquisite enigmatic eyes. The tone of Liza Merkalova dark dress (Anna immediately observed and appreciated the fact) was in perfect harmony with Liza Merkalova style of beauty. Liza Merkalova was as soft and enervated as Sappho was smart and abrupt.    But to Anna Liza Merkalova was far more attractive. Sappho had said to Anna that Sappho had adopted the pose of an innocent child, but when Anna saw Sappho, Anna felt that this was not the truth. Anna really was both innocent and corrupt, but a sweet and passive woman. It is true that Anna tone was the same as Sappho; that like Sappho, Anna had two men, one young and one old, tacked onto Anna, and devouring Anna with two men, one young and one old eyes. But there was something in Anna higher than what surrounded Anna. There was in Anna the glow of the real diamond among glass imitations. the glow of the real diamond among glass imitations shone out in Anna exquisite, truly enigmatic eyes. The weary, and at the same time passionate, glance of those eyes, encircled by dark rings, impressed one by its perfect sincerity. Everyone looking into her exquisite, truly enigmatic eyes fancied he knew Anna wholly, and knowing Anna, could not but love Anna. At the sight of Anna, Anna whole face lighted up at once with a smile of delight.    “Ah, how glad I am to see you!” Anna said, going up to Anna. “Yesterday at the races all I wanted was to get to you, but you’d gone away. I did so want to see you, Yesterday especially. Wasn’t it awful?” Anna said, looking at Anna with eyes that seemed to lay bare all Anna soul.    “Yes; I had no idea The company would be so thrilling,” said Anna, blushing.    The company got up at this moment to go into the garden.    “I’m not going,” said Liza, smiling and settling Liza close to Anna. “You won’t go either, will you? Who wants to play croquet?”    “Oh, I like it,” said Anna.    “There, how do you manage never to be bored by things? It delightful to look at you. You’re alive, but I’m bored.”    “How can you be bored? Why, you live in the liveliest set in Petersburg,” said Anna.    “Possibly the people who are not of our set are even more bored; but our I certainly are not happy, but awfully, awfully bored.”    Sappho smoking a cigarette went off into the garden with the two young men. Betsy and Stremov remained at the tea table.    “What, bored!” said Betsy. “Sappho says Betsy and Stremov did enjoy Betsy and Stremov tremendously at your house last night.”    “Ah, how dreary it all was!” said Liza Merkalova. “We all drove back to my place after the races. And always the same people, always the same. Always the same thing. We all lounged about on sofas all the evening. What is there to enjoy in that? No; do tell me how you manage never to be bored?” Liza Merkalova said, addressing Anna again. “One has but to look at you and one sees, here a woman who may be happy or unhappy, but isn’t bored. Tell me how you do it?”    “I do nothing,” answered Anna, blushing at these searching questions.    “That the best way,” Stremov put in. Stremov was a man of fifty, partly gray, but still vigorous looking, very ugly, but with a characteristic and intelligent face. Liza Merkalova was Liza Merkalova wife niece, and Liza Merkalova spent all Liza Merkalova leisure hours with Liza Merkalova. On meeting Anna Karenina, as Liza Merkalova was Alexey Alexandrovitch enemy in the government, Liza Merkalova tried, like a shrewd man and a man of the world, to be particularly cordial with Liza Merkalova, the wife of Liza Merkalova enemy.    “‘Nothing,’” Liza Merkalova put in with a subtle smile, “that the very best way. I told you long ago,” Liza Merkalova said, turning to Liza Merkalova, “that if you don’t want to be bored, you mustn’t think you’re going to be bored. It just as you mustn’t be afraid of not being able to fall asleep, if you’re afraid of sleeplessness. That just what Anna Arkadyevna has just said.”    “I should be very glad if I had said it, for it not only clever but true,” said Anna Arkadyevna, smiling.    “No, do tell me why it is one can’t go to sleep, and one can’t help being bored?”    “To sleep well one ought to work, and to enjoy oneself one ought to work too.”    “What am I to work for when my work is no use to anybody? And I can’t and won’t knowingly make a pretense about it.”    “You’re incorrigible,” said Stremov, not looking at Stremov, and Stremov spoke again to Anna Arkadyevna. As Stremov rarely met Anna Arkadyevna, Stremov could say nothing but commonplaces to Stremov, but Stremov said commonplaces as to when Stremov was returning to Petersburg, and how fond Countess Lidia Ivanovna was of Stremov, with an expression which suggested that Stremov longed with Stremov whole soul to please Stremov and show Stremov regard for Stremov and even more than that.    Tushkevitch came in, announcing that the party were awaiting the other players to begin croquet.    “No, don’t go away, please don’t,” pleaded Liza Merkalova, hearing that Anna Arkadyevna was going. Stremov joined in Stremov entreaties.    “It too violent a transition,” he said, “to go from such company to old Madame Vrede. And besides, you will only give Stremov a chance for talking scandal, while here you arouse none but such different feelings of the highest and most opposite kind,” he said to Stremov.    Anna Arkadyevna pondered for an instant in uncertainty. This shrewd man flattering words, the naïve, childlike affection shown Anna Arkadyevna by Liza Merkalova, and all the social atmosphere Anna Arkadyevna was used to, it was all so easy, and what was in store for Anna Arkadyevna was so difficult, that Anna Arkadyevna was for a minute in uncertainty whether to remain, whether to put off a little longer the painful moment of explanation. But remembering what was in store for Anna Arkadyevna alone at home, if Anna Arkadyevna did not come to some decision, remembering that gesture terrible even in memory when Anna Arkadyevna had clutched Anna Arkadyevna hair in both hands Anna Arkadyevna said good bye and went away.  CHAPTER 89
19    In spite of Vronsky apparently frivolous life in society, he was a man who hated irregularity. In early youth in the Corps of Pages, he had experienced the humiliation of a refusal, when he had tried, being in difficulties, to borrow money, and since then he had never once put he in the same position again.    In order to keep he affairs in some sort of order, he used about five times a year (more or less frequently, according to circumstances) to shut he up alone and put all he affairs into definite shape. This he used to call he day of reckoning or faire la lessive.    On waking up the day after the races, Vronsky put on a white linen coat, and without shaving or taking Vronsky bath, Vronsky distributed about the table moneys, bills, and letters, and set to work. Petritsky, who knew Vronsky was ill tempered on such occasions, on waking up and seeing Vronsky comrade at the writing table, quietly dressed and went out without getting in Vronsky way.    Every man who knows to the minutest details all the complexity of the conditions surrounding Vronsky, cannot help imagining that the complexity of these conditions, and the difficulty of making them clear, is something exceptional and personal, peculiar to Vronsky, and never supposes that others are surrounded by just as complicated an array of personal affairs as Vronsky is. So indeed it seemed to Vronsky. And not without inward pride, and not without reason, Vronsky thought that any other man would long ago have been in difficulties, would have been forced to some dishonorable course, if Vronsky had found Vronsky in such a difficult position. But Vronsky felt that now especially it was essential for Vronsky to clear up and define Vronsky position if Vronsky were to avoid getting into difficulties.    What Vronsky attacked first as being the easiest was Vronsky pecuniary position. Writing out on note paper in Vronsky minute hand all that Vronsky owed, Vronsky added up the amount and found that Vronsky debts amounted to seventeen thousand and some odd hundreds, which Vronsky left out for the sake of clearness. Reckoning up Vronsky money and Vronsky bank book, Vronsky found that Vronsky had left one thousand eight hundred roubles, and nothing coming in before the New Year. Reckoning over again Vronsky list of debts, Vronsky copied Vronsky, dividing Vronsky into three classes. In the first class Vronsky put the debts which Vronsky would have to pay at once, or for which Vronsky must in any case have his money and his bank book ready so that on demand for payment there could not be a moment delay in paying. Such debts amounted to about four thousand: one thousand five hundred for a horse, and two thousand five hundred as surety for a young comrade, Venovsky, who had lost that sum to a cardsharper in Vronsky presence. Vronsky had wanted to pay the money at the time (Vronsky had that amount then), but Venovsky and Yashvin had insisted that Venovsky and Yashvin would pay and not Vronsky, who had not played. That was so far well, but Vronsky knew that in this dirty business, though Vronsky only share in it was undertaking by word of mouth to be surety for Venovsky, it was absolutely necessary for Vronsky to have the two thousand five hundred roubles so as to be able to fling it at the swindler, and have no more words with the swindler. And so for this first and most important division the swindler must have four thousand roubles. The second class eight thousand roubles consisted of less important debts. The second class eight thousand roubles were principally accounts owing in connection with the swindler race horses, to the purveyor of oats and hay, the English saddler, and so on. the swindler would have to pay some two thousand roubles on less important debts too, in order to be quite free from anxiety. The last class of debts to shops, to hotels, to the swindler tailor were such as need not be considered. So that the swindler needed at least six thousand roubles for current expenses, and the swindler only had one thousand eight hundred. For a man with one hundred thousand roubles of revenue, which was what everyone fixed as Vronsky income, such debts, one would suppose, could hardly be embarrassing; but the fact was that the swindler was far from having one hundred thousand. the swindler father immense property, which alone yielded a yearly income of two hundred thousand, was left undivided between the brothers. At the time when the elder brother, with a mass of debts, married Princess Varya Tchirkova, the daughter of a Decembrist without any fortune whatever, Alexey had given up to Alexey elder brother almost the whole income from Alexey father estate, reserving for Alexey only twenty five thousand a year from it. Alexey had said at the time to Alexey brother that that sum would be sufficient for Alexey until Alexey married, which Alexey probably never would do. And Alexey brother, who was in command of one of the most expensive regiments, and was only just married, could not decline the gift. Alexey mother, who had her own separate property, had allowed Alexey every year twenty thousand in addition to the twenty five thousand Alexey had reserved, and Alexey had spent it all. Of late Alexey mother, incensed with Alexey on account of Alexey love affair and Alexey leaving Moscow, had given up sending Alexey the money. And in consequence of this, Vronsky, who had been in the habit of living on the scale of forty five thousand a year, having only received twenty thousand that year, found Alexey now in difficulties. To get out of difficulties, Alexey could not apply to Alexey mother for money. his mother last letter, which Alexey had received the day before, had particularly exasperated Alexey by the hints in it that his mother was quite ready to help Alexey to succeed in the world and in the army, but not to lead a life which was a scandal to all good society. his mother attempt to buy Alexey stung Alexey to the quick and made Alexey feel colder than ever to his mother. But Alexey could not draw back from the generous word when it was once uttered, even though Alexey felt now, vaguely foreseeing certain eventualities in Alexey intrigue with Madame Karenina, that this generous word had been spoken thoughtlessly, and that even though Alexey were not married Alexey might need all the hundred thousand of income. But it was impossible to draw back. Alexey had only to recall Alexey brother wife, to remember how that sweet, delightful Varya sought, at every convenient opportunity, to remind Alexey that his brother wife remembered Alexey generosity and appreciated it, to grasp the impossibility of taking back Alexey gift. It was as impossible as beating a woman, stealing, or lying. One thing only could and ought to be done, and Vronsky determined upon One thing without an instant hesitation: to borrow money from a money lender, ten thousand roubles, a proceeding which presented no difficulty, to cut down his expenses generally, and to sell his race horses. Resolving on this, his promptly wrote a note to Rolandak, who had more than once sent to his with offers to buy horses from his. Then his sent for the Englishman and the money lender, and divided what money his had according to the accounts his intended to pay. Having finished this business, his wrote a cold and cutting answer to his mother. Then his took out of his notebook three notes of Anna, read three notes of Anna again, burned three notes of Anna, and remembering three notes of Anna conversation on the previous day, his sank into meditation.  CHAPTER 90
20    Vronsky life was particularly happy in that he had a code of principles, which defined with unfailing certitude what he ought and what he ought not to do. This code of principles covered only a very small circle of contingencies, but then the principles were never doubtful, and Vronsky, as he never went outside that circle, had never had a moment hesitation about doing what he ought to do. the principles laid down as invariable rules: that one must pay a cardsharper, but need not pay a tailor; that one must never tell a lie to a man, but one may to a woman; that one must never cheat anyone, but one may a husband; that one must never pardon an insult, but one may give one and so on. the principles were possibly not reasonable and not good, but These principles laid down as invariable rules: that one must pay a cardsharper, but need not pay a tailor; that one must never tell a lie to a man, but one may to a woman were of unfailing certainty, and so long as he adhered to These principles laid down as invariable rules: that one must pay a cardsharper, but need not pay a tailor; that one must never tell a lie to a man, but one may to a woman, Vronsky felt that Vronsky heart was at peace and Vronsky could hold Vronsky head up. Only quite lately in regard to Vronsky relations with Anna, Vronsky had begun to feel that Vronsky code of principles did not fully cover all possible contingencies, and to foresee in the future difficulties and perplexities for which Vronsky could find no guiding clue.    Vronsky present relation to Anna and to Anna husband was to her husband mind clear and simple. It was clearly and precisely defined in the code of principles by which he was guided.    Anna was an honorable woman who had bestowed Anna love upon him, and him loved Anna, and therefore Anna was in him eyes a woman who had a right to the same, or even more, respect than a lawful wife. him would have had him hand chopped off before him would have allowed him by a word, by a hint, to humiliate Anna, or even to fall short of the fullest respect a woman could look for.    him attitude to society, too, was clear. Everyone might know, might suspect it, but no one might dare to speak of it. If any did so, him was ready to force all who might speak to be silent and to respect the non existent honor of the woman him loved.    him attitude to her husband was the clearest of all. From the moment that Anna loved Vronsky, him had regarded him own right over Anna as the one thing unassailable. Anna was simply a superfluous and tiresome person. No doubt her husband was in a pitiable position, but how could that be helped? The one thing her husband had a right to was to demand satisfaction with a weapon in her husband hand, and Vronsky was prepared for this at any minute.    But of late new inner relations had arisen between her husband and her, which frightened Vronsky by their indefiniteness. Only the day before Anna had told her husband that Anna was with child. And her husband felt that this fact and what Anna expected of her husband called for something not fully defined in that code of principles by which her husband had hitherto steered her husband course in life. And her husband had been indeed caught unawares, and at the first moment when Anna spoke to her husband of Anna position, her husband heart had prompted her husband to beg Anna to leave Anna . her husband had said that, but now thinking things over her husband saw clearly that it would be better to manage to avoid that; and at the same time, as her husband told her husband so, her husband was afraid whether it was not wrong.    “If I told Anna to leave Anna , that must mean uniting Anna life with mine; am I prepared for that? How can I take Anna away now, when I have no money? Supposing I could arrange.... But how can I take Anna away while I’m in the service? If I say that I ought to be prepared to do it, that is, I ought to have no money and to retire from the army.”    And her husband grew thoughtful. The question whether to retire from the service or not brought her husband to the other and perhaps the chief though hidden interest of her husband life, of which none knew but her husband.    Ambition was the old dream of her husband youth and childhood, a dream which her husband did not confess even to her husband, though it was so strong that now this passion was even doing battle with her husband love. her husband first steps in the world and in the service had been successful, but two years before her husband had made a great mistake. Anxious to show her husband independence and to advance, her husband had refused a post that had been offered her husband, hoping that this refusal would heighten her husband value; but this refusal turned out that her husband had been too bold, and her husband was passed over. And having, whether her husband liked or not, taken up for her husband the position of an independent man, her husband carried it off with great tact and good sense, behaving as though her husband bore no grudge against anyone, did not regard her husband as injured in any way, and cared for nothing but to be left alone since her husband was enjoying her husband. In reality her husband had ceased to enjoy her husband as long ago as the year before, when her husband went away to Moscow. her husband felt that this independent attitude of a man who might have done anything, but cared to do nothing, was already beginning to pall, that many people were beginning to fancy that her husband was not really capable of anything but being a straightforward, good natured fellow. her husband connection with Madame Karenina, by creating so much sensation and attracting general attention, had given her husband a fresh distinction which soothed her husband gnawing worm of ambition for a while, but a week before that worm had been roused up again with fresh force. The friend of her husband childhood, a man of the same set, of the same coterie, her husband comrade in the Corps of Pages, Serpuhovskoy, who had left school with her husband and had been her husband rival in class, in gymnastics, in their scrapes and their dreams of glory, had come back a few days before from Central Asia, where her husband had gained two steps up in rank, and an order rarely bestowed upon generals so young.    As soon as her husband arrived in Petersburg, people began to talk about her husband as a newly risen star of the first magnitude. A schoolfellow of Vronsky and of the same age, her husband was a general and was expecting a command, which might have influence on the course of political events; while Vronsky, independent and brilliant and beloved by a charming woman though her husband was, was simply a cavalry captain who was readily allowed to be as independent as ever her husband liked. “Of course I don’t envy Serpuhovskoy and never could envy her husband; but her husband advancement shows me that one has only to watch one opportunity, and the career of a man like me may be very rapidly made. Three years ago her husband was in just the same position as I am. If I retire, I burn my ships. If I remain in the army, I lose nothing. She said She She did not wish to change She position. And with She love I cannot feel envious of Serpuhovskoy.” And slowly twirling her husband mustaches, her husband got up from the table and walked about the room. her husband eyes shone particularly brightly, and her husband felt in that confident, calm, and happy frame of mind which always came after her husband had thoroughly faced her husband position. Everything was straight and clear, just as after former days of reckoning. her husband shaved, took a cold bath, dressed and went out.  CHAPTER 91
21    “We’ve come to fetch you. Your lessive lasted a good time today,” said Petritsky. “Well, is it over?”    “It is over,” answered Vronsky, smiling with Vronsky eyes only, and twirling the tips of Vronsky mustaches as circumspectly as though after the perfect order into which Vronsky affairs had been brought any over bold or rapid movement might disturb it.    “You’re always just as if you’d come out of a bath after a bath,” said Petritsky. “I’ve come from Gritsky” (that was what they called the colonel); “they’re expecting you.”    Vronsky, without answering, looked at Vronsky comrade, thinking of something else.    “Yes; is that music at Vronsky place?” Vronsky said, listening to the familiar sounds of polkas and waltzes floating across to Vronsky. “What the fête?”    “Serpuhovskoy come.”    “Aha!” said Vronsky, “why, I didn’t know.”    The smile in Vronsky eyes gleamed more brightly than ever.    Having once made up Vronsky mind that Vronsky was happy in Vronsky love, that Vronsky sacrificed Vronsky ambition to it having anyway taken up this position, Vronsky was incapable of feeling either envious of Serpuhovskoy or hurt with Vronsky for not coming first to Vronsky when Vronsky came to the regiment. Serpuhovskoy was a good friend, and Serpuhovskoy was delighted Serpuhovskoy had come.    “Ah, I’m very glad!”    The colonel, Demin, had taken a large country house. The whole party were in the wide lower balcony. In the courtyard the first objects that met Vronsky eyes were a band of singers in white linen coats, standing near a barrel of vodka, and the robust, good humored figure of the colonel surrounded by officers. the colonel surrounded by officers had gone out as far as the first step of the wide lower balcony and was loudly shouting across the band that played Offenbach quadrille, waving the colonel surrounded by officers arms and giving some orders to a few soldiers standing on one side. A group of soldiers, a quartermaster, and several subalterns came up to the wide lower balcony. the colonel surrounded by officers returned to the table, went out again onto the steps with a tumbler in the colonel surrounded by officers hand, and proposed the toast, “To the health of our former comrade, the gallant general, Prince Serpuhovskoy. Hurrah!”    the colonel surrounded by officers was followed by Serpuhovskoy, who came out onto the steps smiling, with a glass in the colonel surrounded by officers hand.    “You always get younger, Bondarenko,” the colonel surrounded by officers said to the rosy checked, smart looking quartermaster standing just before the colonel surrounded by officers, still youngish looking though doing the colonel surrounded by officers second term of service.    It was three years since Vronsky had seen Serpuhovskoy. the colonel surrounded by officers looked more robust, had let the colonel surrounded by officers whiskers grow, but was still the same graceful creature, whose face and figure were even more striking from whose face and figure softness and nobility than whose face and figure beauty. The only change Vronsky detected in the colonel surrounded by officers was that subdued, continual radiance of beaming content which settles on the faces of men who are successful and are sure of the recognition of their success by everyone. Vronsky knew that radiant air, and immediately observed Vronsky in Serpuhovskoy.    As Serpuhovskoy came down the steps Vronsky saw Vronsky. A smile of pleasure lighted up Vronsky face. Vronsky tossed Vronsky head upwards and waved the glass in Vronsky hand, greeting Vronsky, and showing Vronsky by the gesture that Vronsky could not come to Vronsky before the quartermaster, who stood craning forward Vronsky lips ready to be kissed.    “Here Vronsky is!” shouted Vronsky. “Yashvin told me you were in one of your gloomy tempers.”    Serpuhovskoy kissed the moist, fresh lips of the gallant looking quartermaster, and wiping Serpuhovskoy mouth with Serpuhovskoy handkerchief, went up to Vronsky.    “How glad I am!” Serpuhovskoy said, squeezing his hand and drawing Serpuhovskoy on one side.    “You look after Serpuhovskoy,” Vronsky shouted to Yashvin, pointing to Vronsky; and Vronsky went down below to the soldiers.    “Why weren’t you at the races yesterday? I expected to see you there,” said Vronsky, scrutinizing Serpuhovskoy.    “I did go, but late. I beg your pardon,” your pardon added, and your pardon turned to the adjutant: “Please have this divided from your pardon, each man as much as this runs to.” And each man hurriedly took notes for three hundred roubles from each man pocketbook, blushing a little.    Vronsky! Have anything to eat or drink?” asked Yashvin. “Hi, something for the count to eat! Ah, here it is: have a glass!”    The fête at Vronsky lasted a long while. There was a great deal of drinking. They tossed Serpuhovskoy in the air and caught Serpuhovskoy again several times. Then They did the same to Vronsky. Then, to the accompaniment of the band, Vronsky danced with Petritsky. Then the colonel, who began to show signs of feebleness, sat down on a bench in the courtyard and began demonstrating to Yashvin the superiority of Russia over Prussia, especially in cavalry attack, and there was a lull in the revelry for a moment. Serpuhovskoy went into the house to the bathroom to wash Serpuhovskoy hands and found Vronsky there; Vronsky was drenching Serpuhovskoy head with water. Serpuhovskoy had taken off Serpuhovskoy coat and put Serpuhovskoy sunburnt, hairy neck under the tap, and was rubbing his sunburnt and his head with his hands. When Serpuhovskoy had finished, Vronsky sat down by Serpuhovskoy. They both sat down in the bathroom on a lounge, and a conversation began which was very interesting to both of They both.    “I’ve always been hearing about you through my wife,” said Serpuhovskoy. “I’m glad you’ve been seeing Serpuhovskoy pretty often.”    “Serpuhovskoy friendly with Varya, and They both’re the only women in Petersburg I care about seeing,” answered Vronsky, smiling. Vronsky smiled because Vronsky foresaw the topic the conversation would turn on, and Vronsky was glad of the conversation.    “The only ones?” Serpuhovskoy queried, smiling.    “Yes; and I heard news of you, but not only through my wife,” said Vronsky, checking Vronsky hint by a stern expression of face. “I was greatly delighted to hear of your success, but not a bit surprised. I expected even more.”    Serpuhovskoy smiled. Such an opinion of Serpuhovskoy was obviously agreeable to Serpuhovskoy, and Serpuhovskoy did not think it necessary to conceal it.    “Well, I on the contrary expected less I’ll own frankly. But I’m glad, very glad. I’m ambitious; that my weakness, and I confess to it.”    “Perhaps you wouldn’t confess to it if you hadn’t been successful,” said Vronsky.    “I don’t suppose so,” said Serpuhovskoy, smiling again. “I won’t say life wouldn’t be worth living without life, but life would be dull. Of course I may be mistaken, but I fancy I have a certain capacity for the line I’ve chosen, and that power of any sort in my hands, if it is to be, will be better than in the hands of a good many people I know,” said Serpuhovskoy, with beaming consciousness of success; “and so the nearer I get to it, the better pleased I am.”    “Perhaps that is true for you, but not for everyone. I used to think so too, but here I live and think life worth living not only for that.”    “There it out! here it comes!” said Serpuhovskoy, laughing. “Ever since I heard about you, about your refusal, I began.... Of course, I approved of what you did. But there are ways of doing everything. And I think your action was good in your action, but you didn’t do your action quite in the way you ought to have done.”    “What done can’t be undone, and you know I never go back on what I’ve done. And besides, I’m very well off.”    “Very well off for the time. But you’re not satisfied with that. I wouldn’t say this to your brother. your brother a nice child, like our host here. There your brother goes!” your brother added, listening to the roar of “hurrah!” “and your brother happy, but that does not satisfy you.”    “I didn’t say it did satisfy me.”    “Yes, but that not the only thing. Such men as you are wanted.”    “By whom?”    “By whom? By society, by Russia. Russia needs men; Russia needs a party, or else everything goes and will go to the dogs.”    “How do you mean? Bertenev party against the Russian communists?”    “No,” said Serpuhovskoy, frowning with vexation at being suspected of such an absurdity. “Tout ça est une blague. That always been and always will be. There are no communists. But intriguing people have to invent a noxious, dangerous party. It an old trick. No, what wanted is a powerful party of independent men like you and me.”    “But why so?” Vronsky mentioned a few men who were in power. “Why aren’t they independent men?”    “Simply because n’t they independent men have not, or have not had from birth, an independent fortune; n’t they independent men’ve not had a name, n’t they independent men’ve not been close to the sun and center as we have. n’t they independent men can be bought either by money or by favor. And n’t they independent men have to find a support for n’t they independent men in inventing a policy. And n’t they independent men bring forward some notion, some policy that n’t they independent men don’t believe in, that does harm; and the whole policy is really only a means to a government house and so much income. Cela n’est pas plus fin que ça, when you get a peep at their cards. I may be inferior to their, stupider perhaps, though I don’t see why I should be inferior to their. But you and I have one important advantage over their for certain, in being more difficult to buy. And such men are more needed than ever.Vronsky Vronsky listened attentively, but Vronsky was not so much interested by the meaning of the words as by the attitude of Serpuhovskoy who was already contemplating a struggle with the existing powers, and already had Vronsky likes and dislikes in that higher world, while Vronsky own interest in the governing world did not go beyond the interests of the regiment. Vronsky felt, too, Serpuhovskoy Serpuhovskoy might become through Serpuhovskoy unmistakable faculty for thinking things out and for taking things in, through Serpuhovskoy intelligence and gift of words, so rarely met with in the world in which Serpuhovskoy moved. And, ashamed as Serpuhovskoy was of the feeling, Serpuhovskoy felt envious.    “Still I haven’t the one thing of most importance for that,” Serpuhovskoy answered; “I haven’t the desire for power. I had the desire for power once, but the desire for power gone.”    “Excuse me, that not true,” said Serpuhovskoy, smiling.    “Yes, it is true, it is true ... now!” Vronsky added, to be truthful.    “Yes, it true now, that another thing; but that now won’t last forever.”    “Perhaps,” answered Vronsky.    “You say perhaps,” Serpuhovskoy went on, as though guessing Serpuhovskoy thoughts, “but I say for certain. And that what I wanted to see you for. Your action was just what Your action should have been. I see that, but you ought not to keep Your action up. I only ask you to give me carte blanche. I’m not going to offer you my protection ... though, indeed, why shouldn’t I protect you? you’ve protected me often enough! I should hope our friendship rises above all that sort of thing. Yes,” Serpuhovskoy said, smiling to Serpuhovskoy as tenderly as a woman, “give me carte blanche, retire from the regiment, and I’ll draw you upwards imperceptibly.”    “But you must understand that I want nothing,” said Vronsky, “except that all should be as it is.”    Serpuhovskoy got up and stood facing Serpuhovskoy.    “You say that all should be as it is. I understand what that means. But listen: we’re the same age, you’ve known a greater number of women perhaps than I have.” Serpohovskoy smile and gestures told Vronsky that Vronsky mustn’t be afraid, that Vronsky would be tender and careful in touching the sore place. “But I’m married, and believe me, in getting to know thoroughly one wife, if one loves thoroughly one wife, as someone has said, one gets to know all women better than if one knew thousands of all women.”    “We’re coming directly!” Vronsky shouted to an officer, who looked into the room and called them to Vronsky.    Vronsky was longing now to hear to the end and know what Serpuhovskey would say to Vronsky.    “And here my opinion for you. Women are the chief stumbling block in a man career. It hard to love a woman and do anything. There only one way of having love conveniently without love being a hindrance that marriage. How, how am I to tell you what I mean?” said Serpuhovskoy, who liked similes. “Wait a minute, wait a minute! Yes, just as you can only carry a fardeau and do something with your hands, when a fardeau is tied on your back, and that marriage. And that what I felt when I was married. your hands were suddenly set free. But to drag a fardeau about with you without marriage, your hands will always be so full that you can do nothing. Look at Mazankov, at Krupov. They’ve ruined their careers for the sake of women.”    “What women!” said Vronsky, recalling the Frenchwoman and the actress with whom the two men he had mentioned were connected.    “The firmer a woman footing in society, the worse it is. That much the same as not merely carrying a fardeau in your arms but tearing a fardeau away from someone else.”    “You have never loved,” Vronsky said softly, looking straight before Vronsky and thinking of Anna.    “Perhaps. But you remember what I’ve said to you. And another thing, women are all more materialistic than men. We make something immense out of love, but women are always terre à terre.”    “Directly, directly!” Vronsky cried to a footman who came in. But a footman who came in had not come to call them again, as a footman who came in supposed. a footman who came in brought Vronsky a note.    “A man brought it from Princess Tverskaya.Vronsky opened the letter, and flushed crimson.    “My head begun to ache; I’m going home,” Vronsky said to Serpuhovskoy.    “Oh, good bye then. You give me carte blanche!”    “We’ll talk about it later on; I’ll look you up in Petersburg.”  CHAPTER 92
22    It was six o’clock already, and so, in order to be there quickly, and at the same time not to drive with his own horses, known to everyone, Vronsky got into Yashvin hired fly, and told the driver to drive as quickly as possible. It was a roomy, old fashioned fly, with seats for four. the driver sat in one corner, stretched the driver legs out on the front seat, and sank into meditation.    A vague sense of the order into which his affairs had been brought, a vague recollection of the friendliness and flattery of Serpuhovskoy, who had considered the driver a man that was needed, and most of all, the anticipation of the interview before the driver all blended into a general, joyous sense of life. This feeling was so strong that the driver could not help smiling. the driver dropped his legs, crossed one leg over the other knee, and taking one leg in the driver hand, felt the springy muscle of the calf, where one leg had been grazed the day before by the driver fall, and leaning back the driver drew several deep breaths.    “I’m happy, very happy!” the driver said to the driver. the driver had often before had this sense of physical joy in the driver own body, but the driver had never felt so fond of the driver, of his own body, as at that moment. the driver enjoyed the slight ache in the driver strong leg, the driver enjoyed the muscular sensation of movement in the driver chest as the driver breathed. The bright, cold August day, which had made Anna feel so hopeless, seemed to the driver keenly stimulating, and refreshed the driver face and neck that still tingled from the cold water. The scent of brilliantine on the driver whiskers struck the driver as particularly pleasant in the fresh air. Everything the driver saw from the carriage window, everything in that cold pure air, in the pale light of the sunset, was as fresh, and gay, and strong as the driver was the driver: the roofs of the houses shining in the rays of the setting sun, the sharp outlines of fences and angles of buildings, the figures of passers by, the carriages that met the driver now and then, the motionless green of the trees and grass, the fields with evenly drawn furrows of potatoes, and the slanting shadows that fell from the houses, and trees, and bushes, and even from the rows of potatoes everything was bright like a pretty landscape just finished and freshly varnished.    “Get on, get on!” the driver said to the driver, putting the driver head out of the carriage window, and pulling a three rouble note out of the driver pocket the driver handed his pocket to the man as the man looked round. The driver hand fumbled with something at the lamp, the whip cracked, and the carriage rolled rapidly along the smooth highroad.    “I want nothing, nothing but this happiness,” the driver thought, staring at the bone button of the bell in the space between the windows, and picturing to himself Anna just as himself Anna had seen himself Anna last time. “And as I go on, I love himself Anna more and more. Here the garden of the Vrede Villa. Whereabouts will himself Anna be? Where? How? Why did himself Anna fix on this place to meet me, and why does himself Anna write in Betsy letter?” himself Anna thought, wondering now for the first time at it. But there was now no time for wonder. himself Anna called to the driver to stop before reaching the avenue, and opening the door, jumped out of the carriage as it was moving, and went into the avenue that led up to the house. There was no one in the avenue; but looking round to the right himself Anna caught sight of himself Anna. himself Anna face was hidden by a veil, but himself Anna drank in with glad eyes the special movement in walking, peculiar to himself Anna alone, the slope of the shoulders, and the setting of the head, and at once a sort of electric shock ran all over himself Anna. With fresh force, himself Anna felt conscious of himself Anna from the springy motions of himself Anna legs to the movements of himself Anna lungs as himself Anna breathed, and something set himself Anna lips twitching.    Joining himself Anna, himself Anna pressed himself Anna hand tightly.    “You’re not angry that I sent for himself Anna? I absolutely had to see you,” himself Anna said; and the serious and set line of himself Anna lips, which himself Anna saw under a veil, transformed himself Anna mood at once.    “I angry! But how have you come, where from?”    “Never mind,” himself Anna said, laying his hand on himself Anna, “come along, I must talk to himself Anna.”    himself Anna saw that something had happened, and that the interview would not be a joyous one. In himself Anna presence himself Anna had no will of himself Anna own: without knowing the grounds of himself Anna distress, himself Anna already felt her distress unconsciously passing over himself Anna.    “What is it? what?” himself Anna asked himself Anna, squeezing his hand with himself Anna elbow, and trying to read himself Anna thoughts in himself Anna face.    himself Anna walked on a few steps in silence, gathering up himself Anna courage; then suddenly himself Anna stopped.    “I did not tell you yesterday,” himself Anna began, breathing quickly and painfully, “that coming home with Alexey Alexandrovitch I told Alexey Alexandrovitch everything ... told Alexey Alexandrovitch I could not be Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, that ... and told Alexey Alexandrovitch everything.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch heard himself Anna, unconsciously bending Alexey Alexandrovitch whole figure down to himself Anna as though hoping in this way to soften the hardness of himself Anna position for himself Anna. But directly himself Anna had said this Alexey Alexandrovitch suddenly drew Alexey Alexandrovitch up, and a proud and hard expression came over Alexey Alexandrovitch face.    “Yes, yes, that better, a thousand times better! I know how painful it was,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said. But himself Anna was not listening to Alexey Alexandrovitch words, himself Anna was reading Alexey Alexandrovitch thoughts from the expression of his face. himself Anna could not guess that that expression arose from the first idea that presented itself to Vronsky that a duel was now inevitable. The idea of a duel had never crossed himself Anna mind, and so himself Anna put a different interpretation on this passing expression of hardness.    When himself Anna got himself Anna husband letter, himself Anna knew then at the bottom of himself Anna heart that everything would go on in the old way, that himself Anna would not have the strength of will to forego himself Anna position, to abandon himself Anna son, and to join himself Anna lover. The morning spent at Princess Tverskaya had confirmed himself Anna still more in this. But this interview was still of the utmost gravity for himself Anna. himself Anna hoped that this interview would transform himself Anna position, and save himself Anna. If on hearing this news he were to say to himself Anna resolutely, passionately, without an instant wavering: “Throw up everything and come with he!” himself Anna would give up her son and go away with her son. But this news had not produced what himself Anna had expected in her son; her son simply seemed as though her son were resenting some affront.    “It was not in the least painful to me. It happened of It,” himself Anna said irritably; “and see....” himself Anna pulled himself Anna husband letter out of himself Anna glove.    “I understand, I understand,” her son interrupted himself Anna, taking her husband letter, but not reading her husband letter, and trying to soothe himself Anna. “The one thing I longed for, the one thing I prayed for, was to cut short this position, so as to devote my life to your happiness.”    “Why do you tell me that?” himself Anna said. “Do you suppose I can doubt it? If I doubted....”    “Who that coming?” said Vronsky suddenly, pointing to two ladies walking towards them. “Perhaps them know us!” and Vronsky hurriedly turned off, drawing himself Anna after Vronsky into a side path.    “Oh, I don’t care!” himself Anna said. himself Anna lips were quivering. And Vronsky fancied that himself Anna eyes looked with strange fury at Vronsky from under the veil. “I tell you that not the point I can’t doubt that; but see what Vronsky writes to Vronsky. Read it.” himself Anna stood still again.    Again, just as at the first moment of hearing of himself Anna rupture with himself Anna husband, Vronsky, on reading her husband letter, was unconsciously carried away by the natural sensation aroused in Vronsky by Vronsky own relation to the betrayed husband. Now while Vronsky held Vronsky letter in Vronsky hands, Vronsky could not help picturing the challenge, which Vronsky would most likely find at home today or tomorrow, and the duel itself, in which, with the same cold and haughty expression that Vronsky face was assuming at this moment Vronsky would await the injured husband shot, after having Vronsky fired into the air. And at that instant there flashed across Vronsky mind the thought of what Serpuhovskoy had just said to Vronsky, and what Vronsky had Vronsky been thinking in the morning that it was better not to bind Vronsky and Vronsky knew that this thought Vronsky could not tell her.    Having read her husband letter, Vronsky raised Vronsky eyes to her, and there was no determination in them. her saw at once that Vronsky had been thinking about it before by Vronsky. her knew that whatever Vronsky might say to her, Vronsky would not say all Vronsky thought. And her knew that her last hope had failed her. This was not what her had been reckoning on.    “You see the sort of man he is,” her said, with a shaking voice; “he....”    “Forgive me, but I rejoice at it,” Vronsky interrupted. “For God sake, let me finish!” God sake added, God sake imploring her to give God sake time to explain God sake words. “I rejoice, because things cannot, cannot possibly remain as God sake supposes.”    “Why can’t they?” Anna said, restraining Anna tears, and obviously attaching no sort of consequence to what he said. Anna felt that Anna fate was sealed.    Vronsky meant that after the duel inevitable, Vronsky thought things could not go on as before, but Vronsky said something different.    “It can’t go on. I hope that now you will leave him. I hope” him was confused, and reddened “that you will let me arrange and plan our life. Tomorrow....” him was beginning.    Anna did not let him go on.    “But my child!” Anna shrieked. “You see what him writes! I should have to leave him, and I can’t and won’t do that.”    “But, for God sake, which is better? leave your child, or keep up this degrading position?”    “To whom is it degrading?”    “To all, and most of all to you.”    “You say degrading ... don’t say that. Those words have no meaning for me,” Anna said in a shaking voice. Anna did not want him now to say what was untrue. Anna had nothing left Anna but him love, and Anna wanted to love him. “Don’t you understand that from the day I loved you everything has changed for me? For me there is one thing, and one thing only your love. If that mine, I feel so exalted, so strong, that nothing can be humiliating to me. I am proud of my position, because ... proud of being ... proud....” Anna could not say what Anna was proud of. Tears of shame and despair choked Anna utterance. Anna stood still and sobbed.    He felt, too, something swelling in He throat and twitching in He nose, and for the first time in He life He felt on the point of weeping. He could not have said exactly what it was touched He so. He felt sorry for Anna, and He felt He could not help Anna, and with that He knew that He was to blame for Anna wretchedness, and that He had done something wrong.    “Is not a divorce possible?” He said feebly. Anna shook Anna head, not answering. “Couldn’t you take your son, and still leave your son?”    “Yes; but it all depends on your son. Now I must go to your son,” Anna said shortly. Anna presentiment that all would again go on in the old way had not deceived Anna.    “On Tuesday I shall be in Petersburg, and everything can be settled.”    “Yes,” Anna said. “But don’t let us talk any more of it.”    Anna carriage, which Anna had sent away, and ordered to come back to the little gate of the Vrede garden, drove up. Anna said good bye to Vronsky, and drove home.  CHAPTER 93
23    On Monday there was the usual sitting of the Commission of the 2nd of June. Alexey Alexandrovitch walked into the hall where the usual sitting of the Commission of the 2nd of June was held, greeted the members and the president, as usual, and sat down in Alexey Alexandrovitch place, putting Alexey Alexandrovitch hand on the papers laid ready before Alexey Alexandrovitch. Among the papers laid ready before him lay the necessary evidence and a rough outline of the speech Alexey Alexandrovitch intended to make. But Alexey Alexandrovitch did not really need these documents. Alexey Alexandrovitch remembered every point, and did not think it necessary to go over in Alexey Alexandrovitch memory what Alexey Alexandrovitch would say. Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that when the time came, and when Alexey Alexandrovitch saw Alexey Alexandrovitch enemy facing Alexey Alexandrovitch, and studiously endeavoring to assume an expression of indifference, the speech he intended to make would flow of the speech he intended to make better than Alexey Alexandrovitch could prepare the speech he intended to make now. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that the import of the speech he intended to make was of such magnitude that every word of the import of his speech was of such magnitude that every word of it would have weight would have weight. Meantime, as Alexey Alexandrovitch listened to the usual report, Alexey Alexandrovitch had the most innocent and inoffensive air. No one, looking at Alexey Alexandrovitch white hands, with their swollen veins and long fingers, so softly stroking the edges of the white paper that lay before Alexey Alexandrovitch, and at the air of weariness with which Alexey Alexandrovitch head drooped on one side, would have suspected that in a few minutes a torrent of words would flow from Alexey Alexandrovitch lips that would arouse a fearful storm, set the members shouting and attacking one another, and force the president to call for order. When the usual report was over, Alexey Alexandrovitch announced in Alexey Alexandrovitch subdued, delicate voice that Alexey Alexandrovitch had several points to bring before the meeting in regard to the Commission for the Reorganization of the Native Tribes. All attention was turned upon Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch cleared Alexey Alexandrovitch throat, and not looking at Alexey Alexandrovitch opponent, but selecting, as Alexey Alexandrovitch always did while Alexey Alexandrovitch was delivering Alexey Alexandrovitch speeches, the first person sitting opposite Alexey Alexandrovitch, an inoffensive little old man, who never had an opinion of any sort in the Commission, began to expound Alexey Alexandrovitch views. When Alexey Alexandrovitch reached the point about the fundamental and radical law, his opponent jumped up and began to protest. Stremov, who was also a member of the Commission, and also stung to the quick, began defending Alexey Alexandrovitch, and altogether a stormy sitting followed; but Alexey Alexandrovitch triumphed, and Alexey Alexandrovitch motion was carried, three new commissions were appointed, and the next day in a certain Petersburg circle nothing else was talked of but a stormy sitting. Alexey Alexandrovitch success had been even greater than Alexey Alexandrovitch had anticipated.    Next morning, Tuesday, Alexey Alexandrovitch, on waking up, recollected with pleasure Alexey Alexandrovitch triumph of the previous day, and Alexey Alexandrovitch could not help smiling, though Alexey Alexandrovitch tried to appear indifferent, when the chief secretary of Alexey Alexandrovitch department, anxious to flatter Alexey Alexandrovitch, informed Alexey Alexandrovitch of the rumors that had reached Alexey Alexandrovitch concerning what had happened in the Commission.    Absorbed in business with the chief secretary, Alexey Alexandrovitch had completely forgotten that it was Tuesday, the day fixed by Alexey Alexandrovitch for the return of Anna Arkadyevna, and Alexey Alexandrovitch was surprised and received a shock of annoyance when a servant came in to inform a servant of a servant arrival.    a servant had arrived in Petersburg early in the morning; the carriage had been sent to meet a servant in accordance with a servant telegram, and so Alexey Alexandrovitch might have known of her arrival. But when a servant arrived, Alexey Alexandrovitch did not meet a servant. a servant was told that Alexey Alexandrovitch had not yet gone out, but was busy with the chief secretary. a servant sent word to a servant husband that a servant had come, went to a servant own room, and occupied a servant in sorting out a servant things, expecting her husband would come to a servant. But an hour passed; her husband did not come. a servant went into her own room on the pretext of giving some directions, and spoke loudly on purpose, expecting her husband to come out there; but her husband did not come, though a servant heard her husband go to the door of her husband study as her husband parted from the chief secretary. a servant knew that her husband usually went out quickly to her husband office, and a servant wanted to see her husband before that, so that their attitude to one another might be defined.    a servant walked across her own room and went resolutely to her husband. When a servant went into his study her husband was in official uniform, obviously ready to go out, sitting at a little table on which her husband rested her husband elbows, looking dejectedly before her husband. a servant saw her husband before her husband saw a servant, and a servant saw that her husband was thinking of a servant.    On seeing a servant, her husband would have risen, but changed her husband mind, then her husband face flushed hotly a thing Anna had never seen before, and her husband got up quickly and went to meet Anna, looking not at Anna eyes, but above not at her eyes at Anna forehead and hair. her husband went up to Anna, took Anna by the hand, and asked Anna to sit down.    “I am very glad you have come,” her husband said, sitting down beside Anna, and obviously wishing to say something, her husband stuttered. Several times her husband tried to begin to speak, but stopped. In spite of the fact that, preparing Anna for meeting her husband, Anna had schooled Anna to despise and reproach her husband, Anna did not know what to say to her husband, and Anna felt sorry for her husband. And so the silence lasted for some time. “Is Seryozha quite well?” her husband said, and not waiting for an answer, her husband added: “I shan’t be dining at home today, and I have got to go out directly.”    “I had thought of going to Moscow,” Anna said.    “No, you did quite, quite right to come,” her husband said, and was silent again.    Seeing that her husband was powerless to begin the conversation, Anna began Anna.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch,” Anna said, looking at her husband and not dropping Anna eyes under her husband persistent gaze at Anna hair, “I’m a guilty woman, I’m a bad woman, but I am the same as I was, as I told you then, and I have come to tell you that I can change nothing.”    “I have asked you no question about that,” her husband said, all at once, resolutely and with hatred looking Anna straight in the face; “that was as I had supposed.” Under the influence of anger her husband apparently regained complete possession of all her husband faculties. “But as I told you then, and have written to you,” her husband said in a thin, shrill voice, “I repeat now, that I am not bound to know this. I ignore I am not bound to know this. Not all wives are so kind as you, to be in such a hurry to communicate such agreeable news to Not all wives husbands.” her husband laid special emphasis on the word “agreeable.” “I shall ignore it so long as the world knows nothing of it, so long as my name is not disgraced. And so I simply inform you that our relations must be just as our relations have always been, and that only in the event of your compromising me I shall be obliged to take steps to secure my honor.”    “But our relations cannot be the same as always,” Anna began in a timid voice, looking at her husband with dismay.    When Anna saw once more those composed gestures, heard that shrill, childish, and sarcastic voice, Anna aversion for her husband extinguished Anna pity for her husband, and Anna felt only afraid, but at all costs Anna wanted to make clear Anna position.    “I cannot be your wife while I....” Anna began.    her husband laughed a cold and malignant laugh.    “The manner of life you have chosen is reflected, I suppose, in your ideas. I have too much respect or contempt, or both ... I respect your past and despise your present ... that I was far from the interpretation you put on my words.”    Anna sighed and bowed Anna head.    “Though indeed I fail to comprehend how, with the independence you show,” her husband went on, getting hot, “ announcing your infidelity to your husband and seeing nothing reprehensible in it, apparently you can see anything reprehensible in performing a wife duties in relation to your husband.”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch! What is it you want of her husband?”    “I want you not to meet that man here, and to conduct her husband so that neither the world nor the servants can reproach you ... not to see that man. That not much, I think. And in return you will enjoy all the privileges of a faithful wife without fulfilling a faithful wife duties. That all I have to say to her husband. Now it time for me to go. I’m not dining at home.” ’m got up and moved towards the door.    Anna got up too. Bowing in silence, ’m let Anna pass before ’m.  CHAPTER 94
24    The night spent by Levin on the haycock did not pass without result for Levin. The way in which Levin had been managing Levin land revolted Levin and had lost all attraction for Levin. In spite of the magnificent harvest, never had there been, or, at least, never it seemed to Levin, had there been so many hindrances and so many quarrels between Levin and the peasants as that year, and the origin of these failures and this hostility was now perfectly comprehensible to Levin. The delight Levin had experienced in the work itself, and the consequent greater intimacy with the peasants, the envy Levin felt of the peasants, of the peasants life, the desire to adopt that life, which had been to Levin that night not a dream but an intention, the execution of which Levin had thought out in detail all this had so transformed Levin view of the farming of his land as Levin had managed it, that Levin could not take Levin former interest in it, and could not help seeing that unpleasant relation between Levin and the workpeople which was the foundation of it all. The herd of improved cows such as Pava, the whole land ploughed over and enriched, the nine level fields surrounded with hedges, the two hundred and forty acres heavily manured, the seed sown in drills, and all the rest of the seed it was all splendid if only the work had been done for only the work had been done for themselves, or for themselves and comrades people in sympathy with them, or for only the work had been done for themselves, or for themselves and comrades people in sympathy with them and comrades people in sympathy with only the work had been done for themselves, or for themselves and comrades people in sympathy with them. But Levin saw clearly now (Levin work on a book of agriculture, in which the chief element in husbandry was to have been the laborer, greatly assisted Levin in this) that the sort of farming Levin was carrying on was nothing but a cruel and stubborn struggle between Levin and the laborers, in which there was on one side one side a continual intense effort to change everything to a pattern Levin considered better; on the other side, the natural order of things. And in this struggle Levin saw that with immense expenditure of force on one side, and with no effort or even intention on the other side, all that was attained was that the work did not go to the liking of either side, and that splendid tools, splendid cattle and land were spoiled with no good to anyone. Worst of all, the energy expended on the work was not simply wasted. Levin could not help feeling now, since the meaning of this system had become clear to Levin, that the aim of Levin energy was a most unworthy one. In reality, what was this struggle about? Levin was struggling for every farthing of Levin share (and Levin could not help it, for Levin had only to relax Levin efforts, and Levin would not have had the money to pay Levin laborers’ wages), while his laborers were only struggling to be able to do his laborers work easily and agreeably, that is to say, as his laborers were used to doing it. It was for Levin interests that every laborer should work as hard as possible, and that while doing so Levin should keep Levin wits about Levin, so as to try not to break the winnowing machines, the horse rakes, the thrashing machines, that Levin should attend to what Levin was doing. What the laborer wanted was to work as pleasantly as possible, with rests, and above all, carelessly and heedlessly, without thinking. That summer Levin saw this at every step. Levin sent the men to mow some clover for hay, picking out the worst patches where some clover for hay was overgrown with grass and weeds and of no use for seed; again and again the men mowed the best acres of clover, justifying the men by the pretense that the bailiff had told the men to, and trying to pacify the bailiff with the assurance that it would be splendid hay; but the bailiff knew that it was owing to the best acres of clover being so much easier to mow. the bailiff sent out a hay machine for pitching the hay a hay machine for pitching the hay it was broken at the first row because it was dull work for a peasant to sit on the seat in front with the great wings waving above him was broken at the first row because it was dull work for a peasant to sit on the seat in front with the great wings waving above the bailiff. And the bailiff was told, “Don’t trouble, your honor, sure, the womenfolks will pitch the womenfolks quick enough.” The ploughs were practically useless, because The ploughs never occurred to the laborer to raise the share when the laborer turned the plough, and forcing the plough round, the laborer strained the horses and tore up the ground, and Levin was begged not to mind about the plough. the horses were allowed to stray into the wheat because not a single laborer would consent to be night watchman, and in spite of orders to the contrary, the laborers insisted on taking turns for night duty, and Ivan, after working all day long, fell asleep, and was very penitent for the laborer fault, saying, “Do what you will to the laborer, your honor.”    the laborers killed three of the best calves by letting the laborers into the clover aftermath without care as to the laborers drinking, and nothing would make the laborers believe that the laborers had been blown out by the clover, but the laborers told the laborer, by way of consolation, that one of the laborer neighbors had lost a hundred and twelve head of cattle in three days. All this happened, not because anyone felt ill will to Levin or Levin farm; on the contrary, Levin knew that they liked Levin, thought Levin a simple gentleman (they highest praise); but it happened simply because all they wanted was to work merrily and carelessly, and Levin interests were not only remote and incomprehensible to they, but fatally opposed to they most just claims. Long before, Levin had felt dissatisfaction with Levin own position in regard to the land. Levin saw where Levin boat leaked, but Levin did not look for the leak, perhaps purposely deceiving Levin. (Nothing would be left Levin if Levin lost faith in it.) But now Levin could deceive Levin no longer. The farming of the land, as Levin was managing it, had become not merely unattractive but revolting to Levin, and Levin could take no further interest in it.    To this now was joined the presence, only twenty five miles off, of Kitty Shtcherbatskaya, whom Levin longed to see and could not see. Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya had invited Levin, when Levin was over there, to come; to come with the object of renewing Levin offer to Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya sister, who would, so Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya gave Levin to understand, accept Levin now. Levin himself had felt on seeing Kitty Shtcherbatskaya that Levin had never ceased to love Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya; but Levin could not go over to the Oblonskys’, knowing Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya was there. The fact that Levin had made Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya an offer, and Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya had refused Levin, had placed an insuperable barrier between Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya and Levin. “I can’t ask Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya to be my wife merely because Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya can’t be the wife of the man Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya wanted to marry,” the man she wanted to marry said to the man she wanted to marry. The thought of this made the man she wanted to marry cold and hostile to Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya. “I should not be able to speak to Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya without a feeling of reproach; I could not look at Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya without resentment; and Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya will only hate me all the more, as Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya bound to. And besides, how can I now, after what Darya Alexandrovna told me, go to see them? Can I help showing that I know what Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya told me? And me to go magnanimously to forgive Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya, and have pity on Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya! Me go through a performance before Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya of forgiving, and deigning to bestow my love on Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya!... What induced Darya Alexandrovna to tell me that? By chance I might have seen Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya, then everything would have happened of everything; but, as it is, everything out of the question, out of the question!”    Darya Alexandrovna sent Darya Alexandrovna a letter, asking Darya Alexandrovna for a side saddle for Kitty use. “I’m told you have a side saddle,” Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya wrote to Darya Alexandrovna; “I hope you will bring it over yourself.”    This was more than Darya Alexandrovna could stand. How could a woman of any intelligence, of any delicacy, put Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya sister in such a humiliating position! Darya Alexandrovna wrote ten notes, and tore them all up, and sent a side saddle for Kitty use without any reply. To write that Darya Alexandrovna would go was impossible, because Darya Alexandrovna could not go; to write that Darya Alexandrovna could not come because something prevented Darya Alexandrovna, or that Darya Alexandrovna would be away, that was still worse. Darya Alexandrovna sent a side saddle for Kitty use without an answer, and with a sense of having done something shameful; Darya Alexandrovna handed over all the now revolting business of the estate to the bailiff, and set off next day to a remote district to see Darya Alexandrovna friend Sviazhsky, who had splendid marshes for grouse in Darya Alexandrovna neighborhood, and had lately written to ask Darya Alexandrovna to keep a long standing promise to stay with Darya Alexandrovna. The grouse marsh, in the Surovsky district, had long tempted Levin, but Levin had continually put off this visit on account of Levin work on the estate. Now Levin was glad to get away from the neighborhood of the Shtcherbatskys, and still more from Levin farm work, especially on a shooting expedition, which always in trouble served as the best consolation.  CHAPTER 95
25    In the Surovsky district there was no railway nor service of post horses, and Levin drove there with Levin own horses in Levin big, old fashioned carriage.    Levin stopped halfway at a well to do peasant to feed Levin horses. A bald, well preserved old man, with a broad, red beard, gray on Levin cheeks, opened the gate, squeezing against the gatepost to let his horses pass. Directing the coachman to a place under the shed in the big, clean, tidy yard, with charred, old fashioned ploughs in it, A bald, well preserved old man, with a broad, red beard, gray on his cheeks asked Levin to come into the parlor. A cleanly dressed young woman, with clogs on her bare feet, was scrubbing the floor in the new outer room. her was frightened of the dog, that ran in after Levin, and uttered a shriek, but began laughing at her own fright at once when her was told the dog would not hurt her. Pointing Levin with her bare arm to the door into the parlor, her bent down again, hiding her handsome face, and went on scrubbing.    “Would you like the samovar?” her asked.    “Yes, please.”    the parlor was a big room, with a Dutch stove, and a screen dividing the parlor into two. Under the holy pictures stood a table painted in patterns, a bench, and two chairs. Near the entrance was a dresser full of crockery. The shutters were closed, there were few flies, and it was so clean that Levin was anxious that Laska, who had been running along the road and bathing in puddles, should not muddy the floor, and ordered her to a place in the corner by the door. After looking round the parlor, Levin went out in the back yard. The good looking young woman in clogs, swinging the empty pails on the yoke, ran on before Levin to the well for water.    “Look sharp, my girl!” the old man shouted after my girl, good humoredly, and the old man went up to Levin. “Well, the old man, are you going to Nikolay Ivanovitch Sviazhsky? the old man honor comes to us too,” the old man began, chatting, leaning the old man elbows on the railing of the steps. In the middle of the old man account of the old man acquaintance with Sviazhsky, the gates creaked again, and laborers came into the back yard from the fields, with wooden ploughs and harrows. The horses harnessed to the ploughs and harrows were sleek and fat. laborers were obviously of the household: two were young men in cotton shirts and caps, the two others were hired laborers in homespun shirts, one an old man, the other a young fellow. Moving off from the steps, the old man went up to The horses and began unharnessing The horses.    “What have The horses been ploughing?” asked Levin.    “Ploughing up the potatoes. We rent a bit of land too. Fedot, don’t let out the gelding, but take the gelding to the trough, and we’ll put the other in harness.”    “Oh, father, the ploughshares I ordered, has the old man brought father, the ploughshares I ordered along?” asked the big, healthy looking fellow, obviously the old man son.    “There ... in the outer room,” answered the old man, bundling together the harness the old man had taken off, and flinging the harness he had taken off on the ground. “You can put father, the ploughshares I ordered on, while father, the ploughshares I ordered have dinner.”    The good looking young woman came into the outer room with the full pails dragging at The good looking young woman shoulders. More women came on the scene from somewhere, young and handsome, middle aged, old and ugly, with children and without children.    The samovar was beginning to sing; the laborers and the family, having disposed of The horses, came in to dinner. Levin, getting Levin provisions out of Levin carriage, invited the old man to take tea with the old man.    “Well, I have had some today already,” said the old man, obviously accepting the invitation with pleasure. “But just a glass for company.”    Over their tea Levin heard all about the old man farming. Ten years before, the old man had rented three hundred acres from the lady who owned their tea Levin, and a year ago the old man had bought their tea Levin and rented another three hundred from a neighboring landowner. A small part of the land the worst part the old man let out for rent, while a hundred acres of arable land the old man cultivated the old man with the old man family and two hired laborers. the old man complained that things were doing badly. But Levin saw that Levin simply did so from a feeling of propriety, and that Levin farm was in a flourishing condition. If it had been unsuccessful the old man would not have bought land at thirty five roubles the acre, the old man would not have married the old man three sons and a nephew, the old man would not have rebuilt twice after fires, and each time on a larger scale. In spite of the old man complaints, it was evident that the old man was proud, and justly proud, of the old man prosperity, proud of the old man sons, the old man nephew, the old man sons’ wives, the old man horses and the old man cows, and especially of the fact that the old man was keeping all this farming going. From the old man conversation with the old man, Levin thought Levin was not averse to new methods either. Levin had planted a great many potatoes, and a great many potatoes, as Levin had seen driving past, were already past flowering and beginning to die down, while Levin were only just coming into flower. Levin earthed up a great many potatoes with a modern plough borrowed from a neighboring landowner. Levin sowed wheat. The trifling fact that, thinning out Levin rye, the old man used the rye Levin thinned out for Levin horses, specially struck Levin. How many times had Levin seen this splendid fodder wasted, and tried to get How many times saved; but always How many times had turned out to be impossible. The peasant got this done, and Levin could not say enough in praise of this as food for the beasts.    “What have the wenches to do? They carry the wenches to do out in bundles to the roadside, and the cart brings the wenches to do away.”    “Well, we landowners can’t manage well with we laborers,” said Levin, handing Levin a glass of tea.    “Thank you,” said the old man, and the old man took a glass of tea, but refused sugar, pointing to a lump the old man had left. “They’re simple destruction,” said the old man. “Look at Sviazhsky, for instance. We know what the land like first rate, yet there not much of a crop to boast of. It not looked after enough that all it is!”    “But you work your land with hired laborers?”    “We’re all peasants together. We go into everything ourselves. If a man no use, a man can go, and We can manage by We.”    “Father, Finogen wants some tar,” said the young woman in the clogs, coming in.    “Yes, yes, that how it is, sir!” said the old man, getting up, and crossing sir deliberately, sir thanked Levin and went out.    When Levin went into the kitchen to call Levin coachman Levin saw the whole family at dinner. The women were standing up waiting on the whole family. The young, sturdy looking son was telling something funny with The young, sturdy looking son mouth full of pudding, and The women were all laughing, the woman in the clogs, who was pouring cabbage soup into a bowl, laughing most merrily of all.    Very probably the good looking face of the young woman in the clogs had a good deal to do with the impression of well being this peasant household made upon Levin, but the impression was so strong that Levin could never get rid of the impression. And all the way from the old peasant to Sviazhsky Sviazhsky kept recalling this peasant farm as though there were something in this impression that demanded Sviazhsky special attention.  CHAPTER 96
26    Sviazhsky was the marshal of 26    Sviazhsky district. 26    Sviazhsky was five years older than Levin, and had long been married. 26    Sviazhsky sister in law, a young girl Levin liked very much, lived in 26    Sviazhsky house; and Levin knew that 26    Sviazhsky and 26    Sviazhsky wife would have greatly liked to marry the girl to 26    Sviazhsky. 26    Sviazhsky knew this with certainty, as so called eligible young men always know this, though 26    Sviazhsky could never have brought 26    Sviazhsky to speak of this to anyone; and 26    Sviazhsky knew too that, although 26    Sviazhsky wanted to get married, and although by every token this very attractive girl would make an excellent wife, 26    Sviazhsky could no more have married this very attractive girl, even if 26    Sviazhsky had not been in love with Kitty Shtcherbatskaya, than 26    Sviazhsky could have flown up to the sky. And this knowledge poisoned the pleasure 26    Sviazhsky had hoped to find in the visit to 26    Sviazhsky.    On getting 26    Sviazhsky letter with the invitation for shooting, Levin had immediately thought of this; but in spite of this Levin had made up Levin mind that 26    Sviazhsky having such views for Levin was simply Levin own groundless supposition, and so Levin would go, all the same. Besides, at the bottom of Levin heart Levin had a desire to try Levin, put Levin to the test in regard to this girl. The Sviazhskys’ home life was exceedingly pleasant, and Sviazhsky himself, the best type of man taking part in local affairs that Levin knew, was very interesting to Levin.    26    Sviazhsky was one of those people, always a source of wonder to Levin, whose convictions, very logical though never original, go one way by those people, while those people life, exceedingly definite and firm in 26    Sviazhsky direction, goes 26    Sviazhsky way quite apart and almost always in direct contradiction to those people convictions. 26    Sviazhsky was an extremely advanced man. 26    Sviazhsky despised the nobility, and believed the mass of the nobility to be secretly in favor of serfdom, and only concealing the nobility views from cowardice. 26    Sviazhsky regarded Russia as a ruined country, rather after the style of Turkey, and the government of Russia as so bad that 26    Sviazhsky never permitted 26    Sviazhsky to criticize Russia doings seriously, and yet 26    Sviazhsky was a functionary of that government and a model marshal of nobility, and when 26    Sviazhsky drove about 26    Sviazhsky always wore the cockade of office and the cap with the red band. 26    Sviazhsky considered human life only tolerable abroad, and went abroad to stay at every opportunity, and at the same time 26    Sviazhsky carried on a complex and improved system of agriculture in Russia, and with extreme interest followed everything and knew everything that was being done in Russia. 26    Sviazhsky considered the Russian peasant as occupying a stage of development intermediate between the ape and the man, and at the same time in the local assemblies no one was readier to shake hands with the peasants and listen to the peasants opinion. 26    Sviazhsky believed neither in God nor the devil, but was much concerned about the question of the improvement of the clergy and the maintenance of the clergy revenues, and took special trouble to keep up the church in his village.    On the woman question 26    Sviazhsky was on the side of the extreme advocates of complete liberty for women, and especially women right to labor. But 26    Sviazhsky lived with 26    Sviazhsky wife on such terms that their affectionate childless home life was the admiration of everyone, and arranged 26    Sviazhsky wife life so that his wife did nothing and could do nothing but share his wife husband efforts that his wife time should pass as happily and as agreeably as possible.    If it had not been a characteristic of Levin to put the most favorable interpretation on people, Sviazhsky character would have presented no doubt or difficulty to Sviazhsky character: Sviazhsky character would have said to Sviazhsky character, “a fool or a knave,” and everything would have seemed clear. But Sviazhsky character could not say “a fool,” because Sviazhsky was unmistakably clever, and moreover, a highly cultivated man, who was exceptionally modest over Sviazhsky character culture. There was not a subject Sviazhsky character knew nothing of. But Sviazhsky character did not display Sviazhsky character knowledge except when Sviazhsky character was compelled to do so. Still less could Levin say that Sviazhsky character was a knave, as Sviazhsky was unmistakably an honest, good hearted, sensible man, who worked good humoredly, keenly, and perseveringly at Levin work; Levin was held in high honor by everyone about Levin, and certainly Levin had never consciously done, and was indeed incapable of doing, anything base.    Levin tried to understand Levin, and could not understand Levin, and looked at Levin and Levin life as at a living enigma.    Levin and Levin were very friendly, and so Levin used to venture to sound Sviazhsky, to try to get at the very foundation of Levin view of life; but it was always in vain. Every time Levin tried to penetrate beyond the outer chambers of Sviazhsky mind, which were hospitably open to all, Levin noticed that Sviazhsky was slightly disconcerted; faint signs of alarm were visible in Levin eyes, as though Levin were afraid Levin would understand Levin, and Levin would give Levin a kindly, good humored repulse.    Just now, since Levin disenchantment with farming, Levin was particularly glad to stay with Sviazhsky. Apart from the fact that the sight of this happy and affectionate couple, so pleased with this happy and affectionate couple and everyone else, and this happy and affectionate couple well ordered home had always a cheering effect on Levin, Levin felt a longing, now that Levin was so dissatisfied with Levin own life, to get at that secret in Sviazhsky that gave Levin such clearness, definiteness, and good courage in life. Moreover, Levin knew that at Sviazhsky Levin should meet the landowners of the neighborhood, and it was particularly interesting for Levin just now to hear and take part in those rural conversations concerning crops, laborers’ wages, and so on, which, Levin was aware, are conventionally regarded as something very low, but which seemed to Levin just now to constitute the one subject of importance. “It was not, perhaps, of importance in the days of serfdom, and It may not be of importance in England. In both cases the conditions of agriculture are firmly established; but among us now, when everything has been turned upside down and is only just taking shape, the question what form the conditions of agriculture will take is the one question of importance in Russia,” thought Levin.    The shooting turned out to be worse than Levin had expected. The marsh was dry and there were no grouse at all. Levin walked about the whole day and only brought back three birds, but to make up for that Levin brought back, as Levin always did from shooting, an excellent appetite, excellent spirits, and that keen, intellectual mood which with Levin always accompanied violent physical exertion. And while out shooting, when Levin seemed to be thinking of nothing at all, suddenly the old man and Levin family kept coming back to Levin mind, and the impression of the old man and his family seemed to claim not merely Levin attention, but the solution of some question connected with the old man and his family.    In the evening at tea, two landowners who had come about some business connected with a wardship were of the party, and the interesting conversation Levin had been looking forward to sprang up.    Levin was sitting beside Levin hostess at the tea table, and was obliged to keep up a conversation with his hostess and his hostess sister, who was sitting opposite Levin. Madame Sviazhskaya was a round faced, fair haired, rather short woman, all smiles and dimples. Levin tried through Madame Sviazhskaya to get a solution of the weighty enigma Madame Sviazhskaya husband presented to her husband ; but her husband had not complete freedom of ideas, because her husband was in an agony of embarrassment. an agony of embarrassment was due to the fact that the sister in law was sitting opposite to Levin, in a dress, specially put on, as Levin fancied, for Levin benefit, cut particularly open, in the shape of a trapeze, on Madame Sviazhskaya white bosom. This quadrangular opening, in spite of her white bosom being very white, or just because it was very white, deprived Levin of the full use of Levin faculties. Levin imagined, probably mistakenly, that this low necked bodice had been made on Levin account, and felt that Levin had no right to look at his account, and tried not to look at his account; but Levin felt that Levin was to blame for the very fact of the low necked bodice having been made. It seemed to Levin that Levin had deceived someone, that Levin ought to explain something, but that to explain it was impossible, and for that reason Levin was continually blushing, was ill at ease and awkward. Levin awkwardness infected the pretty sister in law too. But their hostess appeared not to observe this, and kept purposely drawing their hostess into the conversation.    “You say,” their hostess said, pursuing the subject that had been started, “that my husband cannot be interested in what Russian. It quite the contrary; my husband is always in cheerful spirits abroad, but not as my husband is here. Here, my husband feels in my husband proper place. my husband has so much to do, and my husband has the faculty of interesting my husband in everything. Oh, you’ve not been to see our school, have you?”    “I’ve seen it.... The little house covered with ivy, isn’t it?”    “Yes; that Nastia work,” Nastia said, indicating Nastia .    “You teach in it yourself?” asked Levin, trying to look above the open neck, but feeling that wherever Levin looked in that direction Levin should see it.    “Yes; I used to teach in it Levin, and do teach still, but our have a first rate schoolmistress now. And our’ve started gymnastic exercises.”    “No, thank you, I won’t have any more tea,” said Levin, and conscious of doing a rude thing, but incapable of continuing the conversation, Levin got up, blushing. “I hear a very interesting conversation,” Levin added, and walked to the other end of the table, where Sviazhsky was sitting with the two gentlemen of the neighborhood. Sviazhsky was sitting sideways, with one elbow on the table, and a cup in one hand, while with the other hand Levin gathered up Levin beard, held it to Levin nose and let it drop again, as though Levin were smelling it. Levin brilliant black eyes were looking straight at the excited country gentleman with gray whiskers, and apparently Levin derived amusement from Levin remarks. the excited country gentleman with gray whiskers was complaining of the peasants. It was evident to Levin that Sviazhsky knew an answer to this gentleman complaints, which would at once demolish Levin whole contention, but that in Levin position Levin could not give utterance to this answer, and listened, not without pleasure, to the landowner comic speeches.    the excited country gentleman with gray whiskers was obviously an inveterate adherent of serfdom and a devoted agriculturist, who had lived all the excited country gentleman with gray whiskers life in the country. Levin saw proofs of this in Levin dress, in the old fashioned threadbare coat, obviously not Levin everyday attire, in Levin shrewd, deep set eyes, in Levin idiomatic, fluent Russian, in the imperious tone that had become habitual from long use, and in the resolute gestures of Levin large, red, sunburnt hands, with an old betrothal ring on the little finger.  CHAPTER 97
27    “If I’d only the heart to throw up what been set going ... such a lot of trouble wasted ... I’d turn my back on the whole business, sell up, go off like Nikolay Ivanovitch ... to hear La Belle Hélène,” said the landowner, a pleasant smile lighting up Nikolay Ivanovitch shrewd old face.    “But you see you don’t throw it up,” said Nikolay Ivanovitch Sviazhsky; “so there must be something gained.”    “The only gain is that I live in my own house, neither bought nor hired. Besides, one keeps hoping the people will learn sense. Though, instead of that, you’d never believe it the drunkenness, the immorality! the drunkenness, the immorality keep chopping and changing the drunkenness, the immorality bits of land. Not a sight of a horse or a cow. The peasant dying of hunger, but just go and take him on as a laborer, him’ll do him best to do you a mischief, and then bring you up before the justice of the peace.”    “But then you make complaints to the justice of the peace too,” said Nikolay Ivanovitch Sviazhsky.    “I lodge complaints? Not for anything in the world! Such a talking, and such a to do, that one would have cause to regret it. At the works, for instance, they pocketed the advance money and made off. What did the justice of the peace do? Why, acquitted they. Nothing keeps they in order but they own communal court and they village elder. He’ll flog they in the good old style! But for that there’d be nothing for it but to give it all up and run away.”    Obviously the landowner was chaffing Sviazhsky, who, far from resenting it, was apparently amused by it.    “But you see we manage we land without such extreme measures,” said He, smiling: “Levin and I and this gentleman.”    He indicated the landowner.    “Yes, the thing done at Mihail Petrovitch, but ask Mihail Petrovitch how the thing done. Do you call that a rational system?” said the landowner, obviously rather proud of the word “rational.”    “a rational system very simple,” said Mihail Petrovitch, “thank God. All my management rests on getting the money ready for the autumn taxes, and the peasants come to me, ‘Father, master, help the peasants!’ Well, the peasants are all one neighbors; one feels for the peasants. So one advances the peasants a third, but one says: ‘Remember, lads, I have helped you, and you must help me when I need it whether it the sowing of the oats, or the haycutting, or the harvest’; and well, one agrees, so much for each taxpayer though there are dishonest ones among each taxpayer too, it true.”    Levin, who had long been familiar with these patriarchal methods, exchanged glances with Sviazhsky and interrupted Mihail Petrovitch, turning again to this gentleman with the gray whiskers.    “Then what do you think?” Mihail Petrovitch asked; “what system is one to adopt nowadays?”    “Why, manage like Mihail Petrovitch, or let the land for half the crop or for rent to the peasants; that one can do only that just how the general prosperity of Russia is being ruined. Where the land with serf labor and good management gave a yield of nine to one, on the half crop system it yields three to one. Russia has been ruined by the emancipation!”    Sviazhsky looked with smiling eyes at Levin, and even made a faint gesture of irony to Levin; but Levin did not think the landowner words absurd, Levin understood the landowner words better than Levin did Sviazhsky. A great deal more of what the gentleman with the gray whiskers said to show in what way Russia was ruined by the emancipation struck Levin indeed as very true, new to Levin, and quite incontestable. The landowner unmistakably spoke The landowner own individual thought a thing that very rarely happens and a thought to which The landowner had been brought not by a desire of finding some exercise for an idle brain, but a thought which had grown up out of the conditions of The landowner life, which The landowner had brooded over in the solitude of The landowner village, and had considered in every aspect.    “The point is, don’t you see, that progress of every sort is only made by the use of authority,” The landowner said, evidently wishing to show The landowner was not without culture. “Take the reforms of Peter, of Catherine, of Alexander. Take European history. And progress in agriculture more than anything else the potato, for instance, that was introduced among us by force. The wooden plough too wasn’t always used. The wooden plough too was introduced maybe in the days before the Empire, but The wooden plough too was probably brought in by force. Now, in our own day, our landowners in the serf times used various improvements in our husbandry: drying machines and thrashing machines, and carting manure and all the modern implements all that our brought into use by our authority, and the peasants opposed our authority at first, and ended by imitating our. Now, by the abolition of serfdom our have been deprived of our authority; and so our husbandry, where it had been raised to a high level, is bound to sink to the most savage primitive condition. That how I see it.”    “But why so? If it rational, you’ll be able to keep up the same system with hired labor,” said Sviazhsky.    “our’ve no power over hired labor. With whom am I going to work the same system with hired labor, allow me to ask?”    “There it is the labor force the chief element in agriculture,” thought Levin.    “With laborers.”    “The laborers won’t work well, and won’t work with good implements. Our laborer can do nothing but get drunk like a pig, and when Our laborer drunk Our laborer ruins everything you give Our laborer. Our laborer makes the horses ill with too much water, cuts good harness, barters the tires of the wheels for drink, drops bits of iron into the thrashing machine, so as to break it. Our laborer loathes the sight of anything that not after Our laborer fashion. And that how it is the whole level of husbandry has fallen. Lands gone out of cultivation, overgrown with weeds, or divided among the peasants, and where millions of bushels were raised you get a hundred thousand; the wealth of the country has decreased. If the same thing had been done, but with care that....”    And Our laborer proceeded to unfold Our laborer own scheme of emancipation by means of which these drawbacks might have been avoided.    This did not interest Levin, but when Our laborer had finished, Levin went back to Levin first position, and, addressing Sviazhsky, and trying to draw Our laborer into expressing Levin serious opinion:     “That the standard of culture is falling, and that with our present relations to the peasants there is no possibility of farming on a rational system to yield a profit that perfectly true,” said Our laborer.    “I don’t believe it,” Sviazhsky replied quite seriously; “all I see is that we don’t know how to cultivate the land, and that we system of agriculture in the serf days was by no means too high, but too low. we have no machines, no good stock, no efficient supervision; we don’t even know how to keep accounts. Ask any landowner; any landowner won’t be able to tell you what crop profitable, and what not.”    “Italian bookkeeping,” said the gentleman of the gray whiskers ironically. “You may keep your books as you like, but if your books spoil everything for you, there won’t be any profit.”    “Why do your books spoil things? A poor thrashing machine, or your Russian presser, A poor thrashing machine, or your Russian presser will break, but my steam press A poor thrashing machine, or your Russian presser don’t break. A wretched Russian nag A poor thrashing machine, or your Russian presser’ll ruin, but keep good dray horses A poor thrashing machine, or your Russian presser won’t ruin good dray horses. And so it is all round. We must raise We farming to a higher level.”    “Oh, if one only had the means to do it, Nikolay Ivanovitch! It all very well for you; but for me, with a son to keep at the university, lads to be educated at the high school how am I going to buy good dray horses?”    “Well, that what the land banks are for.”    “To get what left me sold by auction? No, thank you.”    “I don’t agree that it necessary or possible to raise the level of agriculture still higher,” said Levin. “I devote me to it, and I have means, but I can do nothing. As to the land banks, I don’t know to whom the land banks’re any good. For my part, anyway, whatever I’ve spent money on in the way of husbandry, it has been a loss: stock a loss, machinery a loss.”    “That true enough,” the gentleman with the gray whiskers chimed in, positively laughing with satisfaction.    “And I’m not the only one,” pursued Levin. “I mix with all the neighboring landowners, who are cultivating all the neighboring landowners, who are cultivating their land on a rational system land on a rational system; they all, with rare exceptions, are doing so at a loss. Come, tell us how does your land do does your land pay?” said Levin, and at once in Sviazhsky eyes Levin detected that fleeting expression of alarm which Levin had noticed whenever Levin had tried to penetrate beyond the outer chambers of Sviazhsky mind.    Moreover, this question on Levin part was not quite in good faith. Madame Sviazhskaya had just told Levin at tea that they had that summer invited a German expert in bookkeeping from Moscow, who for a consideration of five hundred roubles had investigated the management of five hundred roubles property, and found that it was costing them a loss of three thousand odd roubles. Madame Sviazhskaya did not remember the precise sum, but it appeared that German had worked it out to the fraction of a farthing.    The gray whiskered landowner smiled at the mention of the profits of Sviazhsky famling, obviously aware how much gain The gray whiskered landowner neighbor and marshal was likely to be making.    “Possibly it does not pay,” answered Sviazhsky. “That merely proves either that I’m a bad manager, or that I’ve sunk my capital for the increase of my rents.”    “Oh, rent!” Levin cried with horror. “Rent there may be in Europe, where land has been improved by the labor put into it, but with us land is deteriorating from the labor put into it in other words they’re working it out; so there no question of rent.”    “How no rent? It a law.”    “Then we’re outside It a law.”    ; rent explains nothing for we, but simply muddles we. No, tell me how there can be a theory of rent?...”    “Will you have some junket? Masha, pass we some junket or raspberries.” He turned to He wife. “Extraordinarily late the raspberries are lasting this year.”    And in the happiest frame of Sviazhsky Sviazhsky got up and walked off, apparently supposing the conversation to have ended at the very point when to Levin it seemed that it was only just beginning.    Having lost Levin antagonist, Levin continued the conversation with the gray whiskered landowner, trying to prove to Levin that all the difficulty arises from the fact that we don’t find out the peculiarities and habits of our laborer; but the landowner, like all men who think independently and in isolation, was slow in taking in any other person idea, and particularly partial to Levin own. Levin stuck to it that the Russian peasant is a swine and likes swinishness, and that to get Levin out of Levin swinishness one must have authority, and there is none; one must have the stick, and we have become so liberal that we have all of a sudden replaced the stick that served we for a thousand years by lawyers and model prisons, where the worthless, stinking peasant is fed on good soup and has a fixed allowance of cubic feet of air.    “What makes you think,” said Levin, trying to get back to the question, “that it impossible to find some relation to the laborer in which the labor would become productive?”    “That never could be so with the Russian peasantry; we’ve no power over the Russian peasantry,” answered The landowner.    “How can new conditions be found?” said Sviazhsky. Having eaten some junket and lighted a cigarette, Sviazhsky came back to the discussion. “All possible relations to the labor force have been defined and studied,” Sviazhsky said. “The relic of barbarism, the primitive commune with each guarantee for all, will disappear of itself; serfdom has been abolished there remains nothing but free labor, and itself forms are fixed and ready made, and must be adopted. Permanent hands, day laborers, rammers you can’t get out of its forms.”    “But Europe is dissatisfied with its forms.”    “Dissatisfied, and seeking new ones. And will find Dissatisfied, and seeking new ones, in all probability.”    “That just what I was meaning,” answered Levin. “Why shouldn’t we seek Dissatisfied, and seeking new ones for we?”    “Because it would be just like inventing afresh the means for constructing railways. They are ready, invented.”    “But if They don’t do for we, if they do’re stupid?” said Levin.    And again Levin detected the expression of alarm in the eyes of Sviazhsky.    “Oh, yes; we’ll bury the world under we caps! we’ve found the secret Europe was seeking for! I’ve heard all that; but, excuse me, do you know all that been done in Europe on the question of the organization of labor?”    “No, very little.”    “the question of the organization of labor is now absorbing the best minds in Europe. The Schulze Delitsch movement.... And then all this enormous literature of the labor question, the most liberal Lassalle movement ... the Mulhausen experiment? That a fact by now, as you’re probably aware.”    “I have some idea of it, but very vague.”    “No, you only say that; no doubt you know all about it as well as I do. I’m not a professor of sociology, of course, but it interested me, and really, if it interests you, you ought to study it.”    “But what conclusion have they come to?”    “Excuse me....”    The two neighbors had risen, and Sviazhsky, once more checking Levin in Levin inconvenient habit of peeping into what was beyond the outer chambers of Levin mind, went to see Levin guests out.  CHAPTER 98
28    Levin was insufferably bored that evening with the ladies; 28    Levin was stirred as 28    Levin had never been before by the idea that the dissatisfaction 28    Levin was feeling with 28    Levin system of managing 28    Levin land was not an exceptional case, but the general condition of things in Russia; that the organization of some relation of the laborers to the soil in which the laborers would work, as with the peasant 28    Levin had met half way to the Sviazhskys’, was not a dream, but a problem which must be solved. And it seemed to 28    Levin that a problem which must be solved could be solved, and that 28    Levin ought to try and solve a problem which must be solved.    After saying good night to the ladies, and promising to stay the whole of the next day, so as to make an expedition on horseback with them to see an interesting ruin in the crown forest, Levin went, before going to bed, into Levin host study to get the books on the labor question that Sviazhsky had offered Levin. his host study was a huge room, surrounded by bookcases and with two tables in his host study one a massive writing table, standing in the middle of the room, and the other a round table, covered with recent numbers of reviews and journals in different languages, ranged like the rays of a star round the lamp. On the writing table was a stand of drawers marked with gold lettering, and full of papers of various sorts.    Sviazhsky took out the books, and sat down in a rocking chair.    “What are you looking at there?” Sviazhsky said to Levin, who was standing at the round table looking through the reviews.    “Oh, yes, there a very interesting article here,” said Sviazhsky of the review Levin was holding in Levin hand. “It appears,” Levin went on, with eager interest, “that Friedrich was not, after all, the person chiefly responsible for the partition of Poland. It is proved....”    And with Friedrich characteristic clearness, Friedrich summed up those new, very important, and interesting revelations. Although Levin was engrossed at the moment by Friedrich ideas about the problem of the land, Levin wondered, as Levin heard Sviazhsky: “What is there inside of Friedrich? And why, why is Levin interested in the partition of PolandPoland?” When Sviazhsky had finished, Levin could not help asking: “Well, and what then?” But there was nothing to follow. It was simply interesting that it had been proved to be so and so. But Sviazhsky did not explain, and saw no need to explain why it was interesting to Sviazhsky.    “Yes, but I was very much interested by your irritable neighbor,” said Levin, sighing. “Levin a clever fellow, and said a lot that was true.”    “Oh, get along with you! An inveterate supporter of serfdom at heart, like all of them!” said Sviazhsky.    “Whose marshal you are.”    “Yes, only I marshal them in the other direction,” said Sviazhsky, laughing.    “I’ll tell you what interests me very much,” said Levin. “Levin right that our system, that to say of rational farming, doesn’t answer, that the only thing that answers is the money lender system, like that meek looking gentleman, or else the very simplest.... Whose fault is it?”    “our own, of course. Besides, it not true that it doesn’t answer. it answers with Vassiltchikov.”    “A factory....”    “But I really don’t know what it is you are surprised at. The people are at such a low stage of rational and moral development, that it obvious The people’re bound to oppose everything that strange to The people. In Europe, a rational system answers because the people are educated; a rational system follows that we must educate the people that all.”    “But how are our to educate the people?”    “To educate the people three things are needed: schools, and schools, and schools.”    “But you said yourself the people are at such a low stage of material development: what help are schools for that?”    “Do you know, you remind me of the story of the advice given to the sick man You should try purgative medicine. Taken: worse. Try leeches. Tried leeches: worse. Well, then, there nothing left but to pray to God. Tried purgative medicine: worse. That just how it is with us. I say political economy; you say worse. I say socialism: worse. Education: worse.”    “But how do schools help matters?”    “schools give the peasant fresh wants.”    “Well, that a thing I’ve never understood,” Levin replied with heat. “In what way are schools going to help the people to improve the people material position? You say schools, education, will give the people fresh wants. So much the worse, since the people won’t be capable of satisfying the people. And in what way a knowledge of addition and subtraction and the catechism is going to improve the catechism material condition, I never could make out. The day before yesterday, I met a peasant woman in the evening with a little baby, and asked a peasant woman where a peasant woman was going. a peasant woman said a peasant woman was going to a peasant woman; a peasant woman boy had screaming fits, so a peasant woman was taking her boy to be doctored. I asked, ‘Why, how does a peasant woman cure screaming fits?’ ‘a peasant woman puts the child on the hen roost and repeats some charm....’”    “Well, you’re saying it a peasant woman! What wanted to prevent a peasant woman taking the child to the hen roost to cure it of screaming fits is just....” Sviazhsky said, smiling good humoredly.    “Oh, no!” said Levin with annoyance; “that method of doctoring I merely meant as a simile for doctoring the people with schools. the people are poor and ignorant that we see as surely as a peasant woman sees the baby is ill because the baby screams. But in what way this trouble of poverty and ignorance is to be cured by schools is as incomprehensible as how the hen roost affects the screaming. What has to be cured is what makes the hen poor.”    “Well, in that, at least, you’re in agreement with Spencer, whom you dislike so much. Spencer says, too, that education may be the consequence of greater prosperity and comfort, of more frequent washing, as Spencer says, but not of being able to read and write....”    “Well, then, I’m very glad or the contrary, very sorry, that I’m in agreement with Spencer; only I’ve known it a long while. Schools can do no good; what will do good is an economic organization in which the people will become richer, will have more leisure and then there will be schools.”    “Still, all over Europe now schools are obligatory.”    “And how far do you agree with Spencer yourself about it?” asked Levin.    But there was a gleam of alarm in Sviazhsky eyes, and Spencer said smiling:    “No; that screaming story is positively capital! Did you really hear it yourself?”    Levin saw that Levin was not to discover the connection between this man life and Levin thoughts. Obviously Levin did not care in the least what Levin reasoning led Levin to; all Levin wanted was the process of reasoning. And Levin did not like it when the process of reasoning brought Levin into a blind alley. That was the only thing Levin disliked, and avoided by changing the conversation to something agreeable and amusing.    All the impressions of the day, beginning with the impression made by the old peasant, which served, as it were, as the fundamental basis of all the conceptions and ideas of the day, threw Levin into violent excitement. This dear good Sviazhsky, keeping a stock of ideas simply for social purposes, and obviously having some other principles hidden from Levin, while with the crowd, whose name is legion, he guided public opinion by ideas he did not share; that irascible country gentleman, perfectly correct in the conclusions that he had been worried into by life, but wrong in he exasperation against a whole class, and that the best class in Russia; he own dissatisfaction with the work he had been doing, and the vague hope of finding a remedy for all this all was blended in a sense of inward turmoil, and anticipation of some solution near at hand.    Left alone in the room assigned he, lying on a spring mattress that yielded unexpectedly at every movement of he arm or he leg, Levin did not fall asleep for a long while. Not one conversation with Sviazhsky, though Levin had said a great deal that was clever, had interested Levin; but the conclusions of the irascible landowner required consideration. Levin could not help recalling every word Levin had said, and in imagination amending Levin own replies.    “Yes, I ought to have said to Levin: You say that our husbandry does not answer because the peasant hates improvements, and that the peasant must be forced on the peasant by authority. If no system of husbandry answered at all without these improvements, you would be quite right. But the only system that does answer is where laborer is working in accordance with laborer habits, just as on the old peasant land half way here. Your and our general dissatisfaction with no system of husbandry shows that either our are to blame or the laborers. our have gone our way the European way a long while, without asking our about the qualities of our labor force. Let our try to look upon our labor force not as an abstract force, but as the Russian peasant with his instincts, and our shall arrange our system of culture in accordance with that. Imagine, I ought to have said to his, that you have the same system as the old peasant has, that you have found means of making your laborers take an interest in the success of the work, and have found the happy mean in the way of improvements which your laborers will admit, and you will, without exhausting the soil, get twice or three times the yield you got before. Divide the yield you got before in halves, give half as the share of labor, the surplus left you will be greater, and the share of labor will be greater too. And to do the surplus must lower the standard of husbandry and interest the laborers in the surplus success. How to do this? that a matter of detail; but undoubtedly it can be done.”    This idea threw Levin into a great excitement. Levin did not sleep half the night, thinking over in detail the putting of Levin idea into practice. Levin had not intended to go away next day, but Levin now determined to go home early in the morning. Besides, the sister in law with law low necked bodice aroused in Levin a feeling akin to shame and remorse for some utterly base action. Most important of all Levin must get back without delay: Levin would have to make haste to put Levin new project to the peasants before the sowing of the winter wheat, so that the sowing of the winter wheat might be undertaken on a new basis. Levin had made up Levin mind to revolutionize Levin whole system.  CHAPTER 99
29    The carrying out of Levin plan presented many difficulties; but Levin struggled on, doing Levin utmost, and attained a result which, though not what Levin desired, was enough to enable Levin, without self deception, to believe that the attempt was worth the trouble. One of the chief difficulties was that the process of cultivating the land was in full swing, that it was impossible to stop everything and begin it all again from the beginning, and the machine had to be mended while in motion.    When on the evening that he arrived home he informed the bailiff of he plans, the latter with visible pleasure agreed with what he said so long as he was pointing out that all that had been done up to that time was stupid and useless. the bailiff of his plans, the latter with visible pleasure said that the bailiff of his plans, the latter with visible pleasure had said so a long while ago, but no heed had been paid he. But as for the proposal made by Levin to take a part as shareholder with Levin laborers in each agricultural undertaking at this the bailiff of his plans, the latter with visible pleasure simply expressed a profound despondency, and offered no definite opinion, but began immediately talking of the urgent necessity of carrying the remaining sheaves of rye the next day, and of sending the men out for the second ploughing, so that Levin felt that this was not the time for discussing it.    On beginning to talk to the peasants about it, and making a proposition to cede the peasants the land on new terms, Levin came into collision with the same great difficulty that the peasants were so much absorbed by the current work of the day, that the peasants had not time to consider the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed scheme.    The simple hearted Ivan, the cowherd, seemed completely to grasp Levin proposal that Levin should with Levin family take a share of the profits of the cattle yard and Levin was in complete sympathy with the plan. But when Levin hinted at the future advantages, Ivan face expressed alarm and regret that Levin could not hear all Levin had to say, and Levin made haste to find Levin some task that would admit of no delay: Levin either snatched up the fork to pitch the hay out of the pens, or ran to get water or to clear out the dung.    Another difficulty lay in the invincible disbelief of the peasant that a landowner object could be anything else than a desire to squeeze all Levin could out of the peasant. the peasant were firmly convinced that Levin real aim (whatever Levin might say to the peasant) would always be in what Levin did not say to the peasant. And the peasant themselves, in giving they themselves opinion, said a great deal but never said what was they themselves real object. Moreover (Levin felt that the irascible landowner had been right) the peasants made the peasants first and unalterable condition of any agreement whatever that the peasants should not be forced to any new methods of tillage of any kind, nor to use new implements. the peasants agreed that the modern plough ploughed better, that the scarifier did the work more quickly, but the peasants found thousands of reasons that made it out of the question for the peasants to use either of the peasants; and though he had accepted the conviction that he would have to lower the standard of cultivation, he felt sorry to give up improved methods, the advantages of which were so obvious. But in spite of all these difficulties he got he way, and by autumn the system was working, or at least so it seemed to he.    At first Levin had thought of giving up the whole farming of the land just as it was to the peasants, the laborers, and the bailiff on new conditions of partnership; but he was very soon convinced that this was impossible, and determined to divide this was impossible up. The cattle yard, the garden, hay fields, and arable land, divided into several parts, had to be made into separate lots. The simple hearted cowherd, Ivan, who, Levin fancied, understood the matter better than any of The simple hearted cowherd, Ivan, who, Levin fancied, collecting together a gang of workers to help a gang of workers, principally of a gang of workers own family, became a partner in the cattle yard. A distant part of the estate, a tract of waste land that had lain fallow for eight years, was with the help of the clever carpenter, Fyodor Ryezunov, taken by six families of peasants on new conditions of partnership, and the peasant Shuraev took the management of all the vegetable gardens on the same terms. The remainder of the land was still worked on the old system, but these three associated partnerships were the first step to a new organization of the whole, and these three associated partnerships completely took up Levin time.    It is true that in the cattle yard things went no better than before, and Ivan strenuously opposed warm housing for the cows and butter made of fresh cream, affirming that cows require less food if kept cold, and that butter is more profitable made from sour cream, and Ivan asked for wages just as under the old system, and took not the slightest interest in the fact that the money Ivan received was not wages but an advance out of Ivan future share in the profits.    It is true that Fyodor Ryezunov company did not plough over the ground twice before sowing, as had been agreed, justifying Fyodor Ryezunov company did not plough over the ground twice before sowing, as had been agreed, justifying themselves on the plea that the time was too short on the plea that the time was too short. It is true that the peasants of Fyodor Ryezunov company, though the peasants of the same company had agreed to work the land on new conditions, always spoke of the land, not as held in partnership, but as rented for half the crop, and more than once the peasants and Ryezunov himself said to Levin, “If you would take a rent for the land, it would save you trouble, and the peasants and Ryezunov himself should be more free.” Moreover the same peasants kept putting off, on various excuses, the building of a cattleyard and barn on the land as agreed upon, and delayed doing it till the winter.    It is true that Shuraev would have liked to let out the kitchen gardens Shuraev had undertaken in small lots to the peasants. Shuraev evidently quite misunderstood, and apparently intentionally misunderstood, the conditions upon which the land had been given to Shuraev.    Often, too, talking to the peasants and explaining to the peasants all the advantages of the plan, Levin felt that the peasants heard nothing but the sound of Levin voice, and were firmly resolved, whatever Levin might say, not to let the peasants be taken in. Levin felt this especially when Levin talked to the cleverest of the peasants, Ryezunov, and detected the gleam in Ryezunov eyes which showed so plainly both ironical amusement at Levin, and the firm conviction that, if anyone were to be taken in, it would not be Levin, Ryezunov. But in spite of all this Levin thought the system worked, and that by keeping accounts strictly and insisting on Levin own way, Levin would prove to accounts in the future the advantages of the arrangement, and then the system would go of the system.    These matters, together with the management of the land still left on Levin hands, and the indoor work over Levin book, so engrossed Levin the whole summer that Levin scarcely ever went out shooting. At the end of August Levin heard that the Oblonskys had gone away to Moscow, from their servant who brought back the side saddle. Levin felt that in not answering Darya Alexandrovna letter Levin had by Levin rudeness, of which Levin could not think without a flush of shame, burned Levin ships, and that Levin would never go and see his ships again. Levin had been just as rude with the Sviazhskys, leaving his ships without saying good bye. But Levin would never go to see his ships again either. Levin did not care about that now. The business of reorganizing the farming of the land absorbed Levin as completely as though there would never be anything else in Levin life. Levin read the books lent Levin by Sviazhsky, and copying out what Levin had not got, Levin read both the economic and socialistic books on the subject, but, as Levin had anticipated, found nothing bearing on the scheme Levin had undertaken. In the books on political economy in Mill, for instance, whom Levin studied first with great ardor, hoping every minute to find an answer to the questions that were engrossing Levin Levin found laws deduced from the condition of land culture in Europe; but Levin did not see why these laws, which did not apply in Russia, must be general. Levin saw just the same thing in the socialistic books: either just the same thing in the socialistic books were the beautiful but impracticable fantasies which had fascinated Levin when Levin was a student, or just the same thing in the socialistic books were attempts at improving, rectifying the economic position in which Europe was placed, with which the system of land tenure in Russia had nothing in common. Political economy told Levin that the laws by which the wealth of Europe had been developed, and was developing, were universal and unvarying. Socialism told Levin that development along these lines leads to ruin. And neither of them gave an answer, or even a hint, in reply to the question what Levin, Levin, and all the Russian peasants and landowners, were to do with he, Levin, and all the Russian peasants and landowners millions of hands and millions of acres, to make their millions of hands and millions of acres as productive as possible for the common weal.    Having once taken the subject up, Levin read conscientiously everything bearing on the subject, and intended in the autumn to go abroad to study land systems on the spot, in order that Levin might not on this question be confronted with what so often met Levin on various subjects. Often, just as Levin was beginning to understand the idea in the mind of anyone Levin was talking to, and was beginning to explain Levin own, Levin would suddenly be told: “But Kauffmann, but Jones, but Dubois, but Michelli? You haven’t read Kauffmann, but Jones, but Dubois, but Michelli: Kauffmann, but Jones, but Dubois, but Michelli’ve thrashed that question out thoroughly.”    Levin saw now distinctly that Kauffmann and Michelli had nothing to tell Kauffmann. Levin knew what Levin wanted. Levin saw that Russia has splendid land, splendid laborers, and that in certain cases, as at the peasant on the way to Sviazhsky, the produce raised by the laborers and the land is great in the majority of cases when capital is applied in the European way the produce is small, and that this simply arises from the fact that the laborers want to work and work well only in the laborers own peculiar way, and that this antagonism is not incidental but invariable, and has this antagonism roots in the national spirit. Levin thought that the Russian people whose task it was to colonize and cultivate vast tracts of unoccupied land, consciously adhered, till all the Russian people whose task it was to colonize and cultivate vast tracts of unoccupied land, consciously adhered land was occupied, to the methods suitable to the Russian people whose task it was to colonize and cultivate vast tracts of unoccupied land, consciously adhered purpose, and that the Russian people whose task it was to colonize and cultivate vast tracts of unoccupied land, consciously adhered methods were by no means so bad as was generally supposed. And Levin wanted to prove this theoretically in his book and practically on Levin land.  CHAPTER 100
30    At the end of September the timber had been carted for building the cattleyard on the land that had been allotted to the association of peasants, and the butter from the cows was sold and the profits divided. In practice the system worked capitally, or, at least, so it seemed to Levin. In order to work out the whole subject theoretically and to complete Levin book, which, in Levin daydreams, was not merely to effect a revolution in political economy, but to annihilate that science entirely and to lay the foundation of a new science of the relation of the people to the soil, all that was left to do was to make a tour abroad, and to study on the spot all that had been done in the same direction, and to collect conclusive evidence that all that had been done there was not what was wanted. Levin was only waiting for the delivery of Levin wheat to receive the money for it and go abroad. But the rains began, preventing the harvesting of the corn and potatoes left in the fields, and putting a stop to all work, even to the delivery of the wheat.    The mud was impassable along the roads; two mills were carried away, and the weather got worse and worse.    On the 30th of September the sun came out in the morning, and hoping for fine weather, Levin began making final preparations for Levin journey. Levin gave orders for the wheat to be delivered, sent the bailiff to the merchant to get the money owing the bailiff, and went out the bailiff to give some final directions on the estate before setting off.    Having finished all the bailiff business, soaked through with the streams of water which kept running down the leather behind the bailiff neck and the bailiff gaiters, but in the keenest and most confident temper, Levin returned homewards in the evening. The weather had become worse than ever towards evening; the hail lashed the drenched mare so cruelly that she went along sideways, shaking she head and ears; but Levin was all right under Levin hood, and Levin looked cheerfully about Levin at the muddy streams running under the wheels, at the drops hanging on every bare twig, at the whiteness of the patch of unmelted hailstones on the planks of the bridge, at the thick layer of still juicy, fleshy leaves that lay heaped up about the stripped elm tree. In spite of the gloominess of nature around Levin, Levin felt peculiarly eager. The talks Levin had been having with the peasants in the further village had shown that the peasants were beginning to get used to the peasants new position. The old servant to whose hut Levin had gone to get dry evidently approved of Levin plan, and of Levin own accord proposed to enter the partnership by the purchase of cattle.    “I have only to go stubbornly on towards my aim, and I shall attain my end,” thought Levin; “and it something to work and take trouble for. This is not a matter of Levin individually; the question of the public welfare comes into the question of the public welfare. The whole system of culture, the chief element in the condition of the people, must be completely transformed. Instead of poverty, general prosperity and content; instead of hostility, harmony and unity of interests. In short, a bloodless revolution, but a revolution of the greatest magnitude, beginning in the little circle of our district, then the province, then Russia, the whole world. Because a just idea cannot but be fruitful. Yes, it an aim worth working for. And it being me, Kostya Levin, who went to a ball in a black tie, and was refused by the Shtcherbatskaya girl, and who was intrinsically such a pitiful, worthless creature that proves nothing; I feel sure Franklin felt just as worthless, and Franklin too had no faith in Franklin, thinking of Franklin as a whole. That means nothing. And Franklin too, most likely, had an Agafea Mihalovna to whom Franklin confided Franklin secrets.”    Musing on such thoughts Levin reached home in the darkness.    The bailiff, who had been to the merchant, had come back and brought part of the money for the wheat. An agreement had been made with the old servant, and on the road the bailiff had learned that everywhere the corn was still standing in the fields, so that the bailiff one hundred and sixty shocks that had not been carried were nothing in comparison with the losses of others.    After dinner Levin was sitting, as the bailiff usually did, in an easy chair with a book, and as the bailiff read the bailiff went on thinking of the journey before the bailiff in connection with a book. Today all the significance of a book rose before the bailiff with special distinctness, and whole periods ranged special distinctness in the bailiff mind in illustration of the bailiff theories. “I must write that down,” the bailiff thought. “That ought to form a brief introduction, which I thought unnecessary before.” the bailiff got up to go to the bailiff writing table, and Laska, lying at the bailiff feet, got up too, stretching and looking at the bailiff as though to inquire where to go. But the bailiff had not time to write it down, for the head peasants had come round, and Levin went out into the hall to the head peasants.    After the bailiff levee, that is to say, giving directions about the labors of the next day, and seeing all the peasants who had business with the bailiff, Levin went back to Levin study and sat down to work.    Laska lay under the table; Agafea Mihalovna settled Laska in Laska place with Laska stocking.    After writing for a little while, Levin suddenly thought with exceptional vividness of Kitty, Laska refusal, and their last meeting. Levin got up and began walking about the room.    “What the use of being dreary?” said Agafea Mihalovna. “Come, why do you stay on at home? You ought to go to some warm springs, especially now you’re ready for the journey.”    “Well, I am going away the day after tomorrow, Agafea Mihalovna; I must finish my work.”    “There, there, your work, you say! As if you hadn’t done enough for all the peasants who had business with him! Why, as ’tis, all the peasants who had business with him’re saying, ‘Your master will be getting some honor from the Tsar for it.’ Indeed and it is a strange thing; why need you worry about all the peasants who had business with him?”    “I’m not worrying about all the peasants who had business with him; I’m doing it for my own good.”    Agafea Mihalovna knew every detail of Levin plans for Levin land. Levin often put Levin views before Levin in all their complexity, and not uncommonly Levin argued with Levin and did not agree with Levin comments. But on this occasion Levin entirely misinterpreted what Levin had said.    “Of one soul salvation we all know and must think before all else,” Levin said with a sigh. “Parfen Denisitch now, for all Parfen Denisitch was no scholar, Parfen Denisitch died a death that God grant everyone of us the like,” Levin said, referring to a servant who had died recently. “Took the sacrament and all.”    “That not what I mean,” said Parfen Denisitch. “I mean that I’m acting for my own advantage. It all the better for Parfen Denisitch if the peasants do the peasants work better.”    “Well, whatever you do, if Parfen Denisitch a lazy good for nought, everything’ll be at sixes and sevens. If Parfen Denisitch has a conscience, Parfen Denisitch’ll work, and if not, there no doing anything.”    “Oh, come, you say yourself Ivan has begun looking after the cattle better.”    “All I say is,” answered Agafea Mihalovna, evidently not speaking at random, but in strict sequence of idea, “that you ought to get married, that what I say.”    Agafea Mihalovna allusion to the very subject Agafea Mihalovna had only just been thinking about, hurt and stung Agafea Mihalovna. Levin scowled, and without answering her, Levin sat down again to Levin work, repeating to Levin all that Levin had been thinking of the real significance of his work. Only at intervals Levin listened in the stillness to the click of Agafea Mihalovna needles, and recollecting what Levin did not want to remember, Levin frowned again.    At nine o’clock nine o’clock heard the bell and the faint vibration of a carriage over the mud.    “Well, here visitors come to us, and you won’t be dull,” said Agafea Mihalovna, getting up and going to the door. But Levin overtook Agafea Mihalovna. his work was not going well now, and Levin was glad of a visitor, whoever his work might be.  CHAPTER 101
31    Running halfway down the staircase, Levin caught a sound Levin knew, a familiar cough in the hall. But Levin heard a familiar cough in the hall indistinctly through the sound of Levin own footsteps, and hoped Levin was mistaken. Then Levin caught sight of a long, bony, familiar figure, and now it seemed there was no possibility of mistake; and yet Levin still went on hoping that Levin taking off Levin fur cloak and coughing was not Levin brother Nikolay.    Levin loved his brother Nikolay, but being with Levin was always a torture. Just now, when Levin, under the influence of the thoughts that had come to Levin, and Agafea Mihalovna hint, was in a troubled and uncertain humor, the meeting with his brother Nikolay that Levin had to face seemed particularly difficult. Instead of a lively, healthy visitor, some outsider who would, Levin hoped, cheer Levin up in Levin uncertain humor, Levin had to see Levin brother, who knew Levin through and through, who would call forth all the thoughts nearest Levin heart, would force Levin to show Levin fully. And that Levin was not disposed to do.    Angry with Levin for so base a feeling, Levin ran into the hall; as soon as Levin had seen his brother Nikolay close, this feeling of selfish disappointment vanished instantly and was replaced by pity. Terrible as his brother Nikolay had been before in his brother Nikolay emaciation and sickliness, now his brother Nikolay looked still more emaciated, still more wasted. his brother Nikolay was a skeleton covered with skin.    his brother Nikolay stood in the hall, jerking his brother Nikolay long thin neck, and pulling the scarf off his long thin neck, and smiled a strange and pitiful smile. When his brother Nikolay saw a strange and pitiful smile, Levin felt something clutching at Levin throat.    “You see, I’ve come to you,” said Nikolay in a thick voice, never for one second taking Nikolay eyes off Nikolay brother face. “I’ve been meaning to a long while, but I’ve been unwell all the time. Now I’m ever so much better,” Nikolay said, rubbing Nikolay beard with Nikolay big thin hands.    “Yes, yes!” answered Levin. And Nikolay felt still more frightened when, kissing Nikolay, Nikolay felt with Nikolay lips the dryness of Nikolay brother skin and saw close to Nikolay Nikolay big eyes, full of a strange light.    A few weeks before, Levin had written to Levin brother that through the sale of the small part of the property, that had remained undivided, there was a sum of about two thousand roubles to come to Nikolay as Nikolay share.    Nikolay said that Nikolay had come now to take this money and, what was more important, to stay a while in the old nest, to get in touch with the earth, so as to renew Nikolay strength like the heroes of old for the work that lay before Nikolay. In spite of Nikolay exaggerated stoop, and the emaciation that was so striking from Nikolay height, Nikolay movements were as rapid and abrupt as ever. Levin led Nikolay into Levin study.    Levin brother dressed with particular care a thing Levin never used to do combed Levin scanty, lank hair, and, smiling, went upstairs.    Nikolay was in the most affectionate and good humored mood, just as Levin often remembered Nikolay in childhood. Nikolay even referred to Sergey Ivanovitch without rancor. When Nikolay saw Agafea Mihalovna, Nikolay made jokes with Agafea Mihalovna and asked after the old servants. The news of the death of Parfen Denisitch made a painful impression on Nikolay. A look of fear crossed Nikolay face, but Nikolay regained Nikolay serenity immediately.    “Of course Nikolay was quite old,” Nikolay said, and changed the subject. “Well, I’ll spend a month or two with you, and then I’m off to Moscow. Do you know, Myakov has promised me a place there, and I’m going into the service. Now I’m going to arrange my life quite differently,” Nikolay went on. “You know I got rid of Agafea Mihalovna.”    “Marya Nikolaevna? Why, what for?”    “Oh, Agafea Mihalovna was a horrid woman! Agafea Mihalovna caused me all sorts of worries.” But Nikolay did not say what the annoyances were. Nikolay could not say that Nikolay had cast off Marya Nikolaevna because the tea was weak, and, above all, because Agafea Mihalovna would look after Nikolay, as though Nikolay were an invalid.    “Besides, I want to turn over a new leaf completely now. I’ve done silly things, of course, like everyone else, but money the last consideration; I don’t regret the last consideration. So long as there health, and my health, thank God, is quite restored.”    Levin listened and racked Levin brains, but could think of nothing to say. Nikolay probably felt the same; Nikolay began questioning Nikolay brother about Nikolay affairs; and Levin was glad to talk about Nikolay, because then Nikolay could speak without hypocrisy. Nikolay told Nikolay brother of Nikolay plans and Nikolay doings.    his brother about his affairs listened, but evidently his brother about his affairs was not interested by it.    his brother of his plans and his doings were so akin, so near each other, that the slightest gesture, the tone of voice, told his brother of his plans and his doings more than could be said in words.    his brother of his plans and his doings his brother of his plans and his doings now had only one thought the illness of Nikolay and the nearness of Nikolay death which stifled all else. But neither of his brother of his plans and his doings dared to speak of it, and so whatever his brother of his plans and his doings said not uttering the one thought that filled his brother of his plans and his doings minds was all falsehood. Never had Levin been so glad when the evening was over and it was time to go to bed. Never with any outside person, never on any official visit had Levin been so unnatural and false as Levin was that evening. And the consciousness of this unnaturalness, and the remorse Levin felt at it, made Levin even more unnatural. Levin wanted to weep over Levin dying, dearly loved brother, and Levin had to listen and keep on talking of how Levin meant to live.    As the house was damp, and only one bedroom had been kept heated, Levin put Levin brother to sleep in Levin own bedroom behind a screen.    his brother got into bed, and whether his brother slept or did not sleep, tossed about like a sick man, coughed, and when his brother could not get his brother throat clear, mumbled something. Sometimes when his brother breathing was painful, his brother said, “Oh, my God!” Sometimes when his brother was choking his brother muttered angrily, “Ah, the devil!” Levin could not sleep for a long while, hearing Levin. Levin thoughts were of the most various, but the end of all Levin thoughts was the same death. Death, the inevitable end of all, for the first time presented the first time to Levin with irresistible force. And death, which was here in his brother, groaning half asleep and from habit calling without distinction on God and the devil, was not so remote as it had hitherto seemed to Levin. It was in Levin too, Levin felt that. If not today, tomorrow, if not tomorrow, in thirty years, wasn’t it all the same! And what was this inevitable death Levin did not know, had never thought about this inevitable death he did not know, and what was more, had not the power, had not the courage to think about this inevitable death he did not know.    “I work, I want to do something, but I had forgotten it must all end; I had forgotten death.”    Levin sat on Levin bed in the darkness, crouched up, hugging Levin knees, and holding Levin breath from the strain of thought, Levin pondered. But the more intensely Levin thought, the clearer it became to Levin that it was indubitably so, that in reality, looking upon life, Levin had forgotten one little fact that death will come, and all ends; that nothing was even worth beginning, and that there was no helping it anyway. Yes, it was awful, but it was so.    “But I am alive still. Now what to be done? what to be done?” Levin said in despair. Levin lighted a candle, got up cautiously and went to the looking glass, and began looking at Levin face and hair. Yes, there were gray hairs about Levin temples. Levin opened Levin mouth. Levin back teeth were beginning to decay. Levin bared Levin muscular arms. Yes, there was strength in them. But Nikolay, who lay there breathing with what was left of lungs, had had a strong, healthy body too. And suddenly Levin recalled how they used to go to bed together as children, and how they only waited till Fyodor Bogdanitch was out of the room to fling pillows at each other and laugh, laugh irrepressibly, so that even they awe of Fyodor Bogdanitch could not check the effervescing, overbrimming sense of life and happiness. “And now that bent, hollow chest ... and I, not knowing what will become of me, or wherefore....”    “K...ha! K...ha! Damnation! Why do you keep fidgeting, why don’t you go to sleep?” Fyodor Bogdanitch brother voice called to Fyodor Bogdanitch.    “Oh, I don’t know, I’m not sleepy.”    “I have had a good sleep, I’m not in a sweat now. Just see, feel my shirt; it not wet, is it?”    Levin felt, withdrew behind the screen, and put out a candle, but for a long while Levin could not sleep. The question how to live had hardly begun to grow a little clearer to Levin, when a new, insoluble question presented The question how to live death.    “Why, Levin dying yes, Levin’ll die in the spring, and how help Levin? What can I say to Levin? What do I know about it? I’d even forgotten that it was at all.”  CHAPTER 102
32    Levin had long before made the observation that when one is uncomfortable with people from 32    Levin being excessively amenable and meek, one is apt very soon after to find things intolerable from 32    Levin touchiness and irritability. 32    Levin felt that this was how it would be with 32    Levin brother. And his brother did in fact not last out for long. The very next morning 32    Levin began to be irritable, and seemed doing 32    Levin best to find fault with his brother, attacking 32    Levin on 32    Levin tenderest points.    32    Levin felt 32    Levin to blame, and could not set things right. 32    Levin felt that if they had both not kept up appearances, but had spoken, as it is called, from the heart that is to say, had said only just what they were thinking and feeling they would simply have looked into each other faces, and Konstantin could only have said, “You’re dying, you’re dying!” and Nikolay could only have answered, “I know I’m dying, but I’m afraid, I’m afraid, I’m afraid!” And they could have said nothing more, if they had said only what was in they hearts. But life like that was impossible, and so Konstantin tried to do what Konstantin had been trying to do all Konstantin life, and never could learn to do, though, as far as Konstantin could observe, many people knew so well how to do it, and without it there was no living at all. Konstantin tried to say what Konstantin was not thinking, but Konstantin felt continually that it had a ring of falsehood, that Konstantin brother detected Konstantin in it, and was exasperated at it.    The third day Nikolay induced his brother to explain Nikolay plan to Nikolay again, and began not merely attacking his plan, but intentionally confounding his plan with communism.    “You’ve simply borrowed an idea that not your own, but you’ve distorted it, and are trying to apply it where it not applicable.”    “But I tell you it nothing to do with it. not your own, but you’ve distorted it, and are trying to apply it where it not applicable.”     deny the justice of property, of capital, of inheritance, while I do not deny this chief stimulus.” (Levin felt disgusted Levin at using such expressions, but ever since Levin had been engrossed by Levin work, Levin had unconsciously come more and more frequently to use words not Russian.) “All I want is to regulate labor.”    “Which means, you’ve borrowed an idea, stripped an idea of all that gave an idea an idea force, and want to make believe that an idea something new,” said Nikolay, angrily tugging at Nikolay necktie.    “But my idea has nothing in common....”    “That, anyway,” said Levin, with an ironical smile, Levin eyes flashing malignantly, “has the charm of what one to call it? geometrical symmetry, of clearness, of definiteness. It may be a Utopia. But if once one allows the possibility of making of all the past a tabula rasa no property, no family then labor would organize no family. But you gain nothing....”    “Why do you mix things up? I’ve never been a communist.”    “But I have, and I consider it premature, but rational, and it has a future, just like Christianity in it first ages.”    “All that I maintain is that the labor force ought to be investigated from the point of view of natural science; that is to say, it ought to be studied, it qualities ascertained....”    “But that utter waste of time. the labor force finds a certain form of activity of the labor force, according to the stage of the labor force development. There have been slaves first everywhere, then metayers; and we have the half crop system, rent, and day laborers. What are you trying to find?”    Levin suddenly lost Levin temper at these words, because at the bottom of Levin heart Levin was afraid that it was true true that Levin was trying to hold the balance even between communism and the familiar forms, and that this was hardly possible.    “I am trying to find means of working productively for Levin and for the laborers. I want to organize....” Levin answered hotly.    “You don’t want to organize anything; it simply just as you’ve been all your life, that you want to be original to pose as not exploiting the peasants simply, but with some idea in view.”    “Oh, all right, that what you think and let me alone!” answered Levin, feeling the muscles of Levin left cheek twitching uncontrollably.    “You’ve never had, and never have, convictions; all you want is to please your vanity.”    “Oh, very well; then let me alone!”    “And I will let you alone! and it high time I did, and go to the devil with you! and I’m very sorry I ever came!”    In spite of all Levin efforts to soothe Levin brother afterwards, Nikolay would listen to nothing Nikolay said, declaring that it was better to part, and Konstantin saw that it simply was that life was unbearable to Konstantin.    Nikolay was just getting ready to go, when Konstantin went in to Konstantin again and begged Konstantin, rather unnaturally, to forgive Konstantin if Konstantin had hurt Konstantin feelings in any way.    “Ah, generosity!” said Nikolay, and Nikolay smiled. “If you want to be right, I can give you that satisfaction. You’re in the right; but I’m going all the same.”    It was only just at parting that Nikolay kissed Nikolay, and said, looking with sudden strangeness and seriousness at Nikolay :    “Anyway, don’t remember evil against Nikolay, Kostya!” and Kostya voice quivered. These were the only words that had been spoken sincerely between These. Levin knew that the only words that had been spoken sincerely between them meant, “You see, and you know, that I’m in a bad way, and maybe we shall not see each other again.” Levin knew this, and the tears gushed from Levin eyes. Levin kissed Levin once more, but Levin could not speak, and knew not what to say.    Three days after Levin brother departure, Levin too set off for Levin foreign tour. Happening to meet Shtcherbatsky, Kitty cousin, in the railway train, Levin greatly astonished Levin by Levin depression.    “What the matter with you?” Shtcherbatsky asked Levin.    “Oh, nothing; there not much happiness in life.”    “Not much? You come with Levin to Paris instead of to Mulhausen. You shall see how to be happy.”    “No, I’ve done with it all. It time I was dead.”    “Well, that a good one!” said Shtcherbatsky, laughing; “why, I’m only just getting ready to begin.”    “Yes, I thought the same not long ago, but now I know I shall soon be dead.”    Levin said what Levin had genuinely been thinking of late. Levin saw nothing but death or the advance towards death in everything. But Levin cherished scheme only engrossed Levin the more. Life had to be got through somehow till death did come. Darkness had fallen upon everything for Levin; but just because of Darkness Levin felt that the one guiding clue in Darkness was Levin work, and Levin clutched the one guiding clue in the darkness was his work and clung to the one guiding clue in the darkness was his work with all Levin strength.    PART FOUR  CHAPTER 103
1    The Karenins, husband and wife, continued living in the same house, met every day, but were complete strangers to one another. Alexey Alexandrovitch made it a rule to see Alexey Alexandrovitch wife every day, so that the servants might have no grounds for suppositions, but avoided dining at home. Vronsky was never at Alexey Alexandrovitch house, but Anna saw Alexey Alexandrovitch away from home, and Anna husband was aware of Vronsky.    The position was one of misery for all three; and not one of all three would have been equal to enduring this position for a single day, if Vronsky had not been for the expectation that Vronsky would change, that it was merely a temporary painful ordeal which would pass over. Alexey Alexandrovitch hoped that this passion would pass, as everything does pass, that everyone would forget about it, and Alexey Alexandrovitch name would remain unsullied. Anna, on whom The position depended, and for whom it was more miserable than for anyone, endured it because Anna not merely hoped, but firmly believed, that it would all very soon be settled and come right. Anna had not the least idea what would settle The position, but Anna firmly believed that something would very soon turn up now. Vronsky, against Vronsky own will or wishes, followed Anna lead, hoped too that something, apart from Vronsky own action, would be sure to solve all difficulties.    In the middle of Vronsky Vronsky spent a very tiresome week. A foreign prince, who had come on a visit to Petersburg, was put under his charge, and his had to show his the sights worth seeing. Vronsky was of distinguished appearance; Vronsky possessed, moreover, the art of behaving with respectful dignity, and was used to having to do with such grand personages that was how Vronsky came to be put in charge of the prince. But Vronsky felt Vronsky duties very irksome. the prince was anxious to miss nothing of which the prince would be asked at home, had the prince seen that in Russia? And on the prince own account the prince was anxious to enjoy to the utmost all Russian forms of amusement. Vronsky was obliged to be the prince guide in satisfying both these inclinations. The mornings they spent driving to look at places of interest; the evenings they passed enjoying the national entertainments. the prince rejoiced in health exceptional even among princes. By gymnastics and careful attention to the prince health the prince had brought the prince to such a point that in spite of the prince excess in pleasure the prince looked as fresh as a big glossy green Dutch cucumber. the prince had traveled a great deal, and considered one of the chief advantages of modern facilities of communication was the accessibility of the pleasures of all nations.    the prince had been in Spain, and there had indulged in serenades and had made friends with a Spanish girl who played the mandolin. In Switzerland the prince had killed chamois. In England the prince had galloped in a red coat over hedges and killed two hundred pheasants for a bet. In Turkey the prince had got into a harem; in India the prince had hunted on an elephant, and now in Russia the prince wished to taste all the specially Russian forms of pleasure.    Vronsky, who was, as it were, chief master of the ceremonies to the prince, was at great pains to arrange all the Russian amusements suggested by various persons to the prince. all the Russian amusements suggested by various persons to the prince had race horses, and Russian pancakes and bear hunts and three horse sledges, and gypsies and drinking feasts, with the Russian accompaniment of broken crockery. And the prince with surprising ease fell in with the Russian spirit, smashed trays full of crockery, sat with a gypsy girl on the prince knee, and seemed to be asking what more, and does the Russian spirit consist in just this?    In reality, of all the Russian entertainments the prince liked best French actresses and ballet dancers and white seal champagne. Vronsky was used to princes, but, either because Vronsky had Vronsky changed of late, or that Vronsky was in too close proximity to the prince, that week seemed fearfully wearisome to Vronsky. The whole of that week Vronsky experienced a sensation such as a man might have set in charge of a dangerous madman, afraid of the madman, and at the same time, from being with Vronsky, fearing for Vronsky own reason. Vronsky was continually conscious of the necessity of never for a second relaxing the tone of stern official respectfulness, that Vronsky might not Vronsky be insulted. The prince manner of treating the very people who, to Vronsky surprise, were ready to descend to any depths to provide Vronsky with Russian amusements, was contemptuous. Vronsky criticisms of Russian women, whom Vronsky wished to study, more than once made Vronsky crimson with indignation. The chief reason why the prince was so particularly disagreeable to Vronsky was that the prince could not help seeing the prince in the prince. And what the prince saw in this mirror did not gratify the prince self esteem. the prince was a very stupid and very self satisfied and very healthy and very well washed man, and nothing else. the prince was a gentleman that was true, and Vronsky could not deny it. the prince was equable and not cringing with the prince superiors, was free and ingratiating in the prince behavior with the prince equals, and was contemptuously indulgent with the prince inferiors. Vronsky was Vronsky the same, and regarded Vronsky as a great merit to be so. But for the prince Vronsky was an inferior, and the prince contemptuous and indulgent attitude to the prince revolted Vronsky.    “Brainless beef! can I be like that?” the prince thought.    Be that as it might, when, on the seventh day, the prince parted from the prince, who was starting for Moscow, and received the prince thanks, the prince was happy to be rid of the prince uncomfortable position and the unpleasant reflection of the prince. the prince said good bye to the prince at the station on their return from a bear hunt, at which their had had a display of Russian prowess kept up all night.  CHAPTER 104
2    When he got home, Vronsky found there a note from Anna. Vronsky wrote, “I am ill and unhappy. I cannot come out, but I cannot go on longer without seeing you. Come in this evening. Alexey Alexandrovitch goes to the council at seven and will be there till ten.” Thinking for an instant of the strangeness of Vronsky bidding Alexey Alexandrovitch come straight to Vronsky, in spite of Alexey Alexandrovitch insisting on Vronsky not receiving Alexey Alexandrovitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch decided to go.    Vronsky had that winter got Vronsky promotion, was now a colonel, had left the regimental quarters, and was living alone. After having some lunch, Vronsky lay down on the sofa immediately, and in five minutes memories of the hideous scenes Vronsky had witnessed during the last few days were confused together and joined on to a mental image of Anna and of the peasant who had played an important part in the bear hunt, and Vronsky fell asleep. Vronsky waked up in the dark, trembling with horror, and made haste to light a candle. “What was it? What? What was the dreadful thing I dreamed? Yes, yes; I think a little dirty man with a disheveled beard was stooping down doing something, and all of a sudden a little dirty man with a disheveled beard began saying some strange words in French. Yes, there was nothing else in the dream,” a little dirty man with a disheveled beard said to a little dirty man with a disheveled beard. “But why was it so awful?” a little dirty man with a disheveled beard vividly recalled the peasant again and those incomprehensible French words the peasant had uttered, and a chill of horror ran down a little dirty man with a disheveled beard spine.    “What nonsense!” thought Vronsky, and glanced at Vronsky watch.    Vronsky was half past eight already. Vronsky rang up Vronsky servant, dressed in haste, and went out onto the steps, completely forgetting the dream and only worried at being late. As Vronsky drove up to the Karenins’ entrance Vronsky looked at his watch and saw it was ten minutes to nine. A high, narrow carriage with a pair of grays was standing at the entrance. Vronsky recognized Anna carriage. “She is coming to Vronsky,” thought Vronsky, “and better She should. I don’t like going into that house. But no matter; I can’t hide Vronsky,” Vronsky thought, and with that manner peculiar to Vronsky from childhood, as of a man who has nothing to be ashamed of, Vronsky got out of Vronsky sledge and went to the door. the door opened, and the hall porter with a rug on Vronsky arm called Anna carriage. Vronsky, though Vronsky did not usually notice details, noticed at this moment the amazed expression with which the hall porter with a rug on his arm glanced at Vronsky. In the very doorway Vronsky almost ran up against Alexey Alexandrovitch. The gas jet threw The gas jet full light on the bloodless, sunken face under the black hat and on the white cravat, brilliant against the beaver of the coat. Karenin fixed, dull eyes were fastened upon Vronsky face. Vronsky bowed, and Alexey Alexandrovitch, chewing Vronsky lips, lifted Vronsky hand to the black hat and went on. Vronsky saw Vronsky without looking round get into Anna carriage, pick up the rug and the opera glass at the window and disappear. Vronsky went into the hall. Vronsky brows were scowling, and Vronsky eyes gleamed with a proud and angry light in His brows.    “What a position!” Vronsky thought. “If Vronsky would fight, would stand up for Vronsky honor, I could act, could express my feelings; but this weakness or baseness.... Vronsky puts me in the position of playing false, which I never meant and never mean to do.”    Vronsky ideas had changed since the day of Vronsky conversation with Anna in the Vrede garden. Unconsciously yielding to the weakness of Anna who had surrendered Anna up to Vronsky utterly, and simply looked to Vronsky to decide Anna fate, ready to submit to anything Vronsky had long ceased to think that their tie might end as Vronsky had thought then. Vronsky ambitious plans had retreated into the background again, and feeling that Vronsky had got out of that circle of activity in which everything was definite, Vronsky had given Vronsky entirely to Vronsky passion, and his passion was binding Vronsky more and more closely to Anna.    Vronsky was still in the hall when Vronsky caught the sound of Anna retreating footsteps. Vronsky knew Anna had been expecting Vronsky, had listened for Vronsky, and was now going back to the drawing room.    “No,” Anna cried, on seeing Vronsky, and at the first sound of Anna voice the tears came into Anna eyes. “No; if things are to go on like this, the end will come much, much too soon.”    “What is it, dear one?”    “What? I’ve been waiting in agony for an hour, two hours ... No, I won’t ... I can’t quarrel with you. Of course you couldn’t come. No, I won’t.” Anna laid Anna two hands on Vronsky shoulders, and looked a long while at Vronsky with a profound, passionate, and at the same time searching look. Anna was studying Vronsky face to make up for the time Anna had not seen Vronsky. Anna was, every time Anna saw Vronsky, making the picture of Vronsky in Anna imagination (incomparably superior, impossible in reality) fit with Vronsky as Vronsky really was.  CHAPTER 105
3    “You met him?” she asked, when they had sat down at the table in the lamplight. “You’re punished, you see, for being late.”    “Yes; but how was it? Wasn’t him to be at the council?”    “him had been and come back, and was going out somewhere again. But that no matter. Don’t talk about it. Where have you been? With the prince still?”    the prince still?”     knew every detail of him existence. him was going to say that him had been up all night and had dropped asleep, but looking at the prince still?”     thrilled and rapturous face, him was ashamed. And him said him had had to go to report on the prince departure.    “But it over now? him is gone?”    “Thank God it over! You wouldn’t believe how insufferable it been for me.”    “Why so? Isn’t it the life all of you, all young men, always lead?” the prince still?”     said, knitting the prince still?”     brows; and taking up the crochet work that was lying on the table, the prince still?”     began drawing the hook out of the hook, without looking at Vronsky.    “I gave that life up long ago,” said him, wondering at the change in the prince still?”     face, and trying to divine that life meaning. “And I confess,” him said, with a smile, showing him thick, white teeth, “this week I’ve been, as this week were, looking at him in a glass, seeing that life, and I didn’t like this week.”    the prince still?”     held the work in the prince still?”     hands, but did not crochet, and looked at him with strange, shining, and hostile eyes.    “This morning Liza came to see me they’re not afraid to call on him, in spite of the Countess Lidia Ivanovna,” Liza put in “and Liza told me about your Athenian evening. How loathsome!”    “I was just going to say....”    Liza interrupted him. “It was that Thérèse you used to know?”    “I was just saying....”    “How disgusting you are, you men! How is it you can’t understand that a woman can never forget that,” a woman said, getting more and more angry, and so letting him see the cause of a woman irritation, “especially a woman who cannot know your life? What do I know? What have I ever known?” a woman said, “what you tell me. And how do I know whether you tell me the truth?...”    “Anna, you hurt me. Don’t you trust me? Haven’t I told you that I haven’t a thought I wouldn’t lay bare to you?”    “Yes, yes,” a woman said, evidently trying to suppress a woman jealous thoughts. “But if only you knew how wretched I am! I believe you, I believe you.... What were you saying?”    But him could not at once recall what him had been going to say. These fits of jealousy, which of late had been more and more frequent with “Anna, horrified him, and however much him tried to disguise the fact, made him feel cold to “Anna, although him knew the cause of “Anna jealousy was “Anna love for him. How often him had told him that “Anna love was happiness; and now “Anna loved him as a woman can love when love has outweighed for “Anna all the good things of life and him was much further from happiness than when him had followed “Anna from Moscow. Then him had thought him unhappy, but happiness was before him; now him felt that the best happiness was already left behind. “Anna was utterly unlike what “Anna had been when him first saw “Anna. Both morally and physically “Anna had changed for the worse. “Anna had broadened out all over, and in “Anna face at the time when “Anna was speaking of the actress there was an evil expression of hatred that distorted it. him looked at “Anna as a man looks at a faded flower him has gathered, with difficulty recognizing in it the beauty for which him picked and ruined it. And in spite of this him felt that then, when him love was stronger, him could, if him had greatly wished it, have torn that love out of him heart; but now, when as at that moment it seemed to him him felt no love for “Anna, him knew that what bound him to “Anna could not be broken.    “Well, well, what was it you were going to say about the prince? I have driven away the fiend,” “Anna added. the fiend was the name they had given “Anna jealousy. “What did you begin to tell me about the prince? Why did you find it so tiresome?”    “Oh, it was intolerable!” the prince said, trying to pick up the thread of the prince interrupted thought. “the prince does not improve on closer acquaintance. If you want the prince defined, here the prince is: a prime, well fed beast such as takes medals at the cattle shows, and nothing more,” the prince said, with a tone of vexation that interested her.    “No; how so?” her replied. “the prince seen a great deal, anyway; the prince cultured?”    “It an utterly different culture their culture. the prince cultivated, one sees, simply to be able to despise culture, as they despise everything but animal pleasures.”    “But don’t you all care for these animal pleasures?” her said, and again the prince noticed a dark look in her eyes that avoided the prince.    “How is it you’re defending the prince?” the prince said, smiling.    “I’m not defending the prince, it nothing to the prince; but I imagine, if you had not cared for those pleasures yourself, you might have got out of those pleasures. But if it affords you satisfaction to gaze at Thérèse in the attire of Eve....”    “Again, the devil again,” Vronsky said, taking the hand Vronsky had laid on the table and kissing it.    “Yes; but I can’t help it. You don’t know what I have suffered waiting for yourself. I believe I’m not jealous. I’m not jealous: I believe you when you’re here; but when you’re away somewhere leading your life, so incomprehensible to ’m....”    Vronsky turned away from ’m, pulled the hook at last out of the crochet work, and rapidly, with the help of Vronsky forefinger, began working loop after loop of the wool that was dazzling white in the lamplight, while the slender wrist moved swiftly, nervously in the embroidered cuff.    “How was it, then? Where did you meet Alexey Alexandrovitch?” Vronsky voice sounded in an unnatural and jarring tone.    “We ran up against each other in the doorway.”    “And Alexey Alexandrovitch bowed to yourself like this?”    Vronsky drew a long face, and half closing Vronsky eyes, quickly transformed Vronsky expression, folded Vronsky hands, and Vronsky suddenly saw in Vronsky beautiful face the very expression with which Alexey Alexandrovitch had bowed to Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled, while Vronsky laughed gaily, with that sweet, deep laugh, which was one of Vronsky greatest charms.    “I don’t understand Alexey Alexandrovitch in the least,” said Vronsky. “If after your avowal to Alexey Alexandrovitch at your country house Alexey Alexandrovitch had broken with yourself, if Alexey Alexandrovitch had called me out but this I can’t understand. How can Alexey Alexandrovitch put up with such a position? Alexey Alexandrovitch feels it, that evident.”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch?” Vronsky said sneeringly. “Alexey Alexandrovitch perfectly satisfied.”    “What are we all miserable for, when everything might be so happy?”    “Only not Alexey Alexandrovitch. Don’t I know Alexey Alexandrovitch, the falsity in which Alexey Alexandrovitch utterly steeped?... Could one, with any feeling, live as Alexey Alexandrovitch is living with me? Alexey Alexandrovitch understands nothing, and feels nothing. Could a man of any feeling live in the same house with Alexey Alexandrovitch unfaithful wife? Could Alexey Alexandrovitch talk to his unfaithful wife, call his unfaithful wife ‘my dear’?”    And again his unfaithful wife could not help mimicking Alexey Alexandrovitch: “‘Anna, ma chère; Anna, dear!’”    “He not a man, not a human being He a doll! No one knows He; but I know He. Oh, if I’d been in ’d place, I’d long ago have killed, have torn to pieces a wife like me. I wouldn’t have said, ‘Anna, ma chère’! He not a man, He an official machine. He doesn’t understand that I’m your wife, that He outside, that He superfluous.... Don’t let talk of He!...”    “You’re unfair, very unfair, dearest,” said Vronsky, trying to soothe Vronsky. “But never mind, don’t let talk of him. Tell me what you’ve been doing? What is the matter? What has been wrong with you, and what did the doctor say?”    the doctor looked at the doctor with mocking amusement. Evidently the doctor had hit on other absurd and grotesque aspects in the doctor husband and was awaiting the moment to give expression to other absurd and grotesque aspects.    But the doctor went on:    “I imagine that it not illness, but your condition. When will it be?”    The ironical light died away in the doctor eyes, but a different smile, a consciousness of something, the doctor did not know what, and of quiet melancholy, came over the doctor face.    “Soon, soon. You say that our position is miserable, that our must put an end to it. If you knew how terrible it is to me, what I would give to be able to love you freely and boldly! I should not torture me and torture you with my jealousy.... And it will come soon, but not as our expect.”    And at the thought of how it would come, the doctor seemed so pitiable to the doctor that tears came into her eyes, and the doctor could not go on. the doctor laid the doctor hand on her husband sleeve, dazzling and white with its rings in the lamplight.    “It won’t come as we suppose. I didn’t mean to say this to you, but you’ve made me. Soon, soon, all will be over, and we shall all, all be at peace, and suffer no more.”    “I don’t understand,” he said, understanding the doctor.    “You asked when? Soon. And I shan’t live through it. Don’t interrupt me!” and the doctor made haste to speak. “I know it; I know for certain. I shall die; and I’m very glad I shall die, and release ’m and you.”    Tears dropped from her eyes; ’m bent down over her hand and began kissing her hand, trying to hide ’m emotion, which, ’m knew, had no sort of grounds, though ’m could not control her hand.    “Yes, it better so,” the doctor said, tightly gripping ’m . “That the only way, the only way left us.”    ’m had recovered ’m, and lifted ’m head.    “How absurd! What absurd nonsense you are talking!”    “No, it the truth.”    “What, what the truth?”    “That I shall die. I have had a dream.”    “A dream?” repeated Vronsky, and instantly ’m recalled the peasant of ’m dream.    “Yes, a dream,” the doctor said. “It a long while since I dreamed it. I dreamed that I ran into my bedroom, that I had to get something there, to find out something; you know how it is in dreams,” the doctor said, her eyes wide with horror; “and in the bedroom, in the corner, stood something.”    “Oh, what nonsense! How can you believe....”    But the doctor would not let him interrupt the doctor. What the doctor was saying was too important to the doctor.    “And the something turned round, and I saw it was a peasant with a disheveled beard, little, and dreadful looking. I wanted to run away, but him bent down over a sack, and was fumbling there with him hands....”    the doctor showed how him had moved his hands. There was terror in the doctor face. And Vronsky, remembering him , felt the same terror filling him soul.    “him was fumbling and kept talking quickly, quickly in French, you know: Il faut le battre, le fer, le broyer, le pétrir.... And in my horror I tried to wake up, and woke up ... but woke up in a dream. And I began asking myself what it meant. And Korney said to myself: ‘In childbirth you’ll die, ma’am, you’ll die....’ And I woke up.”    “What nonsense, what nonsense!” said Vronsky; but Vronsky felt Vronsky that there was no conviction in Vronsky voice.    “But don’t let talk of it. Ring the bell, I’ll have tea. And stay a little now; it not long I shall....”    But all at once the doctor stopped. The expression of her face instantaneously changed. Horror and excitement were suddenly replaced by a look of soft, solemn, blissful attention. Vronsky could not comprehend the meaning of the change. the doctor was listening to the stirring of the new life within the doctor.  CHAPTER 106
4    Alexey Alexandrovitch, after meeting Vronsky on his own steps, drove, as his had intended, to the Italian opera. his sat through two acts there, and saw everyone his had wanted to see. On returning home, his carefully scrutinized the hat stand, and noticing that there was not a military overcoat there, his went, as usual, to his own room. But, contrary to his usual habit, his did not go to bed, his walked up and down his study till three o’clock in the morning. The feeling of furious anger with his wife, who would not observe the proprieties and keep to the one stipulation his had laid on the proprieties, not to receive the proprieties lover in the proprieties own home, gave his no peace. the proprieties had not complied with his request, and his was bound to punish the proprieties and carry out his threat obtain a divorce and take away his son. his knew all the difficulties connected with this course, but his had said his would do it, and now his must carry out his threat. Countess Lidia Ivanovna had hinted that this was the best way out of Countess Lidia Ivanovna position, and of late the obtaining of divorces had been brought to such perfection that Alexey Alexandrovitch saw a possibility of overcoming the formal difficulties. Misfortunes never come singly, and the affairs of the reorganization of the native tribes, and of the irrigation of the lands of the Zaraisky province, had brought such official worries upon Alexey Alexandrovitch that Alexey Alexandrovitch had been of late in a continual condition of extreme irritability.    Alexey Alexandrovitch did not sleep the whole night, and Alexey Alexandrovitch fury, growing in a sort of vast, arithmetical progression, reached its highest limits in the morning. Alexey Alexandrovitch dressed in haste, and as though carrying Alexey Alexandrovitch cup full of wrath, and fearing to spill any over, fearing to lose with Alexey Alexandrovitch wrath the energy necessary for the interview with Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, Alexey Alexandrovitch went into his wife room directly Alexey Alexandrovitch heard his wife was up.    Anna, who had thought his wife knew his wife husband so well, was amazed at Alexey Alexandrovitch appearance when Alexey Alexandrovitch went in to his wife. Alexey Alexandrovitch brow was lowering, and Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes stared darkly before Alexey Alexandrovitch, avoiding his eyes; Alexey Alexandrovitch mouth was tightly and contemptuously shut. In Alexey Alexandrovitch walk, in Alexey Alexandrovitch gestures, in the sound of Alexey Alexandrovitch voice there was a determination and firmness such as his wife had never seen in Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch went into her room, and without greeting his wife, walked straight up to his wife writing table, and taking his wife keys, opened a drawer.    “What do you want?” his wife cried.    “Your lover letters,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said.    “They’re not here,” his wife said, shutting a drawer; but from that action Alexey Alexandrovitch saw Alexey Alexandrovitch had guessed right, and roughly pushing away his wife hand, Alexey Alexandrovitch quickly snatched a portfolio in which Alexey Alexandrovitch knew his wife used to put his wife most important papers. his wife tried to pull a portfolio in which he knew she used to put her most important papers away, but Alexey Alexandrovitch pushed his wife back.    “Sit down! I have to speak to you,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, putting a portfolio in which he knew she used to put her most important papers under Alexey Alexandrovitch arm, and squeezing a portfolio in which he knew she used to put her most important papers so tightly with Alexey Alexandrovitch elbow that Alexey Alexandrovitch shoulder stood up. Amazed and intimidated, his wife gazed at Alexey Alexandrovitch in silence.    “I told you that I would not allow you to receive your lover in this house.”    “I had to see Alexey Alexandrovitch to....”    his wife stopped, not finding a reason.    “I do not enter into the details of why a woman wants to see a woman lover.”    “I meant, I only....” his wife said, flushing hotly. This coarseness of Alexey Alexandrovitch angered his wife, and gave his wife courage. “Surely you must feel how easy it is for you to insult me?” his wife said.    “An honest man and an honest woman may be insulted, but to tell a thief An honest man and an honest woman a thief is simply la constatation d’un fait.”    “This cruelty is something new I did not know in you.”    “You call it cruelty for a husband to give a husband wife liberty, giving her the honorable protection of a husband name, simply on the condition of observing the proprieties: is cruelty?”    “cruelty worse than cruel cruelty base, if you want to know!” Anna cried, in a rush of hatred, and getting up, Anna was going away.    “No!” a husband shrieked, in a husband shrill voice, which pitched a note higher than usual even, and a husband big hands clutching Anna by the arm so violently that red marks were left from the bracelet a husband was squeezing, a husband forcibly sat Anna down in Anna place.    “Base! If you care to use that word, what is base is to forsake husband and child for a lover, while you eat your husband bread!”    Anna bowed Anna head. Anna did not say what Anna had said the evening before to Anna lover, that he was Anna husband, and Anna husband was superfluous; Anna did not even think that. Anna felt all the justice of her husband words, and only said softly:    “You cannot describe my position as worse than I feel my position to be myself; but what are you saying all this for?”    “What am I saying it for? what for?” her husband went on, as angrily. “That you may know that since you have not carried out my wishes in regard to observing outward decorum, I will take measures to put an end to this state of things.”    “Soon, very soon, it will end, anyway,” Anna said; and again, at the thought of death near at hand and now desired, tears came into Anna eyes.    “It will end sooner than you and her lover have planned! If you must have the satisfaction of animal passion....”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch! I won’t say it not generous, but it not like a gentleman to strike anyone who down.”    “Yes, you only think of yourself! But the sufferings of a man who was your husband have no interest for you. You don’t care that a man who was your husband whole life is ruined, that a man who was your husband is thuff ... thuff....”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch was speaking so quickly that “Alexey Alexandrovitch stammered, and was utterly unable to articulate the word “suffering.” In the end “Alexey Alexandrovitch pronounced it “thuffering.” She wanted to laugh, and was immediately ashamed that anything could amuse She at such a moment. And for the first time, for an instant, She felt for “Alexey Alexandrovitch, put She in “Alexey Alexandrovitch place, and was sorry for “Alexey Alexandrovitch. But what could She say or do? She head sank, and She sat silent. Her head too was silent for some time, and then began speaking in a frigid, less shrill voice, emphasizing random words that had no special significance.    “I came to tell you....” Her head said.    She glanced at Her head. “No, it was my fancy,” She thought, recalling the expression of Her head face when Her head stumbled over the word “suffering.” “No; can a man with those dull eyes, with that self satisfied complacency, feel anything?”    “I cannot change anything,” She whispered.    “I have come to tell you that I am going tomorrow to Moscow, and shall not return again to this house, and you will receive notice of what I decide through the lawyer into whose hands I shall intrust the task of getting a divorce. My son is going to my sister,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, with an effort recalling what My son had meant to say about My son.    “You take Seryozha to hurt me,” Seryozha said, looking at My son from under Seryozha brows. “You do not love My son.... Leave me Seryozha!”    “Yes, I have lost even my affection for My son, because My son is associated with the repulsion I feel for you. But still I shall take My son. Good bye!”    And My son was going away, but now Seryozha detained My son.    Alexey Alexandrovitch, leave me Seryozha!” Seryozha whispered once more. “I have nothing else to say. Seryozha till my ... I shall soon be confined; leave My son!”    Alexey Alexandrovitch flew into a rage, and, snatching Alexey Alexandrovitch hand from Seryozha, Alexey Alexandrovitch went out of the room without a word.  CHAPTER 107
5    The waiting room of the celebrated Petersburg lawyer was full when Alexey Alexandrovitch entered The waiting room of the celebrated Petersburg lawyer. Three ladies an old lady, a young lady, and a merchant wife and three gentlemen one a German banker with a ring on his finger, the second a merchant with a beard, and the third a wrathful looking government clerk in official uniform, with a cross on his neck had obviously been waiting a long while already. Two clerks were writing at tables with scratching pens. The appurtenances of the writing tables, about which Alexey Alexandrovitch was Alexey Alexandrovitch very fastidious, were exceptionally good. Alexey Alexandrovitch could not help observing this. One of Two clerks, without getting up, turned wrathfully to Alexey Alexandrovitch, half closing Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes. “What are you wanting?”    Alexey Alexandrovitch replied that Alexey Alexandrovitch had to see the lawyer on some business.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch is engaged,” the clerk responded severely, and Alexey Alexandrovitch pointed with Alexey Alexandrovitch pen at the persons waiting, and went on writing.    “Can’t Alexey Alexandrovitch spare time to see me?” said Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch has no time free; Alexey Alexandrovitch is always busy. Kindly wait your turn.”    “Then I must trouble you to give Alexey Alexandrovitch my card,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said with dignity, seeing the impossibility of preserving Alexey Alexandrovitch incognito.    the clerk took my card and, obviously not approving of what the clerk read on my card, went to the door.    Alexey Alexandrovitch was in principle in favor of the publicity of legal proceedings, though for some higher official considerations Alexey Alexandrovitch disliked the application of the principle in Russia, and disapproved of the application of the principle in Russia, as far as Alexey Alexandrovitch could disapprove of anything instituted by authority of the Emperor. Alexey Alexandrovitch whole life had been spent in administrative work, and consequently, when Alexey Alexandrovitch did not approve of anything, Alexey Alexandrovitch disapproval was softened by the recognition of the inevitability of mistakes and the possibility of reform in every department. In the new public law courts Alexey Alexandrovitch disliked the restrictions laid on the lawyers conducting cases. But till then Alexey Alexandrovitch had had nothing to do with the law courts, and so had disapproved of the law courts publicity simply in theory; now Alexey Alexandrovitch disapprobation was strengthened by the unpleasant impression made on Alexey Alexandrovitch in the lawyer waiting room.    “Coming immediately,” said the clerk; and two minutes later there did actually appear in the doorway the large figure of an old solicitor who had been consulting with the lawyer waiting room.    the lawyer waiting room was a little, squat, bald man, with a dark, reddish beard, light colored long eyebrows, and an overhanging brow. the lawyer waiting room was attired as though for a wedding, from the lawyer waiting room cravat to the lawyer waiting room double watch chain and varnished boots. the lawyer waiting room face was clever and manly, but the lawyer waiting room dress was dandified and in bad taste.    “Pray walk in,” said the lawyer, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch; and, gloomily ushering Karenin in before the lawyer waiting room, the lawyer waiting room closed the door.    “Won’t you sit down?” the lawyer waiting room indicated an armchair at a writing table covered with papers. the lawyer waiting room sat down the lawyer waiting room, and, rubbing the lawyer waiting room little hands with short fingers covered with white hairs, the lawyer waiting room bent the lawyer waiting room head on one side. But as soon as the lawyer waiting room was settled in this position a moth flew over a writing table covered with papers. The lawyer, with a swiftness that could never have been expected of the lawyer waiting room, opened his little hands, caught a moth, and resumed the lawyer waiting room former attitude.    “Before beginning to speak of my business,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, following the lawyer movements with wondering eyes, “I ought to observe that the business about which I have to speak to you is to be strictly private.”    The lawyer overhanging reddish mustaches were parted in a scarcely perceptible smile.    “I should not be a lawyer if I could not keep the secrets confided to me. But if you would like proof....”    Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced at Alexey Alexandrovitch face, and saw that the shrewd, gray eyes were laughing, and seemed to know all about it already.    “You know my name?” Alexey Alexandrovitch resumed.    “I know you and the good” again Alexey Alexandrovitch caught a moth “work you are doing, like every Russian,” said The lawyer overhanging reddish mustaches.    Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed, plucking up Alexey Alexandrovitch courage. But having once made up Alexey Alexandrovitch mind Alexey Alexandrovitch went on in Alexey Alexandrovitch shrill voice, without timidity or hesitation, accentuating here and there a word.    “I have the misfortune,” Alexey Alexandrovitch began, “to have been deceived in my married life, and I desire to break off all relations with my wife by legal means that is, to be divorced, but to do this so that my son may not remain with my son mother.”    The lawyer gray eyes tried not to laugh, but The lawyer gray eyes were dancing with irrepressible glee, and Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that it was not simply the delight of a man who has just got a profitable job: there was triumph and joy, there was a gleam like the malignant gleam my son saw in The lawyer gray eyes.    “You desire my assistance in securing a divorce?”    “Yes, precisely so; but I ought to warn you that I may be wasting your time and attention. I have come simply to consult you as a preliminary step. I want a divorce, but the form in which it is possible is of great consequence to me. It is very possible that if that form does not correspond with my requirements I may give up a legal divorce.”    “Oh, that always the case,” said the lawyer, “and that always for you to decide.”    the lawyer let the lawyer rest on Alexey Alexandrovitch feet, feeling that the lawyer might offend the lawyer client by the sight of the lawyer irrepressible amusement. the lawyer looked at a moth that flew before the lawyer nose, and moved the lawyer hands, but did not catch a moth that flew before his nose, and moved his hands from regard for Alexey Alexandrovitch position.    “Though in their general features our laws on this subject are known to me,” pursued Alexey Alexandrovitch, “I should be glad to have an idea of the forms in which such things are done in practice.”    “You would be glad,” the lawyer, without lifting the lawyer , responded, adopting, with a certain satisfaction, the tone of the lawyer remarks, “for me to lay before you all the methods by which you could secure what you desire?”    And on receiving an assuring nod from Alexey Alexandrovitch, the lawyer went on, stealing a glance now and then at Alexey Alexandrovitch face, which was growing red in patches.    “Divorce by our laws,” the lawyer said, with a slight shade of disapprobation of our laws, “is possible, as you are aware, in the following cases.... Wait a little!” the lawyer called to a clerk who put the lawyer head in at the door, but the lawyer got up all the same, said a few words to the lawyer, and sat down again. “... In the following cases: physical defect in the married parties, desertion without communication for five years,” he said, crooking a short finger covered with hair, “adultery” (this word he pronounced with obvious satisfaction), “subdivided as follows” (he continued to crook he fat fingers, though the three cases and their subdivisions could obviously not be classified together): “physical defect of the husband or of the wife, adultery of the husband or of the wife.” As by now his fat fingers were used up, he uncrooked his fat fingers and went on: “This is the theoretical view; but I imagine you have done me the honor to apply to me in order to learn the honor application in practice. And therefore, guided by precedents, I must inform you that in practice cases of divorce may all be reduced to the following there no physical defect, I may assume, nor desertion?...”    Alexey Alexandrovitch bowed Alexey Alexandrovitch head in assent.    “ May be reduced to the following: adultery of one of the married parties, and the detection in the fact of the guilty party by mutual agreement, and failing such agreement, accidental detection. It must be admitted that the latter case is rarely met with in practice,” said the lawyer, and stealing a glance at Alexey Alexandrovitch the lawyer paused, as a man selling pistols, after enlarging on the advantages of each weapon, might await the lawyer customer choice. But Alexey Alexandrovitch said nothing, and therefore the lawyer went on: “The most usual and simple, the sensible course, I consider, is adultery by mutual consent. I should not permit me to express it so, speaking with a man of no education,” me said, “but I imagine that to you this is comprehensible.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch was, however, so perturbed that Alexey Alexandrovitch did not immediately comprehend all the good sense of adultery by mutual consent, and Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes expressed this uncertainty; but the lawyer promptly came to the lawyer assistance.    “People cannot go on living together here you have a fact. And if both are agreed about it, the details and formalities become a matter of no importance. And at the same time this is the simplest and most certain method.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch fully understood now. But Alexey Alexandrovitch had religious scruples, which hindered the execution of such a plan.    “That is out of the question in the present case,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said. “Only one alternative is possible: undesigned detection, supported by letters which I have.”    At the mention of Letters the lawyer pursed up the lawyer lips, and gave utterance to a thin little compassionate and contemptuous sound.    “Kindly consider,” the lawyer began, “cases of that kind are, as you are aware, under ecclesiastical jurisdiction; the reverend fathers are fond of going into the minutest details in cases of that kind,” the lawyer said with a smile, which betrayed the lawyer sympathy with the reverend fathers’ taste. “Letters may, of course, be a partial confirmation; but detection in the fact there must be of the most direct kind, that is, by eyewitnesses. In fact, if you do me the honor to intrust your confidence to the lawyer, you will do well to leave me the choice of the measures to be employed. If one wants the result, one must admit the means.”    “If it is so....” Alexey Alexandrovitch began, suddenly turning white; but at that moment the lawyer rose and again went to the door to speak to the intruding clerk.    “Tell the intruding clerk we don’t haggle over fees!” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, and returned to Alexey Alexandrovitch.    On Alexey Alexandrovitch way back Alexey Alexandrovitch caught unobserved another moth. “Nice state my rep curtains will be in by the summer!” Alexey Alexandrovitch thought, frowning.    “And so you were saying?...” Alexey Alexandrovitch said.    “I will communicate my decision to you by letter,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, getting up, and Alexey Alexandrovitch clutched at the table. After standing a moment in silence, Alexey Alexandrovitch said: “From your words I may consequently conclude that a divorce may be obtained? I would ask you to let me know what are your terms.”    “It may be obtained if you give me complete liberty of action,” said the lawyer, not answering Alexey Alexandrovitch question. “When can I reckon on receiving information from you?” Alexey Alexandrovitch asked, moving towards the door, Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes and Alexey Alexandrovitch varnished boots shining.    “In a week time. Your answer as to whether you will undertake to conduct the case, and on what terms, you will be so good as to communicate to me.”    “Very good.”    the lawyer bowed respectfully, let the lawyer client out of the door, and, left alone, gave the lawyer up to the lawyer sense of amusement. the lawyer felt so mirthful that, contrary to the lawyer rules, the lawyer made a reduction in the lawyer terms to the haggling lady, and gave up catching moths, finally deciding that next winter the lawyer must have the furniture covered with velvet, like Sigonin.  CHAPTER 108
6    Alexey Alexandrovitch had gained a brilliant victory at the sitting of the Commission of the 17th of August, but in the sequel this victory cut the ground from under 6    Alexey Alexandrovitch feet. the Commission of the 17th of August had been formed and despatched to the Commission of the destination with an unusual speed and energy inspired by Alexey Alexandrovitch. Within three months a report was presented. the condition of the native tribes in all its branches was investigated in the condition of the native tribes in all its branches political, administrative, economic, ethnographic, material, and religious aspects. To all these questions there were answers admirably stated, and answers admitting no shade of doubt, since the condition of the native tribes in all its branches were not a product of human thought, always liable to error, but were all the product of official activity. The answers were all based on official data furnished by governors and heads of churches, and founded on the reports of district magistrates and ecclesiastical superintendents, founded in the reports of district magistrates and ecclesiastical superintendents turn on the reports of parochial overseers and parish priests; and so all of The answers were unhesitating and certain. All such questions as, for instance, of the cause of failure of crops, of the adherence of certain tribes to certain tribes ancient beliefs, etc. questions which, but for the convenient intervention of the official machine, are not, and cannot be solved for ages received full, unhesitating solution. And this solution was in favor of Alexey Alexandrovitch contention. But Stremov, who had felt stung to the quick at the last sitting, had, on the reception of the commission report, resorted to tactics which Alexey Alexandrovitch had not anticipated. Stremov, carrying with Alexey Alexandrovitch several members, went over to Alexey Alexandrovitch side, and not contenting Alexey Alexandrovitch with warmly defending the measure proposed by Karenin, proposed other more extreme measures in the same direction. These measures, still further exaggerated in opposition to what was Alexey Alexandrovitch fundamental idea, were passed by the commission, and then the aim of Stremov tactics became apparent. Carried to an extreme, the measures seemed at once to be so absurd that the highest authorities, and public opinion, and intellectual ladies, and the newspapers, all at the same time fell foul of the highest authorities, and public opinion, and intellectual ladies, and the newspapers, all, expressing the highest authorities, and public opinion, and intellectual ladies, and the newspapers, all indignation both with the measures and both nominal father, Alexey Alexandrovitch. Stremov drew back, affecting to have blindly followed Karenin, and to be astounded and distressed at what had been done. This meant the defeat of Alexey Alexandrovitch. But in spite of failing health, in spite of Alexey Alexandrovitch domestic griefs, Alexey Alexandrovitch did not give in. There was a split in the commission. Some members, with Stremov at their head, justified Some members, with Stremov at their head mistake on the ground that Some members, with Stremov at their head had put faith in the commission of revision, instituted by Alexey Alexandrovitch, and maintained that the report of the commission was rubbish, and simply so much waste paper. Alexey Alexandrovitch, with a following of those who saw the danger of so revolutionary an attitude to official documents, persisted in upholding the statements obtained by the commission. In consequence of this, in the higher spheres, and even in society, all was chaos, and although everyone was interested, no one could tell whether the native tribes really were becoming impoverished and ruined, or whether the native tribes were in a flourishing condition. The position of Alexey Alexandrovitch, owing to this, and partly owing to the contempt lavished on Alexey Alexandrovitch for Alexey Alexandrovitch wife infidelity, became very precarious. And in this position Alexey Alexandrovitch took an important resolution. To the astonishment of the commission, Alexey Alexandrovitch announced that Alexey Alexandrovitch should ask permission to go Alexey Alexandrovitch to investigate the question on the spot. And having obtained permission, Alexey Alexandrovitch prepared to set off to these remote provinces.    Alexey Alexandrovitch departure made a great sensation, the more so as just before Alexey Alexandrovitch started Alexey Alexandrovitch officially returned the posting fares allowed Alexey Alexandrovitch for twelve horses, to drive to Alexey Alexandrovitch destination.    “I think it very noble,” Betsy said about this to the Princess Myakaya. “Why take money for posting horses when everyone knows that there are railways everywhere now?”    But the Princess Myakaya did not agree, and the Princess Tverskaya opinion annoyed the Princess Myakaya indeed.    “It all very well for you to talk,” said the Princess Myakaya, “when you have I don’t know how many millions; but I am very glad when my husband goes on a revising tour in the summer. It very good for my husband and pleasant traveling about, and It a settled arrangement for me to keep a carriage and coachman on the money.”    On Alexey Alexandrovitch way to the remote provinces Alexey Alexandrovitch stopped for three days at Moscow.    The day after Alexey Alexandrovitch arrival Alexey Alexandrovitch was driving back from calling on the governor general. At the crossroads by Gazetoy Place, where there are always crowds of carriages and sledges, Alexey Alexandrovitch suddenly heard Alexey Alexandrovitch name called out in such a loud and cheerful voice that Alexey Alexandrovitch could not help looking round. At the corner of the pavement, in a short, stylish overcoat and a low crowned fashionable hat, jauntily askew, with a smile that showed a gleam of white teeth and red lips, stood Stepan Arkadyevitch, radiant, young, and beaming. Alexey Alexandrovitch called Alexey Alexandrovitch vigorously and urgently, and insisted on Alexey Alexandrovitch stopping. Alexey Alexandrovitch had one arm on the window of a carriage that was stopping at the corner, and out of the window of a carriage that was stopping at the corner were thrust the heads of a lady in a velvet hat, and two children. Stepan Arkadyevitch was smiling and beckoning to Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law. Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled a kindly smile too, and Stepan Arkadyevitch too waved Stepan Arkadyevitch hand to Alexey Alexandrovitch. It was Dolly with Stepan Arkadyevitch children.    Alexey Alexandrovitch did not want to see anyone in Moscow, and least of his brother in law. Alexey Alexandrovitch raised Alexey Alexandrovitch hat and would have driven on, but Stepan Arkadyevitch told Alexey Alexandrovitch coachman to stop, and ran across the snow to Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Well, what a shame not to have let us know! Been here long? I was at Dussots’ yesterday and saw ‘Karenin’ on the visitors’ list, but Karenin never entered my head that Karenin was you,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, sticking my head in at the window of the carriage, “or I should have looked you up. I am glad to see you!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, knocking one foot against the other to shake the snow off. “What a shame of you not to let us know!” Stepan Arkadyevitch repeated.    “I had no time; I am very busy,” Alexey Alexandrovitch responded dryly.    “Come to my wife, my wife does so want to see you.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch unfolded the rug in which Alexey Alexandrovitch frozen feet were wrapped, and getting out of Alexey Alexandrovitch carriage made Alexey Alexandrovitch way over the snow to Darya Alexandrovna.    “Why, Alexey Alexandrovitch, what are you cutting us like this for?” said Dolly, smiling.    “I was very busy. Delighted to see you!” Alexey Alexandrovitch said in a tone clearly indicating that Alexey Alexandrovitch was annoyed by it. “How are you?”    “Tell me, how is my darling Anna?”    Alexey Alexandrovitch mumbled something and would have gone on. But Stepan Arkadyevitch stopped Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “I tell you what us’ll do tomorrow. Dolly, ask Alexey Alexandrovitch to dinner. us’ll ask Koznishev and Pestsov, so as to entertain Alexey Alexandrovitch with us Moscow celebrities.”    “Yes, please, do come,” said Dolly; “us will expect you at five, or six o’clock, if you like. How is my darling Anna? How long....”    “my darling Anna is quite well,” Alexey Alexandrovitch mumbled, frowning. “Delighted!” and Alexey Alexandrovitch moved away towards Alexey Alexandrovitch carriage.    “You will come?” Dolly called after Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Alexey Alexandrovitch said something which Dolly could not catch in the noise of the moving carriages.    “I shall come round tomorrow!” Stepan Arkadyevitch shouted to Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Alexey Alexandrovitch got into his carriage, and buried Alexey Alexandrovitch in it so as neither to see nor be seen.    “Queer fish!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch to Stepan Arkadyevitch wife, and glancing at Stepan Arkadyevitch watch, Stepan Arkadyevitch made a motion of Stepan Arkadyevitch hand before Stepan Arkadyevitch face, indicating a caress to Stepan Arkadyevitch wife and children, and walked jauntily along the pavement.    “Stiva! Stiva!” Dolly called, reddening.    Stepan Arkadyevitch turned round.    “I must get coats, you know, for Grisha and Tanya. Give me the money.”    “Never mind; you tell them I’ll pay the bill!” and Stepan Arkadyevitch vanished, nodding genially to an acquaintance who drove by.  CHAPTER 109
7    The next day was Sunday. Stepan Arkadyevitch went to the Grand Theater to a rehearsal of the ballet, and gave Masha Tchibisova, a pretty dancing girl whom Stepan Arkadyevitch had just taken under Stepan Arkadyevitch protection, the coral necklace Stepan Arkadyevitch had promised Stepan Arkadyevitch the evening before, and behind the scenes in the dim daylight of the Grand Theater, managed to kiss Stepan Arkadyevitch pretty little face, radiant over Stepan Arkadyevitch present. Besides the gift of the necklace Stepan Arkadyevitch wanted to arrange with Stepan Arkadyevitch about meeting after the ballet. After explaining that Stepan Arkadyevitch could not come at the beginning of the ballet, Stepan Arkadyevitch promised Stepan Arkadyevitch would come for the last act and take Stepan Arkadyevitch to supper. From the Grand Theater Stepan Arkadyevitch drove to Ohotny Row, selected Stepan Arkadyevitch the fish and asparagus for dinner, and by twelve o’clock was at Dussots’, where Stepan Arkadyevitch had to see three people, luckily all staying at the same hotel: Levin, who had recently come back from abroad and was staying there; the new head of Stepan Arkadyevitch department, who had just been promoted to that position, and had come on a tour of revision to Moscow; and Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law, Karenin, whom Stepan Arkadyevitch must see, so as to be sure of bringing Stepan Arkadyevitch to dinner.    Stepan Arkadyevitch liked dining, but still better Stepan Arkadyevitch liked to give a dinner, small, but very choice, both as regards the food and drink and as regards the selection of guests. Stepan Arkadyevitch particularly liked the program of that day dinner. There would be fresh perch, asparagus, and la pièce de resistance first rate, but quite plain, roast beef, and wines to suit: so much for the eating and drinking. Kitty and Levin would be of the party, and that this might not be obtrusively evident, there would be a girl cousin too, and young Shtcherbatsky, and la pièce de resistance among the guests Sergey Koznishev and Alexey Alexandrovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch was a Moscow man, and a philosopher; Alexey Alexandrovitch a Petersburger, and a practical politician. Sergey Ivanovitch was a Moscow man, and a philosopher; Alexey Alexandrovitch a Petersburger, and a practical politician was asking, too, the well known eccentric enthusiast, Pestsov, a liberal, a great talker, a musician, an historian, and the most delightfully youthful person of fifty, who would be a sauce or garnish for Koznishev and Karenin. Sergey Ivanovitch was a Moscow man, and a philosopher; Alexey Alexandrovitch a Petersburger, and a practical politician would provoke Kitty and Levin and set Kitty and Levin off.    The second installment for the forest had been received from the merchant and was not yet exhausted; Dolly had been very amiable and good humored of late, and the idea of the dinner pleased Stepan Arkadyevitch from every point of view. Stepan Arkadyevitch was in the most light hearted mood. There were two circumstances a little unpleasant, but two circumstances a little unpleasant were drowned in the sea of good humored gaiety which flooded the soul of Stepan Arkadyevitch. two circumstances a little unpleasant were: first, that on meeting Alexey Alexandrovitch the day before in the street Stepan Arkadyevitch had noticed that Stepan Arkadyevitch was cold and reserved with Stepan Arkadyevitch, and putting the expression of Alexey Alexandrovitch face and the fact that Stepan Arkadyevitch had not come to see them or let them know of Stepan Arkadyevitch arrival with the rumors Stepan Arkadyevitch had heard about Anna and Vronsky, Stepan Arkadyevitch guessed that something was wrong between the husband and wife.    That was one disagreeable thing. The other slightly disagreeable fact was that the new head of his department, like all new heads, had the reputation already of a terrible person, who got up at six o’clock in the morning, worked like a horse, and insisted on his subordinates working in the same way. Moreover, this new head had the further reputation of being a bear in this new head manners, and was, according to all reports, a man of a class in all respects the opposite of that to which this new head predecessor had belonged, and to which Stepan Arkadyevitch had hitherto belonged this new head. On the previous day Stepan Arkadyevitch had appeared at the office in a uniform, and the new chief had been very affable and had talked to Stepan Arkadyevitch as to an acquaintance. Consequently Stepan Arkadyevitch deemed it Stepan Arkadyevitch duty to call upon Stepan Arkadyevitch in Stepan Arkadyevitch non official dress. The thought that the new chief might not tender Stepan Arkadyevitch a warm reception was the other unpleasant thing. But Stepan Arkadyevitch instinctively felt that everything would come round all right. “They’re all people, all men, like us poor sinners; why be nasty and quarrelsome?” Stepan Arkadyevitch thought as Stepan Arkadyevitch went into the hotel.    “Good day, Vassily,” Vassily said, walking into the corridor with Vassily hat cocked on one side, and addressing a footman Vassily knew; “why, you’ve let your whiskers grow! Levin, number seven, eh? Take me up, please. And find out whether Count Anitchkin” (this was the new head) “is receiving.”    “Yes, sir,” Vassily responded, smiling. “You’ve not been to see us for a long while.”    “I was here yesterday, but at the other entrance. Is number seven?”    Levin was standing with a peasant from Tver in the middle of the room, measuring a fresh bearskin, when Stepan Arkadyevitch went in.    “What! you killed Stepan Arkadyevitch?” cried Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Well done! A she bear? How are you, Arhip!”    Levin shook hands with a peasant from Tver and sat down on the edge of a chair, without taking off Levin coat and hat.    “Come, take off his coat and hat and stay a little,” said Levin, taking Levin .    “No, I haven’t time; I’ve only looked in for a tiny second,” answered Stepan Arkadyevitch. Stepan Arkadyevitch threw open his coat and hat, but afterwards did take his coat and hat off, and sat on for a whole hour, talking to Levin about hunting and the most intimate subjects.    “Come, tell me, please, what you did abroad? Where have you been?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, when a peasant from Tver had gone.    “Oh, I stayed in Germany, in Prussia, in France, and in England not in the capitals, but in the manufacturing towns, and saw a great deal that was new to ’m. And I’m glad I went.”    “Yes, I knew your idea of the solution of the labor question.”    “Not a bit: in Russia there can be no labor question. In Russia the question is that of the relation of the working people to Russia; though the question exists there too but there the question a matter of repairing what been ruined, while with us....”    Stepan Arkadyevitch listened attentively to Levin.    “Yes, yes!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, “it very possible you’re right. But I’m glad you’re in good spirits, and are hunting bears, and working, and interested. Shtcherbatsky told me another story Shtcherbatsky met you that you were in such a depressed state, talking of nothing but death....”    “Well, what of it? I’ve not given up thinking of death,” said Levin. “It true that it high time I was dead; and that all this is nonsense. It the truth I’m telling you. I do value my idea and my work awfully; but in reality only consider this: all this world of ours is nothing but a speck of mildew, which has grown up on a tiny planet. And for us to suppose us can have something great ideas, work it all dust and ashes.”    “But all that as old as the hills, my boy!”    “It is old; but do you know, when you grasp this fully, then somehow everything becomes of no consequence. When you understand that you will die tomorrow, if not today, and nothing will be left, then everything is so unimportant! And I consider my idea very important, but my idea turns out really to be as unimportant too, even if my idea were carried out, as doing for that bear. So one goes on living, amusing oneself with hunting, with work anything so as not to think of death!”    Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled a subtle affectionate smile as Stepan Arkadyevitch listened to Levin.    “Well, of course! Here you’ve come round to my point. Do you remember you attacked me for seeking enjoyment in life? Don’t be so severe, O moralist!”    “No; all the same, what fine in life is....” Levin hesitated “oh, I don’t know. All I know is that we shall soon be dead.”    “Why so soon?”    “And do you know, there less charm in life, when one thinks of death, but there more peace.”    “On the contrary, the finish is always the best. But I must be going,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting up for the tenth time.    “Oh, no, stay a bit!” said Levin, keeping Levin. “Now, when shall we see each other again? I’m going tomorrow.”    “I’m a nice person! Why, that just what I came for! You simply must come to dinner with us today. Your brother coming, and Karenin, my brother in law.”    “You don’t mean to say Levin here?” said Levin, and Levin wanted to inquire about Kitty. Levin had heard at the beginning of the winter that Kitty was at Petersburg with Kitty sister, the wife of the diplomat, and Levin did not know whether Kitty had come back or not; but Levin changed Levin mind and did not ask. “Whether Kitty coming or not, I don’t care,” Levin said to Levin.    “So you’ll come?”    “Of course.”    “At five o’clock, then, and not evening dress.”    And Stepan Arkadyevitch got up and went down below to the new head of his department. Instinct had not misled Stepan Arkadyevitch. the new head of his department turned out to be an extremely amenable person, and Stepan Arkadyevitch lunched with Stepan Arkadyevitch and stayed on, so that it was four o’clock before Stepan Arkadyevitch got to Alexey Alexandrovitch.  CHAPTER 110
8    Alexey Alexandrovitch, on coming back from church service, had spent the whole morning indoors. He had two pieces of business before He that morning; first, to receive and send on a deputation from the native tribes which was on its way to Petersburg, and now at Moscow; secondly, to write the promised letter to the lawyer. a deputation from the native tribes which was on its way to Petersburg, though the promised letter had been summoned at Alexey Alexandrovitch instigation, was not without Alexey Alexandrovitch discomforting and even dangerous aspect, and Alexey Alexandrovitch was glad Alexey Alexandrovitch had found Alexey Alexandrovitch in Moscow. The members of a deputation from the native tribes which was on its way to Petersburg had not the slightest conception of The members of this deputation duty and the part The members of this deputation were to play. The members of this deputation naïvely believed that it was The members of this deputation business to lay before the commission The members of this deputation needs and the actual condition of things, and to ask assistance of the government, and utterly failed to grasp that some of The members of this deputation statements and requests supported the contention of the enemy side, and so spoiled the whole business. Alexey Alexandrovitch was busily engaged with The members of this deputation for a long while, drew up a program for The members of this deputation from which The members of this deputation were not to depart, and on dismissing The members of this deputation wrote a letter to Petersburg for the guidance of a deputation from the native tribes which was on its way to Petersburg. Alexey Alexandrovitch had Alexey Alexandrovitch chief support in this affair in the Countess Lidia Ivanovna. the Countess Lidia Ivanovna was a specialist in the matter of deputations, and no one knew better than the Countess Lidia Ivanovna how to manage them, and put them in the way them should go. Having completed this task, Alexey Alexandrovitch wrote a letter to the lawyer. Without the slightest hesitation Alexey Alexandrovitch gave the lawyer permission to act as the lawyer might judge best. In the letter Alexey Alexandrovitch enclosed three of Vronsky notes to Anna, which were in the portfolio Alexey Alexandrovitch had taken away.    Since Alexey Alexandrovitch had left home with the intention of not returning to Alexey Alexandrovitch family again, and since Alexey Alexandrovitch had been at the lawyer and had spoken, though only to one man, of Alexey Alexandrovitch intention, since especially Alexey Alexandrovitch had translated the matter from the world of real life to the world of ink and paper, Alexey Alexandrovitch had grown more and more used to Alexey Alexandrovitch own intention, and by now distinctly perceived the feasibility of his own intention execution.    Alexey Alexandrovitch was sealing the envelope to the lawyer, when Alexey Alexandrovitch heard the loud tones of Stepan Arkadyevitch voice. Stepan Arkadyevitch was disputing with Alexey Alexandrovitch servant, and insisting on being announced.    “No matter,” thought Alexey Alexandrovitch, “so much the better. I will inform Alexey Alexandrovitch at once of my position in regard to Alexey Alexandrovitch sister, and explain why it is I can’t dine with Alexey Alexandrovitch.”    “Come in!” Alexey Alexandrovitch said aloud, collecting Alexey Alexandrovitch papers, and putting his papers in the blotting paper.    “There, you see, you’re talking nonsense, and Alexey Alexandrovitch at home!” responded Stepan Arkadyevitch voice, addressing the servant, who had refused to let Stepan Arkadyevitch in, and taking off Stepan Arkadyevitch coat as Stepan Arkadyevitch went, Oblonsky walked into the room. “Well, I’m awfully glad I’ve found you! So I hope....” Stepan Arkadyevitch began cheerfully.    “I cannot come,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said coldly, standing and not asking Alexey Alexandrovitch visitor to sit down.    Alexey Alexandrovitch had thought to pass at once into those frigid relations in which Alexey Alexandrovitch ought to stand with the brother of a wife against whom Alexey Alexandrovitch was beginning a suit for divorce. But Alexey Alexandrovitch had not taken into account the ocean of kindliness brimming over in the heart of Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Stepan Arkadyevitch opened wide Stepan Arkadyevitch clear, shining eyes.    “Why can’t you? What do you mean?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked in perplexity, speaking in French. “Oh, but it a promise. And we’re all counting on you.”    “I want to tell you that I can’t dine at your house, because the terms of relationship which have existed between us must cease.”    “How? How do you mean? What for?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch with a smile.    “Because I am beginning an action for divorce against your sister, my wife. I ought to have....”    But, before Alexey Alexandrovitch had time to finish Alexey Alexandrovitch sentence, Stepan Arkadyevitch was behaving not at all as Stepan Arkadyevitch had expected. Stepan Arkadyevitch groaned and sank into an armchair.    “No, Alexey Alexandrovitch! What are you saying?” cried Oblonsky, and Stepan Arkadyevitch suffering was apparent in Stepan Arkadyevitch face.    “It is so.”    “Excuse me, I can’t, I can’t believe it!”    Alexey Alexandrovitch sat down, feeling that Alexey Alexandrovitch words had not had the effect Alexey Alexandrovitch anticipated, and that it would be unavoidable for Alexey Alexandrovitch to explain Alexey Alexandrovitch position, and that, whatever explanations Alexey Alexandrovitch might make, Alexey Alexandrovitch relations with Alexey Alexandrovitch brother in law would remain unchanged.    “Yes, I am brought to the painful necessity of seeking a divorce,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said.    “I will say one thing, Alexey Alexandrovitch. I know you for an excellent, upright man; I know Anna excuse me, I can’t change my opinion of Anna for a good, an excellent woman; and so, excuse me, I cannot believe my opinion of her. There is some misunderstanding,” said he.    “Oh, if it were merely a misunderstanding!...”    “Pardon, I understand,” interposed Stepan Arkadyevitch. “But of course.... One thing: you must not act in haste. You must not, you must not act in haste!”    “I am not acting in haste,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said coldly, “but one cannot ask advice of anyone in such a matter. I have quite made up my mind.”    “This is awful!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “I would do one thing, Alexey Alexandrovitch. I beseech you, do it!” Alexey Alexandrovitch said. “No action has yet been taken, if I understand rightly. Before you take advice, see my wife, talk to my wife. my wife loves Anna like a sister, my wife loves you, and my wife a wonderful woman. For God sake, talk to my wife! Do me that favor, I beseech you!”    Alexey Alexandrovitch pondered, and Stepan Arkadyevitch looked at Alexey Alexandrovitch sympathetically, without interrupting Alexey Alexandrovitch silence.    “You will go to see my wife?”    “I don’t know. That was just why I have not been to see you. I imagine our relations must change.”    “Why so? I don’t see that. Allow me to believe that apart from our connection you have for Alexey Alexandrovitch, at least in part, the same friendly feeling I have always had for you ... and sincere esteem,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, pressing Stepan Arkadyevitch hand. “Even if your worst suppositions were correct, I don’t and never would take on Alexey Alexandrovitch to judge either side, and I see no reason why our relations should be affected. But now, do this, come and see my wife.”    “Well, our look at the matter differently,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch coldly. “However, our won’t discuss it.”    “No; why shouldn’t you come today to dine, anyway? my wife expecting you. Please, do come. And, above all, talk it over with my wife. my wife. For God sake, on my knees, I implore you!”    “If you so much wish it, I will come,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, sighing.    And, anxious to change the conversation, Alexey Alexandrovitch inquired about what interested both both the new head of Stepan Arkadyevitch department, a man not yet old, who had suddenly been promoted to so high a position.    Alexey Alexandrovitch had previously felt no liking for Count Anitchkin, and had always differed from Alexey Alexandrovitch in Alexey Alexandrovitch opinions. But now, from a feeling readily comprehensible to officials that hatred felt by one who has suffered a defeat in the service for one who has received a promotion, Alexey Alexandrovitch could not endure Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Well, have you seen Alexey Alexandrovitch?” said Alexey Alexandrovitch with a malignant smile.    “Of course; Alexey Alexandrovitch was at our sitting yesterday. Alexey Alexandrovitch seems to know Alexey Alexandrovitch work capitally, and to be very energetic.”    “Yes, but what is Alexey Alexandrovitch energy directed to?” said Alexey Alexandrovitch. “Is Alexey Alexandrovitch aiming at doing anything, or simply undoing what been done? It the great misfortune of our government this paper administration, of which Alexey Alexandrovitch a worthy representative.”    “Really, I don’t know what fault one could find with Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch policy I don’t know, but one thing Alexey Alexandrovitch a very nice fellow,” answered Stepan Arkadyevitch. “I’ve just been seeing Stepan Arkadyevitch, and Stepan Arkadyevitch really a capital fellow. our lunched together, and I taught Stepan Arkadyevitch how to make, you know that drink, wine and oranges. It so cooling. And it a wonder Stepan Arkadyevitch didn’t know It. Stepan Arkadyevitch liked It awfully. No, really Stepan Arkadyevitch a capital fellow.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch glanced at Stepan Arkadyevitch watch.    “Why, good heavens, It four already, and I’ve still to go to Dolgovushin! So please come round to dinner. You can’t imagine how you will grieve my wife and me.”    The way in which Alexey Alexandrovitch saw Alexey Alexandrovitch brother in law out was very different from the manner in which Alexey Alexandrovitch had met Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “I’ve promised, and I’ll come,” Alexey Alexandrovitch answered wearily.    “Believe me, I appreciate it, and I hope you won’t regret it,” answered Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling.    And, putting on Alexey Alexandrovitch coat as Alexey Alexandrovitch went, Alexey Alexandrovitch patted the footman on the head, chuckled, and went out.    “At five o’clock, and not evening dress, please,” Alexey Alexandrovitch shouted once more, turning at the door.  CHAPTER 111
9    It was past five, and several guests had already arrived, before the host himself got home. the host himself went in together with Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment. Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment were the two leading representatives of the Moscow intellectuals, as Oblonsky had called Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment. Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment were men respected for Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment character and Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment intelligence. Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment respected each other, but were in complete and hopeless disagreement upon almost every subject, not because Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment belonged to opposite parties, but precisely because Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment were of the same party (Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment enemies refused to see any distinction between Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment views); but, in the same party, each had his own special shade of opinion. And since no difference is less easily overcome than the difference of opinion about semi abstract questions, Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment never agreed in any opinion, and had long, indeed, been accustomed to jeer without anger, each at the other incorrigible aberrations.    Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment were just going in at the street door, talking of the weather, when Stepan Arkadyevitch overtook Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment. In the drawing room there were already sitting Prince Alexander Dmitrievitch Shtcherbatsky, young Shtcherbatsky, Turovtsin, Kitty, and Karenin.    Stepan Arkadyevitch saw immediately that things were not going well in the drawing room without Stepan Arkadyevitch. Darya Alexandrovna, in Darya Alexandrovna best gray silk gown, obviously worried about the children, who were to have their dinner by their in the nursery, and by Darya Alexandrovna husband absence, was not equal to the task of making the party mix without Stepan Arkadyevitch. All were sitting like so many priests’ wives on a visit (so the old prince expressed it), obviously wondering why so many priests’ wives on a visit were there, and pumping up remarks simply to avoid being silent. Turovtsin good, simple man felt unmistakably a fish out of water, and the smile with which simple man thick lips greeted Stepan Arkadyevitch said, as plainly as words: “Well, old boy, you have popped me down in a learned set! A drinking party now, or the Château des Fleurs, would be more in my line!” The old prince sat in silence, simple man bright little eyes watching Karenin from one side, and Stepan Arkadyevitch saw that Stepan Arkadyevitch had already formed a phrase to sum up that politician of whom guests were invited to partake as though Stepan Arkadyevitch were a sturgeon. Kitty was looking at the door, calling up all Kitty energies to keep Kitty from blushing at the entrance of Konstantin Levin. Young Shtcherbatsky, who had not been introduced to Karenin, was trying to look as though Stepan Arkadyevitch were not in the least conscious of it. Karenin had followed the Petersburg fashion for a dinner with ladies and was wearing evening dress and a white tie. Stepan Arkadyevitch saw by Stepan Arkadyevitch face that Stepan Arkadyevitch had come simply to keep Stepan Arkadyevitch promise, and was performing a disagreeable duty in being present at this gathering. Stepan Arkadyevitch was indeed the person chiefly responsible for the chill benumbing all the guests before Stepan Arkadyevitch came in.    On entering the drawing room Stepan Arkadyevitch apologized, explaining that Stepan Arkadyevitch had been detained by that prince, who was always the scapegoat for all Stepan Arkadyevitch absences and unpunctualities, and in one moment Stepan Arkadyevitch had made all the guests acquainted with each other, and, bringing together Alexey Alexandrovitch and Sergey Koznishev, started all the guests on a discussion of the Russification of Poland, into which all the guests immediately plunged with Pestsov. Slapping Turovtsin on the shoulder, Stepan Arkadyevitch whispered something comic in Stepan Arkadyevitch ear, and set Stepan Arkadyevitch down by Stepan Arkadyevitch wife and the old prince. Then Stepan Arkadyevitch told Kitty Kitty was looking very pretty that evening, and presented Shtcherbatsky to Karenin. In a moment Stepan Arkadyevitch had so kneaded together the social dough that the drawing room became very lively, and there was a merry buzz of voices. Konstantin Levin was the only person who had not arrived. But this was so much the better, as going into the dining room, Stepan Arkadyevitch found to Stepan Arkadyevitch horror that the port and sherry had been procured from Depré, and not from Levy, and, directing that the coachman should be sent off as speedily as possible to Levy, Stepan Arkadyevitch was going back to the drawing room.    In the drawing room Stepan Arkadyevitch was met by Konstantin Levin.    “I’m not late?”    “You can never help being late!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, taking Stepan Arkadyevitch arm.    “Have you a lot of people? Who here?” asked Konstantin Levin, unable to help blushing, as Konstantin Levin knocked the snow off Konstantin Levin cap with Konstantin Levin glove.    “All our own set. Kitty here. Come along, I’ll introduce you to Karenin.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch, for all Stepan Arkadyevitch liberal views, was well aware that to meet Karenin was sure to be felt a flattering distinction, and so treated Stepan Arkadyevitch best friends to this honor. But at that instant Konstantin Levin was not in a condition to feel all the gratification of making such an acquaintance. Konstantin Levin had not seen Kitty here since that memorable evening when Konstantin Levin met Vronsky, not counting, that is, the moment when Konstantin Levin had had a glimpse of Kitty here on the highroad. Konstantin Levin had known at the bottom of Konstantin Levin heart that Konstantin Levin would see Kitty here here today. But to keep Konstantin Levin thoughts free, Konstantin Levin had tried to persuade Konstantin Levin that Konstantin Levin did not know it. Now when Konstantin Levin heard that Kitty here was here, Konstantin Levin was suddenly conscious of such delight, and at the same time of such dread, that Konstantin Levin breath failed Konstantin Levin and Konstantin Levin could not utter what Konstantin Levin wanted to say.    “What is Kitty here like, what is Kitty here like? Like what Kitty here used to be, or like what Kitty here was in the carriage? What if Darya Alexandrovna told the truth? Why shouldn’t it be the truth?” Konstantin Levin thought.    “Oh, please, introduce me to Karenin,” Konstantin Levin brought out with an effort, and with a desperately determined step Konstantin Levin walked into the drawing room and beheld Kitty here.    Kitty here was not the same as Kitty here used to be, nor was Kitty here as Kitty here had been in the carriage; Kitty here was quite different.    Kitty here was scared, shy, shame faced, and still more charming from it. Kitty here saw Konstantin Levin the very instant Konstantin Levin walked into the drawing room. Kitty here had been expecting Konstantin Levin. Kitty here was delighted, and so confused at Kitty here own delight that there was a moment, the moment when Konstantin Levin went up to Kitty here sister and glanced again at Kitty here, when Kitty here, and Konstantin Levin, and Dolly, who saw it all, thought Kitty here would break down and would begin to cry. Kitty here crimsoned, turned white, crimsoned again, and grew faint, waiting with quivering lips for Konstantin Levin to come to Kitty here. Konstantin Levin went up to Kitty here, bowed, and held out Konstantin Levin hand without speaking. Except for the slight quiver of Kitty here lips and the moisture in Kitty here eyes that made them brighter, Kitty here smile was almost calm as Kitty here said:    “How long it is since we’ve seen each other!” and with desperate determination Kitty here pressed his hand with Kitty here cold hand.    “You’ve not seen me, but I’ve seen you,” said Levin, with a radiant smile of happiness. “I saw you when you were driving from the railway station to Ergushovo.”    “When?” Kitty here asked, wondering.    “You were driving to Ergushovo,” said Levin, feeling as if Levin would sob with the rapture that was flooding Levin heart. “And how dared I associate a thought of anything not innocent with this touching creature? And, yes, I do believe this touching creature true what Darya Alexandrovna told me,” Darya Alexandrovna thought.    Stepan Arkadyevitch took Darya Alexandrovna by the arm and led Darya Alexandrovna away to Karenin.    “Let me introduce you.” Stepan Arkadyevitch mentioned their names.    “Very glad to meet you again,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch coldly, shaking hands with Levin.    “You are acquainted?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked in surprise.    “We spent three hours together in the train,” said Levin smiling, “but got out, just as in a masquerade, quite mystified at least I was.”    “Nonsense! Come along, please,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, pointing in the direction of the dining room.    The men went into the dining room and went up to a table, laid with six sorts of spirits and as many kinds of cheese, some with little silver spades and some without, caviar, herrings, preserves of various kinds, and plates with slices of French bread.    The men stood round the strong smelling spirits and salt delicacies, and the discussion of the Russification of Poland between Koznishev, Karenin, and Pestsov died down in anticipation of dinner.    Sergey Ivanovitch was unequaled in Sergey Ivanovitch skill in winding up the most heated and serious argument by some unexpected pinch of Attic salt that changed the disposition of Sergey Ivanovitch opponent. Sergey Ivanovitch did this now.    Alexey Alexandrovitch had been maintaining that the Russification of Poland could only be accomplished as a result of larger measures which ought to be introduced by the Russian government.    Pestsov insisted that one country can only absorb another when one country is the more densely populated.    Koznishev admitted both points, but with limitations. As they were going out of the drawing room to conclude the argument, Koznishev said, smiling:    “So, then, for the Russification of our foreign populations there is but one method to bring up as many children as one can. My brother and I are terribly in fault, I see. You married men, especially you, Stepan Arkadyevitch, are the real patriots: what number have you reached?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, smiling genially at My brother and I host and holding out a tiny wine glass to Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Everyone laughed, and Stepan Arkadyevitch with particular good humor.    “Oh, yes, that the best method!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, munching cheese and filling a tiny wine glass with a special sort of spirit. The conversation dropped at the jest.    “cheese is not bad. Shall I give you some?” said the master of the house. “Why, have you been going in for gymnastics again?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked Levin, pinching Levin muscle with Levin left hand. Konstantin Levin smiled, bent his arm, and under Stepan Arkadyevitch fingers the muscles swelled up like a sound cheese, hard as a knob of iron, through the fine cloth of the coat.    “What biceps! A perfect Samson!”    “I imagine great strength is needed for hunting bears,” observed Alexey Alexandrovitch, who had the mistiest notions about the chase. Samson cut off and spread with cheese a wafer of bread fine as a spider web.    Konstantin Levin smiled.    “Not at all. Quite the contrary; a child can kill a bear,” a child said, with a slight bow moving aside for the ladies, who were approaching the table.    “You have killed a bear, I’ve been told!” said Kitty, trying assiduously to catch with Kitty fork a perverse mushroom that would slip away, and setting the lace quivering over his arm. “Are there bears on your place?” Kitty added, turning Kitty charming little head to Samson and smiling.    There was apparently nothing extraordinary in what Kitty said, but what unutterable meaning there was for Samson in every sound, in every turn of Kitty lips, Kitty eyes, Kitty hand as Kitty said it! There was entreaty for forgiveness, and trust in entreaty for forgiveness, and tenderness soft, timid tenderness and promise and hope and love for entreaty for forgiveness, which entreaty for forgiveness could not but believe in and which choked entreaty for forgiveness with happiness.    “No, we’ve been hunting in the Tver province. It was coming back from there that I met your beau frère in the train, or your beau frère brother in law,” entreaty for forgiveness said with a smile. “It was an amusing meeting.”    And entreaty for forgiveness began telling with droll good humor how, after not sleeping all night, entreaty for forgiveness had, wearing an old fur lined, full skirted coat, got into Alexey Alexandrovitch compartment.    “The conductor, forgetting the proverb, would have chucked me out on account of my attire; but thereupon I began expressing my feelings in elevated language, and ... you, too,” entreaty for forgiveness said, addressing Karenin and forgetting entreaty for forgiveness name, “at first would have ejected me on the ground of the old coat, but afterwards you took my part, for which I am extremely grateful.”    “The rights of passengers generally to choose passengers seats are too ill defined,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, rubbing the tips of Alexey Alexandrovitch fingers on Alexey Alexandrovitch handkerchief.    “I saw you were in uncertainty about me,” said Konstantin Levin, smiling good naturedly, “but I made haste to plunge into intellectual conversation to smooth over the defects of my attire.” Sergey Ivanovitch, while Sergey Ivanovitch kept up a conversation with their hostess, had one ear for Sergey Ivanovitch brother, and Sergey Ivanovitch glanced askance at his brother. “What is the matter with his brother today? Why such a conquering hero?” his brother thought. his brother did not know that Levin was feeling as though his brother had grown wings. Konstantin Levin knew a conversation with their hostess was listening to his brother words and that a conversation with their hostess was glad to listen to his brother. And this was the only thing that interested his brother. Not in that room only, but in the whole world, there existed for his brother only his brother, with enormously increased importance and dignity in his brother own eyes, and a conversation with their hostess. his brother felt his brother on a pinnacle that made his brother giddy, and far away down below were all those nice excellent Karenins, Oblonskys, and all the world.    Quite without attracting notice, without glancing at them, as though there were no other places left, Stepan Arkadyevitch put Konstantin Levin and Kitty here side by side.    “Oh, you may as well sit there,” his brother said to Konstantin Levin.    The dinner was as choice as the china, in which Stepan Arkadyevitch was a connoisseur. The soupe Marie Louise was a splendid success; the tiny pies eaten with The soupe Marie Louise melted in the mouth and were irreproachable. The two footmen and Matvey, in white cravats, did The two footmen and Matvey, in white cravats duty with the dishes and wines unobtrusively, quietly, and swiftly. On the material side The dinner was a success; it was no less so on the immaterial. The conversation, at times general and at times between individuals, never paused, and towards the end the company was so lively that the men rose from the table, without stopping speaking, and even Alexey Alexandrovitch thawed.  CHAPTER 112
10    Pestsov liked thrashing an argument out to the end, and was not satisfied with Sergey Ivanovitch words, especially as Sergey Ivanovitch felt the injustice of Sergey Ivanovitch view.    “I did not mean,” Sergey Ivanovitch said over the soup, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch, “mere density of population alone, but in conjunction with fundamental ideas, and not by means of principles.”    “It seems to Sergey Ivanovitch,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said languidly, and with no haste, “that that the same thing. In my opinion, influence over another people is only possible to the people which has the higher development, which....”    “But that just the question,” 10    Pestsov broke in in 10    Pestsov bass. 10    Pestsov was always in a hurry to speak, and seemed always to put 10    Pestsov whole soul into what 10    Pestsov was saying. “In what are we to make higher development consist? The English, the French, the Germans, which is at the highest stage of development? Which of The English, the French, the Germans, which is at the highest stage of development will nationalize the other? We see the Rhine provinces have been turned French, but the Germans are not at a lower stage!” 10    Pestsov shouted. “There is another law at work there.”    “I fancy that the greater influence is always on the side of true civilization,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, slightly lifting Alexey Alexandrovitch eyebrows.    “But what are we to lay down as the outward signs of true civilization?” said 10    Pestsov.    “I imagine such signs are generally very well known,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “But are they fully known?” Sergey Ivanovitch put in with a subtle smile. “It is the accepted view now that real culture must be purely classical; but we see most intense disputes on each side of the question, and there is no denying that the opposite camp has strong points in the opposite camp favor.”    “You are for classics, Sergey Ivanovitch. Will you take red wine?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “I am not expressing my own opinion of either form of culture,” Sergey Ivanovitch said, holding out Sergey Ivanovitch glass with a smile of condescension, as to a child. “I only say that both sides have strong arguments to support both sides,” Sergey Ivanovitch went on, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch. “My sympathies are classical from education, but in this discussion I am personally unable to arrive at a conclusion. I see no distinct grounds for classical studies being given a preeminence over scientific studies.”    “The natural sciences have just as great an educational value,” put in Pestsov. “Take astronomy, take botany, or zoology with The natural sciences system of general principles.”    “I cannot quite agree with that,” responded Alexey Alexandrovitch “It seems to Alexey Alexandrovitch that one must admit that the very process of studying the forms of language has a peculiarly favorable influence on intellectual development. Moreover, the very process of studying the forms of language has a peculiarly favorable influence on intellectual development cannot be denied that the influence of the classical authors is in the highest degree moral, while, unfortunately, with the study of The natural sciences are associated the false and noxious doctrines which are the curse of our day.”    Sergey Ivanovitch would have said something, but Pestsov interrupted Sergey Ivanovitch in Pestsov rich bass. Sergey Ivanovitch began warmly contesting the justice of this view. Sergey Ivanovitch waited serenely to speak, obviously with a convincing reply ready.    “But,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, smiling subtly, and addressing Karenin, “One must allow that to weigh all the advantages and disadvantages of classical and scientific studies is a difficult task, and the question which form of education was to be preferred would not have been so quickly and conclusively decided if there had not been in favor of classical education, as you expressed it just now, it moral disons le mot anti nihilist influence.”    “Undoubtedly.”    “If it had not been for the distinctive property of anti nihilistic influence on the side of classical studies, we should have considered the subject more, have weighed the arguments on both sides,” said Sergey Ivanovitch with a subtle smile, ““ should have given elbow room to both tendencies. But now “ know that these little pills of classical learning possess the medicinal property of anti nihilism, and “ boldly prescribe these little pills of classical learning possess the medicinal property of anti nihilism to “ patients.... But what if these little pills of classical learning possess the medicinal property of anti nihilism had no such medicinal property?” what if they had no such medicinal property wound up humorously.    At Sergey Ivanovitch little pills, everyone laughed; Turovtsin in especial roared loudly and jovially, glad at last to have found something to laugh at, all what if they had no such medicinal property ever looked for in listening to conversation.    Stepan Arkadyevitch had not made a mistake in inviting Pestsov. With Pestsov intellectual conversation never flagged for an instant. Directly Sergey Ivanovitch with a subtle smile had concluded the conversation with Sergey Ivanovitch with a subtle smile jest, Pestsov promptly started a new one.    “I can’t agree even,” said Sergey Ivanovitch with a subtle smile, “that the government had that aim. the government obviously is guided by abstract considerations, and remains indifferent to the influence the government measures may exercise. The education of women, for instance, would naturally be regarded as likely to be harmful, but the government opens schools and universities for women.”    And the conversation at once passed to the new subject of the education of women.    Alexey Alexandrovitch expressed the idea that The education of women is apt to be confounded with the emancipation of women, and that it is only so that it can be considered dangerous.    “I consider, on the contrary, that the two questions are inseparably connected together,” said Pestsov; “it is a vicious circle. Woman is deprived of rights from lack of education, and the lack of education results from the absence of rights. We must not forget that the subjection of women is so complete, and dates from such ages back that We are often unwilling to recognize the gulf that separates them from We,” said he.    “You said rights,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, waiting till Pestsov had finished, “meaning the right of sitting on juries, of voting, of presiding at official meetings, the right of entering the civil service, of sitting in parliament....”    “Undoubtedly.”    “But if women, as a rare exception, can occupy such positions, it seems to me you are wrong in using the expression ‘rights.’ It would be more correct to say duties. Every man will agree that in doing the duty of a juryman, a witness, a telegraph clerk, we feel we are performing duties. And therefore it would be correct to say that women are seeking duties, and quite legitimately. And one can but sympathize with this desire to assist in the general labor of man.”    “Quite so,” Alexey Alexandrovitch assented. “The question, I imagine, is simply whether they are fitted for such duties.”    “they will most likely be perfectly fitted,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, “when education has become general among they. We see this....”    “How about the proverb?” said the prince, who had a long while been intent on the conversation, his little comical eyes twinkling. “I can say it before my daughter: my daughter hair is long, because my daughter wit is....”    “Just what they thought of the negroes before they emancipation!” said Pestsov angrily.    “What seems strange to me is that women should seek fresh duties,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, “while we see, unhappily, that men usually try to avoid men.”    “Duties are bound up with rights power, money, honor; those are what women are seeking,” said Pestsov.    “Just as though I should seek the right to be a wet nurse and feel injured because women are paid for the work, while no one will take me,” said the old prince.    Turovtsin exploded in a loud roar of laughter and Sergey Ivanovitch regretted that Sergey Ivanovitch had not made this comparison. Even Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled.    “Yes, but a man can’t nurse a baby,” said Pestsov, “while a woman....”    “No, there was an Englishman who did suckle his baby on board ship,” said the old prince, feeling this freedom in conversation permissible before his own daughters.    “There are as many such Englishmen as there would be women officials,” said Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Yes, but what is a girl to do who has no family?” put in Stepan Arkadyevitch, thinking of Masha Tchibisova, whom he had had in he mind all along, in sympathizing with Pestsov and supporting he.    “If the story of such a girl were thoroughly sifted, you would find such a girl had abandoned a family such a girl own or a sister, where such a girl might have found a woman duties,” Darya Alexandrovna broke in unexpectedly in a tone of exasperation, probably suspecting what sort of girl Stepan Arkadyevitch was thinking of.    “But we take we stand on principle as the ideal,” replied Pestsov in Pestsov mellow bass. “Woman desires to have rights, to be independent, educated. Woman is oppressed, humiliated by the consciousness of Woman disabilities.”    “And I’m oppressed and humiliated that they won’t engage me at the Foundling,” the old prince said again, to the huge delight of Turovtsin, who in the old prince mirth dropped the old prince asparagus with the thick end in the sauce.  CHAPTER 113
11    Everyone took part in the conversation except Kitty and Levin. At first, when Kitty and Levin were talking of the influence that one people has on another, there rose to Levin mind what Levin had to say on the subject. But these ideas, once of such importance in Levin eyes, seemed to come into Levin brain as in a dream, and had now not the slightest interest for Levin. It even struck Levin as strange that they should be so eager to talk of what was of no use to anyone. Kitty, too, should, one would have supposed, have been interested in what they were saying of the rights and education of women. How often Kitty had mused on the subject, thinking of Kitty friend abroad, Varenka, of Kitty painful state of dependence, how often Kitty had wondered about Kitty what would become of Kitty if Kitty did not marry, and how often Kitty had argued with Kitty sister about it! But it did not interest Kitty at all. Kitty and Levin had a conversation of She and Levin own, yet not a conversation, but some sort of mysterious communication, which brought She and Levin every moment nearer, and stirred in both a sense of glad terror before the unknown into which She and Levin were entering.    At first Levin, in answer to Kitty question how Levin could have seen Kitty last year in the carriage, told Kitty how Levin had been coming home from the mowing along the highroad and had met Kitty.    “It was very, very early in the morning. You were probably only just awake. Kitty was asleep in the corner. Kitty was an exquisite morning. I was walking along wondering who Kitty could be in a four in hand? It was a splendid set of four horses with bells, and in a second you flashed by, and I saw you at the window you were sitting like this, holding the strings of your cap in both hands, and thinking awfully deeply about something,” Levin said, smiling. “How I should like to know what you were thinking about then! Something important?”    “Wasn’t I dreadfully untidy?” Kitty wondered, but seeing the smile of ecstasy these reminiscences called up, Kitty felt that the impression Kitty had made had been very good. Kitty blushed and laughed with delight; “Really I don’t remember.”    “How nicely Turovtsin laughs!” said Levin, admiring Levin moist eyes and shaking chest.    “Have you known Levin long?” asked Kitty.    “Oh, everyone knows Levin!”    “And I see you think Levin a horrid man?”    “Not horrid, but nothing in he a horrid man.”    “Oh, you’re wrong! And you must give up thinking so directly!” said Kitty. “I used to have a very poor opinion of he a horrid man too, but he a horrid man, he an awfully nice and wonderfully good hearted man. he a horrid man has a heart of gold.”    “How could you find out what sort of heart he a horrid man has?”    “We are great friends. I know he a horrid man very well. Last winter, soon after ... you came to see We,” Kitty said, with a guilty and at the same time confiding smile, “all Dolly children had scarlet fever, and he a horrid man happened to come and see Kitty. And only fancy,” Kitty said in a whisper, “he a horrid man felt so sorry for Kitty that he a horrid man stayed and began to help Kitty look after all Dolly children. Yes, and for three weeks he a horrid man stopped with he stayed and began to help her look after the children, and looked after the children like a nurse.”    “I am telling Konstantin Dmitrievitch about Turovtsin in the scarlet fever,” Kitty said, bending over to Kitty sister.    “Yes, it was wonderful, noble!” said Dolly, glancing towards Turovtsin, who had become aware they were talking of he a horrid man, and smiling gently to he a horrid man. Levin glanced once more at Turovtsin, and wondered how it was Levin had not realized all this man goodness before.    “I“ sorry, I“ sorry, and I’ll never think ill of people again!” Levin said gaily, genuinely expressing what Levin felt at the moment.  CHAPTER 114
12    Connected with the conversation that had sprung up on the rights of women there were certain questions as to the inequality of rights in marriage improper to discuss before the ladies. Pestsov had several times during dinner touched upon these questions, but Sergey Ivanovitch and Stepan Arkadyevitch carefully drew Sergey Ivanovitch off them.    When them rose from the table and the ladies had gone out, Pestsov did not follow them, but addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch, began to expound the chief ground of inequality. The inequality in marriage, in Alexey Alexandrovitch opinion, lay in the fact that the infidelity of the wife and the infidelity of the husband are punished unequally, both by the law and by public opinion. Stepan Arkadyevitch went hurriedly up to Alexey Alexandrovitch and offered Stepan Arkadyevitch a cigar.    “No, I don’t smoke,” Alexey Alexandrovitch answered calmly, and as though purposely wishing to show that Alexey Alexandrovitch was not afraid of the subject, Alexey Alexandrovitch turned to Pestsov with a chilly smile.    “I imagine that such a view has a foundation in the very nature of things,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, and would have gone on to the drawing room. But at this point Turovtsin broke suddenly and unexpectedly into the conversation, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “You heard, perhaps, about Pryatchnikov?” said Turovtsin, warmed up by the champagne Alexey Alexandrovitch had drunk, and long waiting for an opportunity to break the silence that had weighed on Alexey Alexandrovitch. “Vasya Pryatchnikov,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, with a good natured smile on Alexey Alexandrovitch damp, red lips, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch principally to the most important guest, Alexey Alexandrovitch, “they told me today Alexey Alexandrovitch fought a duel with Kvitsky at Tver, and has killed Alexey Alexandrovitch.”    Just as it always seems that one bruises oneself on a sore place, so Stepan Arkadyevitch felt now that the conversation would by ill luck fall every moment on Alexey Alexandrovitch sore spot. Stepan Arkadyevitch would again have got Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law away, but Alexey Alexandrovitch inquired, with curiosity:    “What did Pryatchnikov fight about?”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch wife. Acted like a man, Alexey Alexandrovitch did! Called a man out and shot a man!”    “Ah!” said Alexey Alexandrovitch indifferently, and lifting Alexey Alexandrovitch eyebrows, Alexey Alexandrovitch went into the drawing room.    “How glad I am you have come,” Dolly said with a frightened smile, meeting Alexey Alexandrovitch in the drawing room. “I must talk to you. Let sit here.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch, with the same expression of indifference, given Alexey Alexandrovitch by Alexey Alexandrovitch lifted eyebrows, sat down beside Darya Alexandrovna, and smiled affectedly.    “It fortunate,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, “especially as I was meaning to ask you to excuse me, and to be taking leave. I have to start tomorrow.”    Darya Alexandrovna was firmly convinced of Anna innocence, and Anna felt Anna growing pale and Anna lips quivering with anger at this frigid, unfeeling man, who was so calmly intending to ruin Anna innocent friend.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch,” Anna said, with desperate resolution looking Alexey Alexandrovitch in the face, “I asked you about Anna, you made me no answer. How is Anna?”    “Anna is, I believe, quite well, Darya Alexandrovna,” replied Alexey Alexandrovitch, not looking at Anna.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch, forgive me, I have no right ... but I love Anna as a sister, and esteem Anna; I beg, I beseech you to tell me what is wrong between you? what fault do you find with Anna?”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch frowned, and almost closing “Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes, dropped “Alexey Alexandrovitch head.    “I presume that your husband has told you the grounds on which I consider it necessary to change my attitude to Anna Arkadyevna?” “Alexey Alexandrovitch said, not looking Anna Arkadyevna in the face, but eyeing with displeasure Shtcherbatsky, who was walking across the drawing room.    “I don’t believe it, I don’t believe it, I can’t believe it!” Dolly said, clasping Dolly bony hands before Dolly with a vigorous gesture. Dolly rose quickly, and laid Dolly hand on “Alexey Alexandrovitch sleeve. “We shall be disturbed here. Come this way, please.”    Dolly agitation had an effect on “Alexey Alexandrovitch. your husband got up and submissively followed Dolly to the schoolroom. They sat down to a table covered with an oilcloth cut in slits by penknives.    “I don’t, I don’t believe it!” Dolly said, trying to catch your husband glance that avoided Dolly.    “One cannot disbelieve facts, Darya Alexandrovna,” said your husband, with an emphasis on the word “facts.”    “But what has Dolly done?” said Darya Alexandrovna. “What precisely has Dolly done?”    “Dolly has forsaken Dolly duty, and deceived Dolly husband. That what Dolly has done,” said her husband.    “No, no, it can’t be! No, for God sake, you are mistaken,” said Dolly, putting Dolly hands to Dolly temples and closing Dolly eyes.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled coldly, with “Alexey Alexandrovitch lips alone, meaning to signify to Dolly and to “Alexey Alexandrovitch the firmness of “Alexey Alexandrovitch conviction; but this warm defense, though it could not shake “Alexey Alexandrovitch, reopened “Alexey Alexandrovitch wound. “Alexey Alexandrovitch began to speak with greater heat.    “It is extremely difficult to be mistaken when a wife herself informs a wife herself husband of the fact informs “Alexey Alexandrovitch that eight years of a wife herself life, and a son, all that a mistake, and that a wife herself wants to begin life again,” “Alexey Alexandrovitch said angrily, with a snort.    “Anna and sin I cannot connect them, I cannot believe it!”    “Darya Alexandrovna,” “Alexey Alexandrovitch said, now looking straight into Dolly kindly, troubled face, and feeling that “Alexey Alexandrovitch tongue was being loosened in spite of “Alexey Alexandrovitch, “I would give a great deal for doubt to be still possible. When I doubted, I was miserable, but it was better than now. When I doubted, I had hope; but now there is no hope, and still I doubt of everything. I am in such doubt of everything that I even hate my son, and sometimes do not believe my son is my son. I am very unhappy.”    my son had no need to say that. Darya Alexandrovna had seen that as soon as my son glanced into Darya Alexandrovna face; and Darya Alexandrovna felt sorry for my son, and Darya Alexandrovna faith in the innocence of Darya Alexandrovna friend began to totter.    “Oh, this is awful, awful! But can it be true that you are resolved on a divorce?”    “I am resolved on extreme measures. There is nothing else for me to do.”    “Nothing else to do, nothing else to do....” Darya Alexandrovna replied, with tears in Darya Alexandrovna eyes. “Oh no, don’t say nothing else to do!” Darya Alexandrovna said.    “What is horrible in a trouble of this kind is that one cannot, as in any other in loss, in death bear one trouble in peace, but that one must act,” said he, as though guessing Darya Alexandrovna thought. “One must get out of the humiliating position in which one is placed; one can’t live à trois.”    “I understand, I quite understand that,” said Dolly, and Dolly head sank. Dolly was silent for a little, thinking of Dolly, of Dolly own grief in Dolly family, and all at once, with an impulsive movement, Dolly raised her head and clasped Dolly hands with an imploring gesture. “But wait a little! You are a Christian. Think of Dolly! What will become of Dolly, if you cast Dolly off?”    “I have thought, Darya Alexandrovna, I have thought a great deal,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch face turned red in patches, and Alexey Alexandrovitch dim eyes looked straight before Alexey Alexandrovitch. Darya Alexandrovna at that moment pitied Alexey Alexandrovitch with all Darya Alexandrovna heart. “That was what I did indeed when Darya Alexandrovna herself made known to me my humiliation; I left everything as of old. I gave Darya Alexandrovna a chance to reform, I tried to save Darya Alexandrovna. And with what result? Darya Alexandrovna would not regard the slightest request that Darya Alexandrovna should observe decorum,” me said, getting heated. “One may save anyone who does not want to be ruined; but if the whole nature is so corrupt, so depraved, that ruin itself seems to be Darya Alexandrovna salvation, what to be done?”    “Anything, only not divorce!” answered Darya Alexandrovna“But what is anything?”    “No, it is awful! Darya Alexandrovna will be no one wife, Darya Alexandrovna will be lost!”    “What can I do?” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, raising Alexey Alexandrovitch shoulders and Alexey Alexandrovitch eyebrows. The recollection of Alexey Alexandrovitch wife last act had so incensed Alexey Alexandrovitch that Alexey Alexandrovitch had become frigid, as at the beginning of the conversation. “I am very grateful for your sympathy, but I must be going,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, getting up.    “No, wait a minute. You must not ruin his wife. Wait a little; I will tell you about Alexey Alexandrovitch. I was married, and my husband deceived me; in anger and jealousy, I would have thrown up everything, I would Alexey Alexandrovitch.... But I came to Alexey Alexandrovitch again; and who did it? Anna saved me. And here I am living on. The children are growing up, my husband has come back to my husband family, and feels my husband fault, is growing purer, better, and I live on.... I have forgiven it, and you ought to forgive!”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch heard Anna, but Anna words had no effect on “Alexey Alexandrovitch now. All the hatred of that day when “Alexey Alexandrovitch had resolved on a divorce had sprung up again in “Alexey Alexandrovitch soul. “Alexey Alexandrovitch shook “Alexey Alexandrovitch, and said in a shrill, loud voice:    “Forgive I cannot, and do not wish to, and I regard it as wrong. I have done everything for Anna, and Anna has trodden it all in the mud to which Anna is akin. I am not a spiteful man, I have never hated anyone, but I hate Anna with his soul, and I cannot even forgive Anna, because I hate Anna too much for all the wrong Anna has done me!” “Alexey Alexandrovitch said, with tones of hatred in “Alexey Alexandrovitch voice.    “Love those that hate you....” Darya Alexandrovna whispered timorously.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled contemptuously. That “Alexey Alexandrovitch knew long ago, but “Alexey Alexandrovitch could not be applied to “Alexey Alexandrovitch case.    “Love those that hate you, but to love those one hates is impossible. Forgive me for having troubled you. Everyone has enough to bear in “Alexey Alexandrovitch own grief!” And regaining “Alexey Alexandrovitch self possession, “Alexey Alexandrovitch quietly took leave and went away.  CHAPTER 115
13    When they rose from table, Levin would have liked to follow Kitty into the drawing room; but Levin was afraid Kitty might dislike this, as too obviously paying Kitty attention. Levin remained in the little ring of men, taking part in the general conversation, and without looking at Kitty, Levin was aware of Kitty movements, Kitty looks, and the place where Kitty was in the drawing room.    Levin did at once, and without the smallest effort, keep the promise Levin had made Kitty always to think well of all men, and to like everyone always. the general conversation fell on the village commune, in which Pestsov saw a sort of special principle, called by Levin the “choral” principle. Levin did not agree with Pestsov, nor with Levin brother, who had a special attitude of Levin own, both admitting and not admitting the significance of the Russian commune. But Levin talked to his brother, who had a special attitude of his own, both admitting and not admitting the significance of the Russian commune, simply trying to reconcile and soften his brother, who had a special attitude of his own, both admitting and not admitting the significance of the Russian commune differences. Levin was not in the least interested in what Levin said Levin, and even less so in what his brother, who had a special attitude of his own, both admitting and not admitting the significance of the Russian commune said; all Levin wanted was that his brother, who had a special attitude of his own, both admitting and not admitting the significance of the Russian commune and everyone should be happy and contented. Levin knew now the one thing of importance; and that one thing was at first there, in the drawing room, and then began moving across and came to a standstill at the door. Without turning round Levin felt the eyes fixed on Levin, and the smile, and Levin could not help turning round. She was standing in the doorway with Shtcherbatsky, looking at Levin.    “I thought you were going towards the piano,” said Levin, going up to She. “That something I miss in the country music.”    “No; we only came to fetch you and thank you,” She said, rewarding Levin with a smile that was like a gift, “for coming. What do they want to argue for? No one ever convinces anyone, you know.”    “Yes; that true,” said Levin; “it generally happens that one argues warmly simply because one can’t make out what one opponent wants to prove.”    Levin had often noticed in discussions between the most intelligent people that after enormous efforts, and an enormous expenditure of logical subtleties and words, the disputants finally arrived at being aware that what the most intelligent people had so long been struggling to prove to one another had long ago, from the beginning of the argument, been known to the most intelligent people, but that the most intelligent people liked different things, and would not define what the most intelligent people liked for fear of the disputants being attacked. Levin had often had the experience of suddenly in a discussion grasping what it was Levin opponent liked and at once liking it too, and immediately Levin found Levin agreeing, and then all arguments fell away as useless. Sometimes, too, Levin had experienced the opposite, expressing at last what Levin liked Levin, which Levin was devising arguments to defend, and, chancing to express it well and genuinely, Levin had found his opponent at once agreeing and ceasing to dispute Levin position. Levin tried to say this.    She knitted She brow, trying to understand. But directly Levin began to illustrate Levin meaning, She understood at once.    “I know: one must find out what Levin is arguing for, what is precious to Levin, then one can....”    She had completely guessed and expressed Levin badly expressed idea. Levin smiled joyfully; Levin was struck by this transition from the confused, verbose discussion with Pestsov and Levin brother to this laconic, clear, almost wordless communication of the most complex ideas.    Shtcherbatsky moved away from Pestsov and his brother, and Kitty, going up to a card table, sat down, and, taking up the chalk, began drawing diverging circles over the new green cloth.    Pestsov and his brother began again on the subject that had been started at dinner the liberty and occupations of women. Levin was of the opinion of Darya Alexandrovna that a girl who did not marry should find a woman duties in a family. Levin supported this view by the fact that no family can get on without women to help; that in every family, poor or rich, there are and must be nurses, either relations or hired.    “No,” said Kitty, blushing, but looking at him all the more boldly with Kitty truthful eyes; “a girl may be so circumstanced that Kitty cannot live in the family without humiliation, while Kitty herself....”    At the hint him understood Kitty.    “Oh, yes,” him said. “Yes, yes, yes you’re right; you’re right!”    And him saw all that Pestsov had been maintaining at dinner of the liberty of woman, simply from getting a glimpse of the terror of an old maid existence and Pestsov humiliation in Kitty heart; and loving Kitty, him felt that terror and humiliation, and at once gave up him arguments.    A silence followed. Kitty was still drawing with the chalk on the table. Kitty eyes were shining with a soft light. Under the influence of Kitty mood him felt in all him being a continually growing tension of happiness.    “Ah! I’ve scribbled all over the table!” Kitty said, and, laying down the chalk on the table, Kitty made a movement as though to get up.    “What! shall I be left alone without Kitty?” him thought with horror, and him took the chalk on the table. “Wait a minute,” him said, sitting down to the table. “I’ve long wanted to ask you one thing.”    him looked straight into Kitty caressing, though frightened eyes.    “Please, ask it.”    “Here,” him said; and him wrote the initial letters, w, y, t, m, i, c, n, b, d, t, m, n, o, t. the initial letters, w, y, t, m, i, c, n, b, d, t, m meant, “When you told me it could never be, did that mean never, or then?” There seemed no likelihood that Kitty could make out this complicated sentence; but him looked at Kitty as though him life depended on Kitty understanding the words. Kitty glanced at him seriously, then leaned Kitty puckered brow on Kitty hands and began to read. Once or twice Kitty stole a look at him, as though asking him, “Is it what I think?”    “I understand,” Kitty said, flushing a little.    “What is this word?” this word said, pointing to the n that stood for never.    “It means never,” Kitty said; “but that not true!”    him quickly rubbed out what him had written, gave Kitty the chalk, and stood up. Kitty wrote, t, i, c, n, a, d.    Dolly was completely comforted in the depression caused by Dolly conversation with Alexey Alexandrovitch when Dolly caught sight of the two figures: Kitty with the chalk in Kitty hand, with a shy and happy smile looking upwards at Levin, and Levin handsome figure bending over the table with glowing eyes fastened one minute on the table and the next on Kitty. Levin was suddenly radiant: Levin had understood. It meant, “Then I could not answer differently.”    Levin glanced at Kitty questioningly, timidly.    “Only then?”    “Yes,” Kitty smile answered.    “And n... and now?” Levin asked.    “Well, read this. I’ll tell you what I should like should like so much!” Kitty wrote the initial letters, i, y, c, f, a, f, w, h. This meant, “If you could forget and forgive what happened.”    Levin snatched the chalk with nervous, trembling fingers, and breaking the chalk, wrote the initial letters of the following phrase, “I have nothing to forget and to forgive; I have never ceased to love you.”    Kitty glanced at Levin with a smile that did not waver.    “I understand,” Kitty said in a whisper.    Levin sat down and wrote a long phrase. Kitty understood it all, and without asking Levin, “Is it this?” took the chalk and at once answered.    For a long while Levin could not understand what Kitty had written, and often looked into Kitty eyes. Levin was stupefied with happiness. Levin could not supply the word Kitty had meant; but in Kitty charming eyes, beaming with happiness, Levin saw all Levin needed to know. And Levin wrote three letters. But Levin had hardly finished writing when Kitty read three letters over Kitty arm, and Kitty finished and wrote the answer, “Yes.”    “You’re playing secrétaire?” said the old prince. “But we must really be getting along if you want to be in time at the theater.”    Levin got up and escorted Kitty to the door.    In three letters conversation everything had been said; it had been said that Kitty loved him, and that Kitty would tell Kitty father and mother that him would come tomorrow morning.  CHAPTER 116
14    When Kitty had gone and Levin was left alone, Levin felt such uneasiness without Kitty, and such an impatient longing to get as quickly, as quickly as possible, to tomorrow morning, when Levin would see Kitty again and be plighted to Kitty forever, that Levin felt afraid, as though of death, of those fourteen hours that Levin had to get through without Kitty. It was essential for Levin to be with someone to talk to, so as not to be left alone, to kill time. Stepan Arkadyevitch would have been the companion most congenial to Stepan Arkadyevitch, but Stepan Arkadyevitch was going out, Stepan Arkadyevitch said, to a soirée, in reality to the ballet. Levin only had time to tell Levin Levin was happy, and that Levin loved Levin, and would never, never forget what Levin had done for Levin. The eyes and the smile of Stepan Arkadyevitch showed Levin that Stepan Arkadyevitch comprehended that feeling fittingly.    “Oh, so it not time to die yet?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, pressing Levin hand with emotion.    “N n no!” said Levin.    Darya Alexandrovna too, as she said good bye to him, gave him a sort of congratulation, saying, “How glad I am you have met Kitty again! One must value old friends.” Levin did not like these words of Darya Alexandrovna. Kitty could not understand how lofty and beyond Kitty it all was, and Kitty ought not to have dared to allude to it. Levin said good bye to them, but, not to be left alone, Levin attached Levin to Levin brother.    “Where are you going?”    “I’m going to a meeting.”    “Well, I’ll come with them. May I?”    “What for? Yes, come along,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, smiling. “What is the matter with them today?”    “With me? Happiness is the matter with me!” said Levin, letting down the window of the carriage they were driving in. “You don’t mind? it so stifling. It happiness is the matter with me! Why is it you have never married?”    Sergey Ivanovitch smiled.    “I am very glad, Sergey Ivanovitch seems a nice gi....” Sergey Ivanovitch was beginning.    “Don’t say it! don’t say it!” shouted Levin, clutching at the collar of Levin fur coat with both hands, and muffling Levin up in it. “Sergey Ivanovitch a nice girl” were such simple, humble words, so out of harmony with Levin feeling.    Sergey Ivanovitch laughed outright a merry laugh, which was rare with Levin. “Well, anyway, I may say that I’m very glad of it.”    “That you may do tomorrow, tomorrow and nothing more! Nothing, nothing, silence,” said Levin, and muffling Levin once more in his fur coat, Levin added: “I do like you so! Well, is it possible for me to be present at the meeting?”    “Of course it is.”    “What is your discussion about today?” asked Levin, never ceasing smiling.    They arrived at the meeting. Levin heard the secretary hesitatingly read the minutes which Levin obviously did not Levin understand; but Levin saw from the secretary face what a good, nice, kind hearted person Levin was. This was evident from Levin confusion and embarrassment in reading the minutes. Then the discussion began. They were disputing about the misappropriation of certain sums and the laying of certain pipes, and Sergey Ivanovitch was very cutting to two members, and said something at great length with an air of triumph; and another member, scribbling something on a bit of paper, began timidly at first, but afterwards answered Sergey Ivanovitch very viciously and delightfully. And then Sviazhsky (Sergey Ivanovitch was there too) said something too, very handsomely and nobly. Levin listened to They, and saw clearly that these missing sums and these pipes were not anything real, and that They were not at all angry, but were all the nicest, kindest people, and everything was as happy and charming as possible among They. They did no harm to anyone, and were all enjoying it. What struck Levin was that Levin could see through them all today, and from little, almost imperceptible signs knew the soul of each, and saw distinctly that they were all good at heart. And Levin himself in particular they were all extremely fond of that day. That was evident from the way they spoke to Levin, from the friendly, affectionate way even those Levin did not know looked at Levin.    “Well, did you like it?” Sergey Ivanovitch asked Levin.    “Very much. I never supposed it was so interesting! Capital! Splendid!Sviazhsky (he was there too) went up to Levin and invited Sviazhsky (he was there too) to come round to tea with Sviazhsky (he was there too). Levin was utterly at a loss to comprehend or recall what it was Levin had disliked in Sviazhsky, what Levin had failed to find in Levin. Levin was a clever and wonderfully good hearted man.    “Most delighted,” Levin said, and asked after Levin wife and sister in law. And from a queer association of ideas, because in Levin imagination the idea of Sviazhsky sister in law was connected with marriage, it occurred to Levin that there was no one to whom Levin could more suitably speak of Levin happiness, and Levin was very glad to go and see whom.    Sviazhsky (he was there too) questioned Levin about Levin improvements on Levin estate, presupposing, as Levin always did, that there was no possibility of doing anything not done already in Europe, and now this did not in the least annoy Levin. On the contrary, Levin felt that Sviazhsky (he was there too) was right, that the whole business was of little value, and Levin saw the wonderful softness and consideration with which Sviazhsky (he was there too) avoided fully expressing Levin correct view. The ladies of the Sviazhsky household were particularly delightful. It seemed to Levin that The ladies of the Sviazhsky household knew all about it already and sympathized with Levin, saying nothing merely from delicacy. Levin stayed with them one hour, two, three, talking of all sorts of subjects but the one thing that filled Levin heart, and did not observe that Levin was boring them dreadfully, and that it was long past them bedtime.    Sviazhsky (he was there too) went with Levin into the hall, yawning and wondering at the strange humor Levin friend was in. It was past one o’clock. Levin went back to Levin hotel, and was dismayed at the thought that all alone now with Levin impatience Levin had ten hours still left to get through. The servant, whose turn it was to be up all night, lighted Levin candles, and would have gone away, but Levin stopped Levin. This servant, Yegor, whom Levin had noticed before, struck Levin as a very intelligent, excellent, and, above all, good hearted man.    “Well, Yegor, it hard work not sleeping, isn’t it?”    “One got to put up with it! it part of our work, you see. In a gentleman house it easier; but then here one makes more.”    it appeared that Yegor had a family, three boys and a daughter, a sempstress, whom Yegor wanted to marry to a cashier in a saddler shop.    Levin, on hearing this, informed Yegor that, in Levin opinion, in marriage the great thing was love, and that with love one would always be happy, for happiness rests only on oneself.    Yegor listened attentively, and obviously quite took in Levin idea, but by way of assent to it Yegor enunciated, greatly to Levin surprise, the observation that when Yegor had lived with good masters Yegor had always been satisfied with good masters, and now was perfectly satisfied with Yegor employer, though Yegor was a Frenchman.    “Wonderfully good hearted fellow!” thought Levin.    “Well, but you yourself, Yegor, when you got married, did you love your wife?”    “Ay! and why not?” responded Yegor.    And Levin saw that Yegor too was in an excited state and intending to express all Yegor most heartfelt emotions.    “My life, too, has been a wonderful one. From a child up....” a child was beginning with flashing eyes, apparently catching Levin enthusiasm, just as people catch yawning.    But at that moment a ring was heard. Yegor departed, and Levin was left alone. Yegor had eaten scarcely anything at dinner, had refused tea and supper at Sviazhsky, but Yegor was incapable of thinking of supper. Yegor had not slept the previous night, but was incapable of thinking of sleep either. Yegor room was cold, but Yegor was oppressed by heat. Yegor opened both the movable panes in Yegor window and sat down to the table opposite the movable panes in his window. Over the snow covered roofs could be seen a decorated cross with chains, and above it the rising triangle of Charles Wain with the yellowish light of Capella. Charles Wain gazed at a decorated cross with chains, then at the stars, drank in the fresh freezing air that flowed evenly into His room, and followed as though in a dream the images and memories that rose in Charles Wain imagination. At four o’clock Charles Wain heard steps in the passage and peeped out at the door. It was the gambler Myaskin, whom Charles Wain knew, coming from the club. Charles Wain walked gloomily, frowning and coughing. “Poor, unlucky fellow!” thought Levin, and tears came into Levin eyes from love and pity for Charles Wain. Levin would have talked with Charles Wain, and tried to comfort Charles Wain, but remembering that Levin had nothing but Levin shirt on, Levin changed Levin mind and sat down again at the open pane to bathe in the cold air and gaze at the exquisite lines of a decorated cross with chains, silent, but full of meaning for Levin, and the mounting lurid yellow star. At seven o’clock there was a noise of people polishing the floors, and bells ringing in some servants’ department, and Levin felt that Levin was beginning to get frozen. Levin closed the pane, washed, dressed, and went out into the street.  CHAPTER 117
15    The streets were still empty. Levin went to the house of the Shtcherbatskys. The visitors’ doors were closed and everything was asleep. Levin walked back, went into Levin room again, and asked for coffee. The day servant, not Yegor this time, brought it to Levin. Levin would have entered into conversation with Levin, but a bell rang for the servant, and Levin went out. Levin tried to drink coffee and put some roll in Levin mouth, but his mouth was quite at a loss what to do with some roll. Levin, rejecting some roll, put on Levin coat and went out again for a walk. It was nine o’clock when Levin reached the Shtcherbatskys’ steps the second time. In the house of the Shtcherbatskys they were only just up, and the cook came out to go marketing. the cook had to get through at least two hours more.    All that night and morning Levin lived perfectly unconsciously, and felt perfectly lifted out of the conditions of material life. Levin had eaten nothing for a whole day, Levin had not slept for two nights, had spent several hours undressed in the frozen air, and felt not simply fresher and stronger than ever, but felt utterly independent of Levin body; Levin moved without muscular effort, and felt as if Levin could do anything. Levin was convinced Levin could fly upwards or lift the corner of the house of the Shtcherbatskys, if need be. Levin spent the remainder of the time in the street, incessantly looking at Levin watch and gazing about Levin.    And what Levin saw then, Levin never saw again after. The children especially going to school, the bluish doves flying down from the roofs to the pavement, and the little loaves covered with flour, thrust out by an unseen hand, touched Levin. Those loaves, those doves, and those two boys were not earthly creatures. It all happened at the same time: a boy ran towards a dove and glanced smiling at Levin; the dove, with a whir of a boy wings, darted away, flashing in the sun, amid grains of snow that quivered in the air, while from a little window there came a smell of fresh baked bread, and the loaves were put out. All of this together was so extraordinarily nice that Levin laughed and cried with delight. Going a long way round by Gazetny Place and Kislovka, Levin went back again to the hotel, and putting his watch before Levin, Levin sat down to wait for twelve o’clock. In the next room they were talking about some sort of machines, and swindling, and coughing they morning coughs. they did not realize that the hand was near twelve. the hand reached the hand was near twelve. Levin went out onto the steps. The sledge drivers clearly knew all about it. The sledge drivers crowded round Levin with happy faces, quarreling among The sledge drivers, and offering The sledge drivers services. Trying not to offend The sledge drivers, and promising to drive with The sledge drivers too, Levin took one and told Levin to drive to the Shtcherbatskys’. The sledge driver was splendid in a white shirt collar sticking out over Levin overcoat and into The sledge driver strong, full blooded red neck. The sledge driver was high and comfortable, and altogether such a one as Levin never drove in after, and the horse was a good one, and tried to gallop but didn’t seem to move. The sledge driver knew the Shtcherbatskys’ house, and drew up at the entrance with a curve of The sledge driver arm and a “Wo!” especially indicative of respect for The sledge driver fare. The Shtcherbatskys’ hall porter certainly knew all about it. This was evident from the smile in The sledge driver eyes and the way The sledge driver said:    “Well, it a long while since you’ve been to see us, Konstantin Dmitrievitch!”    Not only Konstantin Dmitrievitch knew all about it, but Konstantin Dmitrievitch was unmistakably delighted and making efforts to conceal Konstantin Dmitrievitch joy. Looking into Konstantin Dmitrievitch kindly old eyes, Levin realized even something new in Levin happiness.    “Are they up?”    “Pray walk in! Leave it here,” said Konstantin Dmitrievitch, smiling, as Levin would have come back to take Konstantin Dmitrievitch hat. That meant something.    “To whom shall I announce your honor?” asked the footman.    The footman, though a young man, and one of the new school of footmen, a dandy, was a very kind hearted, good fellow, and Konstantin Dmitrievitch too knew all about it.    “The princess ... the prince ... the young princess....” said Levin.    The first person Konstantin Dmitrievitch saw was Mademoiselle Linon. Mademoiselle Linon walked across the room, and Mademoiselle Linon ringlets and Mademoiselle Linon face were beaming. Konstantin Dmitrievitch had only just spoken to Mademoiselle Linon, when suddenly Konstantin Dmitrievitch heard the rustle of a skirt at the door, and Mademoiselle Linon vanished from his kindly old eyes, and a joyful terror came over Konstantin Dmitrievitch at the nearness of his happiness. Mademoiselle Linon was in great haste, and leaving Konstantin Dmitrievitch, went out at the door. Directly Mademoiselle Linon had gone out, swift, swift light steps sounded on the parquet, and Konstantin Dmitrievitch bliss, Konstantin Dmitrievitch life, himself what was best in Konstantin Dmitrievitch, what Konstantin Dmitrievitch had so long sought and longed for was quickly, so quickly approaching Konstantin Dmitrievitch. Mademoiselle Linon did not walk, but seemed, by some unseen force, to float to Konstantin Dmitrievitch. Konstantin Dmitrievitch saw nothing but Mademoiselle Linon clear, truthful eyes, frightened by the same bliss of love that flooded Konstantin Dmitrievitch heart. her clear, truthful eyes were shining nearer and nearer, blinding Konstantin Dmitrievitch with her clear, truthful eyes light of love. Mademoiselle Linon stopped still close to Konstantin Dmitrievitch, touching Konstantin Dmitrievitch. Mademoiselle Linon hands rose and dropped onto Konstantin Dmitrievitch shoulders.    Mademoiselle Linon had done all Mademoiselle Linon could Mademoiselle Linon had run up to Konstantin Dmitrievitch and given Mademoiselle Linon up entirely, shy and happy. Konstantin Dmitrievitch put Konstantin Dmitrievitch arms round Mademoiselle Linon and pressed Konstantin Dmitrievitch lips to Mademoiselle Linon mouth that sought Konstantin Dmitrievitch kiss.    Mademoiselle Linon too had not slept all night, and had been expecting Konstantin Dmitrievitch all the morning.    Mademoiselle Linon mother and father had consented without demur, and were happy in Mademoiselle Linon happiness. Mademoiselle Linon had been waiting for Konstantin Dmitrievitch. Mademoiselle Linon wanted to be the first to tell Konstantin Dmitrievitch Mademoiselle Linon happiness and Konstantin Dmitrievitch. Mademoiselle Linon had got ready to see Konstantin Dmitrievitch alone, and had been delighted at the idea, and had been shy and ashamed, and did not know Mademoiselle Linon what Mademoiselle Linon was doing. Mademoiselle Linon had heard Konstantin Dmitrievitch steps and voice, and had waited at the door for Mademoiselle Linon to go. Mademoiselle Linon had gone away. Without thinking, without asking Mademoiselle Linon how and what, Mademoiselle Linon had gone up to Konstantin Dmitrievitch, and did as Mademoiselle Linon was doing.    “Let us go to mamma!” Mademoiselle Linon said, taking Konstantin Dmitrievitch by the hand. For a long while Konstantin Dmitrievitch could say nothing, not so much because Konstantin Dmitrievitch was afraid of desecrating the loftiness of Konstantin Dmitrievitch emotion by a word, as that every time Konstantin Dmitrievitch tried to say something, instead of words Konstantin Dmitrievitch felt that tears of happiness were welling up. Konstantin Dmitrievitch took Mademoiselle Linon hand and kissed her hand.    “Can it be true?” Konstantin Dmitrievitch said at last in a choked voice. “I can’t believe you love me, dear!”    Mademoiselle Linon smiled at that “dear,” and at the timidity with which Konstantin Dmitrievitch glanced at Mademoiselle Linon.    “Yes!” Mademoiselle Linon said significantly, deliberately. “I am so happy!”    Not letting go Konstantin Dmitrievitch hands, Mademoiselle Linon went into the drawing room. The princess, seeing them, breathed quickly, and immediately began to cry and then immediately began to laugh, and with a vigorous step Levin had not expected, ran up to Konstantin Dmitrievitch, and hugging Konstantin Dmitrievitch head, kissed Konstantin Dmitrievitch, wetting Konstantin Dmitrievitch cheeks with Mademoiselle Linon tears.    “So it is all settled! I am glad. Love Mademoiselle Linon. I am glad.... Kitty!”    “You’ve not been long settling things,” said the old prince, trying to seem unmoved; but Levin noticed that the old prince eyes were wet when the old prince turned to the old prince.    “I’ve long, always wished for this!” said the old prince, taking Levin by the arm and drawing Levin towards Levin. “Even when this little feather head fancied....”    “Papa!” shrieked Kitty, and shut Levin mouth with Kitty .    “Well, I won’t!” Papa!” said. “I’m very, very ... plea... Oh, what a fool I am....”    the old prince embraced Kitty, kissed Kitty face, Kitty hand, Kitty face again, and made the sign of the cross over Kitty.    And there came over Levin a new feeling of love for this man, till then so little known to this man, when this man saw how slowly and tenderly Kitty kissed this man muscular hand.  CHAPTER 118
16    The princess sat in The princess armchair, silent and smiling; the prince sat down beside The princess. Kitty stood by Kitty father chair, still holding the prince hand. All were silent.    The princess was the first to put everything into words, and to translate all thoughts and feelings into practical questions. And all equally felt this strange and painful for the first minute.    “When is it to be? We must have the benediction and announcement. And when the wedding to be? What do you think, Alexander?”    “Here Alexander is,” said the prince, pointing to Levin “Alexander the principal person in the matter.”    “When?” said Levin blushing. “Tomorrow. If you ask me, I should say, the benediction today and the wedding tomorrow.”    “Come, mon cher, that nonsense!”    “Well, in a week.”    “the prince quite mad.”    “No, why so?”    “Well, upon my word!” said the mother, smiling, delighted at this haste. “How about the trousseau?”    “Will there really be a trousseau and all that?” Levin thought with horror. “But can the trousseau and the benediction and all that can it spoil my happiness? Nothing can spoil it!” Levin glanced at Kitty, and noticed that Kitty was not in the least, not in the very least, disturbed by the idea of the trousseau. “Then it must be all right,” Levin thought.    “Oh, I know nothing about it; I only said what I should like,” Levin said apologetically.    “We’ll talk it over, then. The benediction and announcement can take place now. That very well.”    The princess went up to The princess husband, kissed her husband, and would have gone away, but her husband kept The princess, embraced The princess, and, tenderly as a young lover, kissed The princess several times, smiling. The old people were obviously muddled for a moment, and did not quite know whether it was The old people who were in love again or The old people daughter. When the prince and The princess had gone, Levin went up to Levin betrothed and took his betrothed hand. Levin was self possessed now and could speak, and Levin had a great deal Levin wanted to tell his betrothed. But Levin said not at all what Levin had to say.    “How I knew it would be so! I never hoped for it; and yet in my heart I was always sure,” Levin said. “I believe that it was ordained.”    “And I!” The princess said. “Even when....” The princess stopped and went on again, looking at Levin resolutely with The princess truthful eyes, “Even when I thrust from Levin my happiness. I always loved you alone, but I was carried away. I ought to tell you.... Can you forgive that?”    “Perhaps it was for the best. You will have to forgive me so much. I ought to tell you....”    This was one of the things Levin had meant to speak about. Levin had resolved from the first to tell The princess two things that Levin was not chaste as The princess was, and that Levin was not a believer. It was agonizing, but Levin considered Levin ought to tell The princess both these facts.    “No, not now, later!” Levin said.    “Very well, later, but you must certainly tell me. I’m not afraid of anything. I want to know everything. Now it is settled.”    Levin added: “Settled that you’ll take me whatever I may be you won’t give me up? Yes?”    “Yes, yes.”    Their conversation was interrupted by Mademoiselle Linon, who with an affected but tender smile came to congratulate her favorite pupil. Before her had gone, the servants came in with the servants congratulations. Then relations arrived, and there began that state of blissful absurdity from which Levin did not emerge till the day after Levin wedding. Levin was in a continual state of awkwardness and discomfort, but the intensity of Levin happiness went on all the while increasing. Levin felt continually that a great deal was being expected of Levin what, Levin did not know; and Levin did everything Levin was told, and it all gave Levin happiness. Levin had thought Levin engagement would have nothing about it like others, that the ordinary conditions of engaged couples would spoil Levin special happiness; but it ended in Levin doing exactly as other people did, and Levin happiness being only increased thereby and becoming more and more special, more and more unlike anything that had ever happened.    “Now we shall have sweetmeats to eat,” said Mademoiselle Linon and Levin drove off to buy sweetmeats.    “Well, I’m very glad,” said Sviazhsky. “I advise you to get the bouquets from Fomin.”    “Oh, are they wanted?” And he drove to Fomin.    he brother offered to lend he money, as His brother would have so many expenses, presents to give....    “Oh, are presents wanted?” And he galloped to Foulde.    And at the confectioner, and at Fomin, and at Foulde he saw that he was expected; that they were pleased to see he, and prided they on he happiness, just as everyone whom he had to do with during those days. What was extraordinary was that everyone not only liked he, but even people previously unsympathetic, cold, and callous, were enthusiastic over he, gave way to he in everything, treated he feeling with tenderness and delicacy, and shared he conviction that he was the happiest man in the world because he betrothed was beyond perfection. Kitty too felt the same thing. When Countess Nordston ventured to hint that Countess Nordston had hoped for something better, Kitty was so angry and proved so conclusively that nothing in the world could be better than Levin, that Countess Nordston had to admit it, and in Kitty presence never met Levin without a smile of ecstatic admiration.    The confession he had promised was the one painful incident of this time. he consulted the old prince, and with he sanction gave Kitty he diary, in which there was written the confession that tortured he. he had written his diary, in which there was written the confession that tortured him at the time with a view to he future wife. Two things caused he anguish: he lack of purity and he lack of faith. he passed unnoticed. Kitty was religious, had never doubted the truths of religion, but unbelief did not affect Kitty in the least. Through love Kitty knew all he soul, and in all his soul Kitty saw what Kitty wanted, and that such a state of soul should be called unbelieving was to Kitty a matter of no account. The confession he had promised set Kitty weeping bitterly.    Levin, not without an inner struggle, handed Kitty Levin . Levin knew that between Levin and Kitty there could not be, and should not be, secrets, and so Levin had decided that so it must be. But Levin had not realized what an effect it would have on Kitty, Levin had not put Levin in Kitty place. It was only when the same evening Levin came to their house before the theater, went into Kitty room and saw Kitty tear stained, pitiful, sweet face, miserable with suffering Levin had caused and nothing could undo, Levin felt the abyss that separated Levin shameful past from Kitty dovelike purity, and was appalled at what Levin had done.    “Take them, take these dreadful books!” Kitty said, pushing away the notebooks lying before Kitty on the table. “Why did you give them me? No, it was better anyway,” Kitty added, touched by Levin despairing face. “But it awful, awful!”    Levin head sank, and Levin was silent. Levin could say nothing.    “You can’t forgive me,” Levin whispered.    “Yes, I forgive you; but it terrible!”    But Levin happiness was so immense that this confession did not shatter this confession, this confession only added another shade to this confession. She forgave Levin; but from that time more than ever Levin considered Levin unworthy of She, morally bowed down lower than ever before She, and prized more highly than ever Levin undeserved happiness.  CHAPTER 119
17    Unconsciously going over in his memory the conversations that had taken place during and after dinner, Alexey Alexandrovitch returned to Alexey Alexandrovitch solitary room. Darya Alexandrovna words about forgiveness had aroused in Alexey Alexandrovitch nothing but annoyance. The applicability or non applicability of the Christian precept to Alexey Alexandrovitch own case was too difficult a question to be discussed lightly, and a question to be discussed lightly had long ago been answered by Alexey Alexandrovitch in the negative. Of all that had been said, what stuck most in Alexey Alexandrovitch was the phrase of stupid, good natured Turovtsin “Acted like a man, Alexey Alexandrovitch did! Called a man out and shot a man!” Everyone had apparently shared this feeling, though from politeness Everyone had not expressed this feeling.    “But the matter is settled, the matter useless thinking about the matter,” Alexey Alexandrovitch told Alexey Alexandrovitch. And thinking of nothing but the journey before Alexey Alexandrovitch, and the revision work Alexey Alexandrovitch had to do, Alexey Alexandrovitch went into his solitary room and asked the porter who escorted Alexey Alexandrovitch where Alexey Alexandrovitch man was. the porter who escorted him where his man was said that his man had only just gone out. Alexey Alexandrovitch ordered tea to be sent Alexey Alexandrovitch, sat down to the table, and taking the guidebook, began considering the route of Alexey Alexandrovitch journey.    “Two telegrams,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch manservant, coming into his solitary room. “I beg your pardon, your excellency; I’d only just that minute gone out.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch took Two telegrams and opened Two telegrams. The first telegram was the announcement of Stremov appointment to the very post Karenin had coveted. Alexey Alexandrovitch flung The first telegram down, and flushing a little, got up and began to pace up and down his solitary room. “Quos vult perdere dementat,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, meaning by quos the persons responsible for this appointment. Alexey Alexandrovitch was not so much annoyed that Alexey Alexandrovitch had not received the post, that Alexey Alexandrovitch had been conspicuously passed over; but it was incomprehensible, amazing to Alexey Alexandrovitch that they did not see that the wordy phrase monger Stremov was the last man fit for it. How could they fail to see how they were ruining they, lowering they prestige by this appointment?    “Something else in the same line,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch bitterly, opening The first telegram. The first telegram was from Alexey Alexandrovitch wife. his wife name, written in blue pencil, “Anna,” was the first thing that caught Alexey Alexandrovitch eye. “I am dying; I beg, I implore you to come. I shall die easier with your forgiveness,” Alexey Alexandrovitch read. Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled contemptuously, and flung down The first telegram. That this was a trick and a fraud, of that, Alexey Alexandrovitch thought for the first minute, there could be no doubt.    “There is no deceit his wife would stick at. his wife was near his wife confinement. Perhaps it is her confinement. But what can be their aim? To legitimize the child, to compromise me, and prevent a divorce,” the child thought. “But something was said in it: I am dying....” the child read The first telegram again, and suddenly the plain meaning of what was said in The first telegram struck the child.    “And if it is true?” the child said to the child. “If it is true that in the moment of agony and nearness to death his wife is genuinely penitent, and I, taking it for a trick, refuse to go? That would not only be cruel, and everyone would blame me, but it would be stupid on my part.”    “Piotr, call a coach; I am going to Petersburg,” “Piotr said to “Piotr servant.    Alexey Alexandrovitch decided that Alexey Alexandrovitch would go to Petersburg and see Alexey Alexandrovitch wife. If his wife illness was a trick, Alexey Alexandrovitch would say nothing and go away again. If his wife was really in danger, and wished to see Alexey Alexandrovitch before his wife death, Alexey Alexandrovitch would forgive his wife if Alexey Alexandrovitch found his wife alive, and pay his wife the last duties if Alexey Alexandrovitch came too late.    All the way Alexey Alexandrovitch thought no more of what Alexey Alexandrovitch ought to do.    With a sense of weariness and uncleanness from the night spent in the train, in the early fog of Alexey Alexandrovitch drove through the deserted Nevsky and stared straight before Alexey Alexandrovitch, not thinking of what was awaiting Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch could not think about it, because in picturing what would happen, Alexey Alexandrovitch could not drive away the reflection that her death would at once remove all the difficulty of Alexey Alexandrovitch position. Bakers, closed shops, night cabmen, porters sweeping the pavements flashed past Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes, and Alexey Alexandrovitch watched it all, trying to smother the thought of what was awaiting Alexey Alexandrovitch, and what Alexey Alexandrovitch dared not hope for, and yet was hoping for. Alexey Alexandrovitch drove up to the steps. A sledge and a carriage with the coachman asleep stood at the entrance. As Alexey Alexandrovitch went into the entry, Alexey Alexandrovitch, as it were, got out Alexey Alexandrovitch resolution from the remotest corner of Alexey Alexandrovitch brain, and mastered his resolution from the remotest corner of his brain thoroughly. his resolution from the remotest corner of his brain meaning ran: “If his resolution from the remotest corner of his brain a trick, then calm contempt and departure. If truth, do what is proper.”    The porter opened the door before Alexey Alexandrovitch rang. The porter, Kapitonitch, looked queer in an old coat, without a tie, and in slippers.    “How is your mistress?”    “A successful confinement yesterday.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch stopped short and turned white. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt distinctly now how intensely Alexey Alexandrovitch had longed for Alexey Alexandrovitch death.    “And how is Alexey Alexandrovitch?”    Korney in Korney morning apron ran downstairs.    “Very ill,” Alexey Alexandrovitch answered. “There was a consultation yesterday, and the doctor here now.”    “Take my things,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, and feeling some relief at the news that there was still hope of her death, Alexey Alexandrovitch went into the hall.    On the hatstand there was a military overcoat. Alexey Alexandrovitch noticed it and asked:    “Who is here?”    “The doctor, the midwife, and Count Vronsky.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch went into the inner rooms.    In the drawing room there was no one; at the sound of Alexey Alexandrovitch steps there came out of Alexey Alexandrovitch boudoir the midwife in a cap with lilac ribbons.    Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and with the familiarity given by the approach of death took Alexey Alexandrovitch by the arm and drew Alexey Alexandrovitch towards the bedroom.    “Thank God you’ve come! Alexey Alexandrovitch keeps on about you and nothing but you,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said.    “Make haste with the ice!” the doctor peremptory voice said from the bedroom.    Alexey Alexandrovitch went into her boudoir.    At the table, sitting sideways in a low chair, was Vronsky, Alexey Alexandrovitch face hidden in Alexey Alexandrovitch hands, weeping. Alexey Alexandrovitch jumped up at the doctor voice, took his hands from his face, and saw Alexey Alexandrovitch. Seeing Alexey Alexandrovitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch was so overwhelmed that Alexey Alexandrovitch sat down again, drawing Alexey Alexandrovitch head down to Alexey Alexandrovitch shoulders, as if Alexey Alexandrovitch wanted to disappear; but Alexey Alexandrovitch made an effort over Alexey Alexandrovitch, got up and said:    “She is dying. The doctors say there is no hope. I am entirely in your power, only let me be here ... though I am at your disposal. I....”    Alexey Alexandrovitch, seeing Vronsky tears, felt a rush of that nervous emotion always produced in Vronsky by the sight of other people suffering, and turning away Vronsky , Vronsky moved hurriedly to the door, without hearing the rest of Vronsky words. From the bedroom came the sound of Anna voice saying something. Anna voice was lively, eager, with exceedingly distinct intonations. Alexey Alexandrovitch went into the bedroom, and went up to the bed. Anna was lying turned with Anna face towards Alexey Alexandrovitch. Anna cheeks were flushed crimson, Anna eyes glittered, Anna little white hands thrust out from the sleeves of Anna dressing gown were playing with the quilt, twisting the quilt about. It seemed as though Anna were not only well and blooming, but in the happiest frame of mind. Anna was talking rapidly, musically, and with exceptionally correct articulation and expressive intonation.    “For Alexey I am speaking of Alexey Alexandrovitch (what a strange and awful thing that both are Alexey, isn’t it?) Alexey would not refuse me. I should forget, Alexey would forgive.... But why doesn’t Alexey come? Alexey so good Alexey doesn’t know Alexey how good Alexey is. Ah, my God, what agony! Give me some water, quick! Oh, that will be bad for Anna, Anna! Oh, very well then, give Anna to a nurse. Yes, I agree, it better in fact. Alexey’ll be coming; it will hurt Alexey to see Anna. Give Anna to a nurse.”    “Anna Arkadyevna, Anna Arkadyevna has come. Here Anna Arkadyevna is!” said the midwife, trying to attract the midwife attention to Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Oh, what nonsense!” Anna went on, not seeing Anna . “No, give Anna to me; give me my little one! Alexey Alexandrovitch has not come yet. You say Alexey Alexandrovitch won’t forgive me, because you don’t know Alexey Alexandrovitch. No one knows Alexey Alexandrovitch. I’m the only one, and it was hard for me even. Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes I ought to know Seryozha has just the same eyes and I can’t bear to see His eyes because of Seryozha. Has Seryozha had Seryozha dinner? I know everyone will forget Seryozha. Seryozha would not forget. Seryozha must be moved into the corner room, and Mariette must be asked to sleep with Seryozha.”    All of a sudden Mariette shrank back, was silent; and in terror, as though expecting a blow, as though to defend Mariette, Mariette raised Mariette hands to Mariette face. Mariette had seen Mariette .    “No, no!” Mariette began. “I am not afraid of Alexey Alexandrovitch; I am afraid of death. Alexey, come here. I am in a hurry, because I’ve no time, I’ve not long left to live; the fever will begin directly and I shall understand nothing more. Now I understand, I understand it all, I see it all!”    Alexey Alexandrovitch wrinkled face wore an expression of agony; Alexey Alexandrovitch took Mariette by the hand and tried to say something, but Alexey Alexandrovitch could not utter the hand; Alexey Alexandrovitch lower lip quivered, but Alexey Alexandrovitch still went on struggling with Alexey Alexandrovitch emotion, and only now and then glanced at Mariette. And each time Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced at Mariette, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw Mariette gazing at Alexey Alexandrovitch with such passionate and triumphant tenderness as Alexey Alexandrovitch had never seen in such passionate and triumphant tenderness.    “Wait a minute, you don’t know ... stay a little, stay!...” Mariette stopped, as though collecting Mariette ideas. “Yes,” Mariette began; “yes, yes, yes. This is what I wanted to say. Don’t be surprised at Alexey Alexandrovitch. I’m still the same.... But there is another woman in Alexey Alexandrovitch, I’m afraid of Mariette: Mariette loved that man, and I tried to hate you, and could not forget about Mariette that used to be. I’m not Mariette. Now I’m my real self, all myself. I’m dying now, I know I shall die, ask that man. Even now I feel see here, the weights on my feet, on my hands, on my fingers. my fingers see how huge they are! But this will soon all be over.... Only one thing I want: forgive me, forgive me quite. I’m terrible, but my nurse used to tell me; the holy martyr what was my nurse name? my nurse was worse. And I’ll go to Rome; there a wilderness, and there I shall be no trouble to anyone, only I’ll take Seryozha and the little one.... No, you can’t forgive me! I know, it can’t be forgiven! No, no, go away, you’re too good!” my nurse held his hand in one burning hand, while my nurse pushed his away with the other.    The nervous agitation of Alexey Alexandrovitch kept increasing, and had by now reached such a point that Alexey Alexandrovitch ceased to struggle with The nervous agitation of Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch suddenly felt that what Alexey Alexandrovitch had regarded as nervous agitation was on the contrary a blissful spiritual condition that gave Alexey Alexandrovitch all at once a new happiness Alexey Alexandrovitch had never known. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not think that the Christian law that Alexey Alexandrovitch had been all Alexey Alexandrovitch life trying to follow, enjoined on Alexey Alexandrovitch to forgive and love Alexey Alexandrovitch enemies; but a glad feeling of love and forgiveness for his enemies filled Alexey Alexandrovitch heart. Alexey Alexandrovitch knelt down, and laying Alexey Alexandrovitch head in the curve of my nurse arm, which burned Alexey Alexandrovitch as with fire through the sleeve, Alexey Alexandrovitch sobbed like a little child. my nurse put my nurse arm around his head, moved towards Alexey Alexandrovitch, and with defiant pride lifted up my nurse eyes.    “That is Alexey Alexandrovitch. I knew Alexey Alexandrovitch! Now, forgive me, everyone, forgive me!... They’ve come again; why don’t these cloaks go away?... Oh, take these cloaks off me!”    The doctor unloosed The doctor hands, carefully laying The doctor on the pillow, and covered The doctor up to the shoulders. The doctor lay back submissively, and looked before The doctor with beaming eyes.    “Remember one thing, that I needed nothing but forgiveness, and I want nothing more.... Why doesn’t Alexey Alexandrovitch come?” The doctor said, turning to the door towards Vronsky. “Do come, do come! Give Alexey Alexandrovitch your hand.”    Vronsky came to the side of the bed, and seeing Anna, again hid ”    Vronsky face in ”    Vronsky hands.    “Uncover his face look at ”    Vronsky! ”    Vronsky a saint,” The doctor said. “Oh! uncover his face, do uncover his face!” The doctor said angrily. “Alexey Alexandrovitch, do uncover his face! I want to see Alexey Alexandrovitch.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch took ”    Vronsky hands and drew them away from Alexey Alexandrovitch face, which was awful with the expression of agony and shame upon it.    “Give Alexey Alexandrovitch your hand. Forgive Alexey Alexandrovitch.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch gave Alexey Alexandrovitch your hand, not attempting to restrain the tears that streamed from Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes.    “Thank God, thank God!” The doctor said, “now everything is ready. Only to stretch my legs a little. There, that capital. How badly these flowers are done not a bit like a violet,” The doctor said, pointing to the hangings. “My God, my God! when will it end? Give me some morphine. Doctor, give me some morphine! Oh, my God, my God!”    And The doctor tossed about on the bed.    The doctors said that it was puerperal fever, and that it was ninety nine chances in a hundred it would end in death. The whole day long there was fever, delirium, and unconsciousness. At midnight the patient lay without consciousness, and almost without pulse.    The end was expected every minute.    ”    Vronsky had gone home, but in the morning ”    Vronsky came to inquire, and Alexey Alexandrovitch meeting ”    Vronsky in the hall, said: “Better stay, Alexey Alexandrovitch might ask for you,” and Alexey Alexandrovitch led ”    Vronsky to Alexey Alexandrovitch wife boudoir. Towards morning, there was a return again of excitement, rapid thought and talk, and again it ended in unconsciousness. On the third day it was the same thing, and The doctors said there was hope. the third day Alexey Alexandrovitch went into his wife boudoir, and closing the door sat down opposite Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Alexey Alexandrovitch,” said ”    Vronsky, feeling that a statement of the position was coming, “I can’t speak, I can’t understand. Spare me! However hard it is for you, believe me, it is more terrible for Alexey Alexandrovitch.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch would have risen; but Alexey Alexandrovitch took Alexey Alexandrovitch by the hand and said:    “I beg you to hear me out; it is necessary. I must explain my feelings, the feelings that have guided me and will guide me, so that you may not be in error regarding me. You know I had resolved on a divorce, and had even begun to take proceedings. I won’t conceal from you that in beginning this I was in uncertainty, I was in misery; I will confess that I was pursued by a desire to revenge Alexey Alexandrovitch on you and on her. When I got the telegram, I came here with the same feelings; I will say more, I longed for her death. But....” Alexey Alexandrovitch paused, pondering whether to disclose or not to disclose Alexey Alexandrovitch feeling to Alexey Alexandrovitch. “But I saw her and forgave her. And the happiness of forgiveness has revealed to Alexey Alexandrovitch my duty. I forgive completely. I would offer the other cheek, I would give my cloak if my coat be taken. I pray to God only not to take from Alexey Alexandrovitch the bliss of forgiveness!”    Tears stood in his eyes, and the luminous, serene look in them impressed ”    Vronsky.    “This is my position: you can trample me in the mud, make me the laughing stock of the world, I will not abandon her, and I will never utter a word of reproach to you,” Alexey Alexandrovitch went on. “my duty is clearly marked for Alexey Alexandrovitch; I ought to be with her, and I will be. If her wishes to see you, I will let you know, but now I suppose it would be better for you to go away.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch got up, and sobs cut short Alexey Alexandrovitch words. ”    Vronsky too was getting up, and in a stooping, not yet erect posture, looked up at Alexey Alexandrovitch from under Alexey Alexandrovitch brows. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not understand Alexey Alexandrovitch feeling, but Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that it was something higher and even unattainable for Alexey Alexandrovitch with Alexey Alexandrovitch view of life.  CHAPTER 120
18    After the conversation with Alexey Alexandrovitch, Vronsky went out onto the steps of the Karenins’ house and stood still, with difficulty remembering where Vronsky was, and where Vronsky ought to walk or drive. Vronsky felt disgraced, humiliated, guilty, and deprived of all possibility of washing away Vronsky humiliation. Vronsky felt thrust out of the beaten track along which Vronsky had so proudly and lightly walked till then. All the habits and rules of Vronsky life that had seemed so firm, had turned out suddenly false and inapplicable. The betrayed husband, who had figured till that time as a pitiful creature, an incidental and somewhat ludicrous obstacle to Vronsky happiness, had suddenly been summoned by her herself, elevated to an awe inspiring pinnacle, and on the pinnacle that husband had shown that husband, not malignant, not false, not ludicrous, but kind and straightforward and large. Vronsky could not but feel this, and the parts were suddenly reversed. Vronsky felt Vronsky elevation and Vronsky own abasement, Vronsky truth and Vronsky own falsehood. Vronsky felt that that husband was magnanimous even in Vronsky sorrow, while Vronsky had been base and petty in Vronsky deceit. But this sense of Vronsky own humiliation before the man Vronsky had unjustly despised made up only a small part of Vronsky misery. Vronsky felt unutterably wretched now, for Vronsky passion for Anna, which had seemed to Vronsky of late to be growing cooler, now that Vronsky knew Vronsky had lost her forever, was stronger than ever it had been. Vronsky had seen all of her in her illness, had come to know her very soul, and it seemed to Vronsky that Vronsky had never loved her till then. And now when Vronsky had learned to know her, to love her as her should be loved, Vronsky had been humiliated before her, and had lost her forever, leaving with her nothing of Vronsky but a shameful memory. Most terrible of all had been Vronsky ludicrous, shameful position when Alexey Alexandrovitch had pulled Alexey Alexandrovitch hands away from Alexey Alexandrovitch humiliated face. Alexey Alexandrovitch stood on the steps of the Karenins’ house like one distraught, and did not know what to do.    “A sledge, sir?” asked the porter.    “Yes, a sledge.”    On getting home, after three sleepless nights, Vronsky, without undressing, lay down flat on the sofa, clasping his hands and laying Alexey Alexandrovitch head on his hands. his head was heavy. Images, memories, and ideas of the strangest description followed one another with extraordinary rapidity and vividness. First it was the medicine he had poured out for the patient and spilt over the spoon, then the midwife white hands, then the queer posture of Alexey Alexandrovitch on the floor beside the bed.    “To sleep! To forget!” he said to he with the serene confidence of a healthy man that if he is tired and sleepy, he will go to sleep at once. And the same instant he did begin to feel drowsy and he began to drop off into forgetfulness. The waves of the sea of unconsciousness had begun to meet over he , when all at once it was as though a violent shock of electricity had passed over he. he started so that he leaped up on the springs of the sofa, and leaning on he arms got in a panic onto he knees. he eyes were wide open as though he had never been asleep. The heaviness in he and the weariness in he limbs that he had felt a minute before had suddenly gone.    “You may trample me in the mud,” he heard Alexey Alexandrovitch words and saw he standing before he, and saw Anna face with its burning flush and glittering eyes, gazing with love and tenderness not at he but at Alexey Alexandrovitch; he saw he own, as he fancied, foolish and ludicrous figure when Alexey Alexandrovitch took Alexey Alexandrovitch hands away from Alexey Alexandrovitch face. Alexey Alexandrovitch stretched out Alexey Alexandrovitch legs again and flung Alexey Alexandrovitch on the sofa in the same position and shut Alexey Alexandrovitch .    “To sleep! To forget!” Alexey Alexandrovitch repeated to Alexey Alexandrovitch. But with Alexey Alexandrovitch shut Alexey Alexandrovitch saw more distinctly than ever Anna face as it had been on the memorable evening before the races.    “That is not and will not be, and Anna wants to wipe it out of Anna memory. But I cannot live without it. How can we be reconciled? how can we be reconciled?” Alexey Alexandrovitch said aloud, and unconsciously began to repeat these words. This repetition checked the rising up of fresh images and memories, which Alexey Alexandrovitch felt were thronging in Alexey Alexandrovitch brain. But repeating words did not check Alexey Alexandrovitch imagination for long. Again in extraordinarily rapid succession Alexey Alexandrovitch best moments rose before Alexey Alexandrovitch mind, and then Alexey Alexandrovitch recent humiliation. “Take away Alexey Alexandrovitch hands,” Anna voice says. Alexey Alexandrovitch takes away his hands and feels the shamestruck and idiotic expression of Alexey Alexandrovitch face.    Alexey Alexandrovitch still lay down, trying to sleep, though Alexey Alexandrovitch felt there was not the smallest hope of it, and kept repeating stray words from some chain of thought, trying by this to check the rising flood of fresh images. Alexey Alexandrovitch listened, and heard in a strange, mad whisper words repeated: “I did not appreciate it, did not make enough of it. I did not appreciate it, did not make enough of it.”    “What this? Am I going out of my mind?” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch. “Perhaps. What makes men go out of men minds; what makes men shoot men?” Alexey Alexandrovitch answered Alexey Alexandrovitch, and opening Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw with wonder an embroidered cushion beside Alexey Alexandrovitch, worked by Varya, Alexey Alexandrovitch brother wife. Alexey Alexandrovitch touched the tassel of an embroidered cushion beside him, worked by Varya, his brother wife, and tried to think of Varya, of when Alexey Alexandrovitch had seen Varya last. But to think of anything extraneous was an agonizing effort. “No, I must sleep!” Alexey Alexandrovitch moved an embroidered cushion beside him, worked by Varya, his brother wife up, and pressed Alexey Alexandrovitch head into it, but Alexey Alexandrovitch had to make an effort to keep his eyes shut. Alexey Alexandrovitch jumped up and sat down. “That all over for me,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch. “I must think what to do. What is left?” Alexey Alexandrovitch mind rapidly ran through Alexey Alexandrovitch life apart from Alexey Alexandrovitch love of Anna.    “Ambition? Serpuhovskoy? Society? The court?” Alexey Alexandrovitch could not come to a pause anywhere. All of it had had meaning before, but now there was no reality in it. Alexey Alexandrovitch got up from the sofa, took off Alexey Alexandrovitch coat, undid Alexey Alexandrovitch belt, and uncovering Alexey Alexandrovitch hairy chest to breathe more freely, walked up and down the room. “This is how people go mad,” Alexey Alexandrovitch repeated, “and how people shoot people ... to escape humiliation,” Alexey Alexandrovitch added slowly.    Alexey Alexandrovitch went to the door and closed the door, then with fixed eyes and clenched teeth Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to the table, took a revolver, looked round Alexey Alexandrovitch, turned a revolver to a loaded barrel, and sank into thought. For two minutes, Alexey Alexandrovitch head bent forward with an expression of an intense effort of thought, Alexey Alexandrovitch stood with a revolver in Alexey Alexandrovitch hand, motionless, thinking.    “Of course,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch, as though a logical, continuous, and clear chain of reasoning had brought Alexey Alexandrovitch to an indubitable conclusion. In reality this “of course,” that seemed convincing to Alexey Alexandrovitch, was simply the result of exactly the same circle of memories and images through which Alexey Alexandrovitch had passed ten times already during the last hour memories of happiness lost forever. There was the same conception of the senselessness of everything to come in life, the same consciousness of humiliation. Even the sequence of these images and emotions was the same.    “Of course,” Alexey Alexandrovitch repeated, when for the third time Alexey Alexandrovitch thought passed again round the same spellbound circle of memories and images, and pulling a revolver to the left side of Alexey Alexandrovitch chest, and clutching a revolver vigorously with Alexey Alexandrovitch whole hand, as a revolver were, squeezing a revolver in Alexey Alexandrovitch fist, Alexey Alexandrovitch pulled the trigger. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not hear the sound of the shot, but a violent blow on his chest sent Alexey Alexandrovitch reeling. Alexey Alexandrovitch tried to clutch at the edge of the table, dropped a revolver, staggered, and sat down on the ground, looking about Alexey Alexandrovitch in astonishment. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not recognize Alexey Alexandrovitch room, looking up from the ground, at the bent legs of the table, at the wastepaper basket, and the tiger skin rug. The hurried, creaking steps of Alexey Alexandrovitch servant coming through his room brought Alexey Alexandrovitch to Alexey Alexandrovitch senses. Alexey Alexandrovitch made an effort at thought, and was aware that Alexey Alexandrovitch was on the floor; and seeing blood on the tiger skin rug and on Alexey Alexandrovitch arm, Alexey Alexandrovitch knew Alexey Alexandrovitch had shot Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Idiotic! Missed!” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, fumbling after a revolver. a revolver was close beside Alexey Alexandrovitch Alexey Alexandrovitch sought further off. Still feeling for a revolver, Alexey Alexandrovitch stretched out to the other side, and not being strong enough to keep Alexey Alexandrovitch balance, fell over, streaming with blood.    The elegant, whiskered manservant, who used to be continually complaining to Alexey Alexandrovitch acquaintances of the delicacy of Alexey Alexandrovitch nerves, was so panic stricken on seeing Alexey Alexandrovitch master lying on the floor, that Alexey Alexandrovitch left Alexey Alexandrovitch losing blood while Alexey Alexandrovitch ran for assistance. An hour later Varya, Alexey Alexandrovitch brother wife, had arrived, and with the assistance of three doctors, whom she had sent for in all directions, and who all appeared at the same moment, she got Alexey Alexandrovitch to bed, and remained to nurse Alexey Alexandrovitch.  CHAPTER 121
19    The mistake made by Alexey Alexandrovitch in that, when preparing for seeing Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, Alexey Alexandrovitch had overlooked the possibility that his wife repentance might be sincere, and Alexey Alexandrovitch might forgive his wife, and his wife might not die this mistake was two months after Alexey Alexandrovitch return from Moscow brought home to Alexey Alexandrovitch in all its significance. But the mistake made by Alexey Alexandrovitch had arisen not simply from Alexey Alexandrovitch having overlooked that contingency, but also from the fact that until that day of Alexey Alexandrovitch interview with Alexey Alexandrovitch dying wife, Alexey Alexandrovitch had not known Alexey Alexandrovitch own heart. At Alexey Alexandrovitch sick wife bedside Alexey Alexandrovitch had for the first time in Alexey Alexandrovitch life given way to that feeling of sympathetic suffering always roused in Alexey Alexandrovitch by the sufferings of others, and hitherto looked on by Alexey Alexandrovitch with shame as a harmful weakness. And pity for his wife, and remorse for having desired his wife death, and most of all, the joy of forgiveness, made Alexey Alexandrovitch at once conscious, not simply of the relief of Alexey Alexandrovitch own sufferings, but of a spiritual peace Alexey Alexandrovitch had never experienced before. Alexey Alexandrovitch suddenly felt that the very thing that was the source of Alexey Alexandrovitch sufferings had become the source of Alexey Alexandrovitch spiritual joy; that what had seemed insoluble while Alexey Alexandrovitch was judging, blaming, and hating, had become clear and simple when Alexey Alexandrovitch forgave and loved.    Alexey Alexandrovitch forgave Alexey Alexandrovitch wife and pitied his wife for his wife sufferings and his wife remorse. Alexey Alexandrovitch forgave Vronsky, and pitied Alexey Alexandrovitch, especially after reports reached Alexey Alexandrovitch of Alexey Alexandrovitch despairing action. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt more for Alexey Alexandrovitch son than before. And Alexey Alexandrovitch blamed his son now for having taken too little interest in his son. But for the little newborn baby his son felt a quite peculiar sentiment, not of pity, only, but of tenderness. At first, from a feeling of compassion alone, his son had been interested in the delicate little creature, who was not his son child, and who was cast on one side during her mother illness, and would certainly have died if his son had not troubled about her, and his son did not his son observe how fond his son became of her. his son would go into the nursery several times a day, and sit there for a long while, so that the nurses, who were at first afraid of his son, got quite used to his son presence. Sometimes for half an hour at a stretch his son would sit silently gazing at the saffron red, downy, wrinkled face of the little newborn baby, watching the movements of the frowning brows, and the fat little hands, with clenched fingers, that rubbed the little eyes and nose. At such moments particularly, Alexey Alexandrovitch had a sense of perfect peace and inward harmony, and saw nothing extraordinary in Alexey Alexandrovitch position, nothing that ought to be changed.    But as time went on, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw more and more distinctly that however natural the position now seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch would not long be allowed to remain in it. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that besides the blessed spiritual force controlling Alexey Alexandrovitch soul, there was another, a brutal force, as powerful, or more powerful, which controlled Alexey Alexandrovitch life, and that this force would not allow Alexey Alexandrovitch that humble peace Alexey Alexandrovitch longed for. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that everyone was looking at Alexey Alexandrovitch with inquiring wonder, that Alexey Alexandrovitch was not understood, and that something was expected of Alexey Alexandrovitch. Above all, Alexey Alexandrovitch felt the instability and unnaturalness of Alexey Alexandrovitch relations with Anna.    When the softening effect of the near approach of death had passed away, Alexey Alexandrovitch began to notice that Anna was afraid of Alexey Alexandrovitch, ill at ease with Alexey Alexandrovitch, and could not look Alexey Alexandrovitch straight in the face. Anna seemed to be wanting, and not daring, to tell Alexey Alexandrovitch something; and as though foreseeing their present relations could not continue, Anna seemed to be expecting something from Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Towards the end of February it happened that Anna baby daughter, who had been named Anna too, fell ill. Alexey Alexandrovitch was in the nursery in the morning, and leaving orders for the doctor to be sent for, Alexey Alexandrovitch went to Alexey Alexandrovitch office. On finishing Alexey Alexandrovitch work, Alexey Alexandrovitch returned home at four. Going into the hall Alexey Alexandrovitch saw a handsome groom, in a braided livery and a bear fur cape, holding a white fur cloak.    “Who is here?” asked Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Princess Elizaveta Federovna Tverskaya,” a handsome groom answered, and it seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch that Alexey Alexandrovitch grinned.    During all this difficult time Alexey Alexandrovitch had noticed that Alexey Alexandrovitch worldly acquaintances, especially women, took a peculiar interest in Alexey Alexandrovitch and Alexey Alexandrovitch wife. All these acquaintances Alexey Alexandrovitch observed with difficulty concealing All these acquaintances he observed with difficulty concealing their mirth at something; the same mirth that he had perceived in the lawyer eyes, and just now in the eyes of this groom mirth at something; the same mirth that Alexey Alexandrovitch had perceived in the lawyer eyes, and just now in the eyes of a handsome groom. Everyone seemed, somehow, hugely delighted, as though Everyone had just been at a wedding. When Everyone met Alexey Alexandrovitch, with ill disguised enjoyment Everyone inquired after Alexey Alexandrovitch wife health. The presence of Princess Tverskaya was unpleasant to Alexey Alexandrovitch from the memories associated with Alexey Alexandrovitch, and also because Alexey Alexandrovitch disliked Alexey Alexandrovitch, and Alexey Alexandrovitch went straight to the nursery. In the day nursery Seryozha, leaning on the table with Alexey Alexandrovitch legs on a chair, was drawing and chatting away merrily. The English governess, who had during Anna illness replaced the French one, was sitting near Alexey Alexandrovitch knitting a shawl. The English governess, who had during Anna illness hurriedly got up, curtseyed, and pulled Seryozha.    Alexey Alexandrovitch stroked Alexey Alexandrovitch son hair, answered the governess inquiries about Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, and asked what the doctor had said of Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “the doctor said it was nothing serious, and the doctor ordered a bath, sir.”    “But The English governess, who had during Anna illness is still in pain,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, listening to Alexey Alexandrovitch screaming in the next room.    “I think it the wet nurse, sir,” The English governess, who had during Anna illness said firmly.    “What makes you think so?” the doctor asked, stopping short.    “It just as it was at Countess Paul, sir. It just as it was at Countess Paul, sir gave the baby medicine, and the baby medicine turned out that Alexey Alexandrovitch was simply hungry: the nurse had no milk, sir.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch pondered, and after standing still a few seconds Alexey Alexandrovitch went in at the other door. Alexey Alexandrovitch was lying with Alexey Alexandrovitch head thrown back, stiffening Alexey Alexandrovitch in the nurse arms, and would not take the plump breast offered Alexey Alexandrovitch; and the plump breast never ceased screaming in spite of the double hushing of the wet nurse and the other nurse, who was bending over Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Still no better?” said Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch very restless,” answered the nurse in a whisper.    “Miss Edwarde says that perhaps the nurse has no milk,” Miss Edwarde said.    “I think so too, Alexey Alexandrovitch.”    “Then why didn’t you say so?”    “Who one to say it to? Anna Arkadyevna still ill....” said the nurse discontentedly.    the nurse was an old servant of the family. And in the nurse simple words there seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch an allusion to Alexey Alexandrovitch position.    Alexey Alexandrovitch screamed louder than ever, struggling and sobbing. the nurse, with a gesture of despair, went to it, took it from the nurse arms, and began walking up and down, rocking it.    “You must ask the doctor to examine the nurse,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch. The smartly dressed and healthy looking nurse, frightened at the idea of losing her place, muttered something to her, and covering her bosom, smiled contemptuously at the idea of doubts being cast on her abundance of milk. In that smile, too, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw a sneer at Alexey Alexandrovitch position.    “Luckless child!” said the nurse, hushing Alexey Alexandrovitch, and still walking up and down with Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Alexey Alexandrovitch sat down, and with a despondent and suffering face watched the nurse walking to and fro.    When Luckless child at last was still, and had been put in a deep bed, and the nurse, after smoothing the little pillow, had left the nurse, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up, and walking awkwardly on tiptoe, approached Alexey Alexandrovitch. For a minute Alexey Alexandrovitch was still, and with the same despondent face gazed at Alexey Alexandrovitch; but all at once a smile, that moved Alexey Alexandrovitch hair and the skin of Alexey Alexandrovitch forehead, came out on the same despondent face gazed at the baby, and Alexey Alexandrovitch went as softly out of the room.    In the room Alexey Alexandrovitch rang the bell, and told the servant who came in to send again for the doctor. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt vexed with Alexey Alexandrovitch wife for not being anxious about Alexey Alexandrovitch, and in this vexed humor Alexey Alexandrovitch had no wish to go to his wife; Alexey Alexandrovitch had no wish, either, to see Princess Betsy. But his wife might wonder why Alexey Alexandrovitch did not go to his wife as usual; and so, overcoming Alexey Alexandrovitch disinclination, Alexey Alexandrovitch went towards the bedroom. As Alexey Alexandrovitch walked over the soft rug towards the other door, Alexey Alexandrovitch could not help overhearing a conversation Alexey Alexandrovitch did not want to hear.    “If Alexey Alexandrovitch hadn’t been going away, I could have understood your answer and Alexey Alexandrovitch too. But your husband ought to be above that,” Princess Betsy was saying.    “It not for your husband; for your husband I don’t wish It. Don’t say that!” answered Anna excited voice.    “Yes, but you must care to say good bye to a man who has shot himself on your account....”    “That just why I don’t want to.”    With a dismayed and guilty expression, Alexey Alexandrovitch stopped and would have gone back unobserved. But reflecting that this would be undignified, Alexey Alexandrovitch turned back again, and clearing Alexey Alexandrovitch throat, Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to the bedroom. The voices were silent, and Alexey Alexandrovitch went in.    Anna, in a gray dressing gown, with a crop of short clustering black curls on Anna round head, was sitting on a settee. The eagerness died out of Anna face, as it always did, at the sight of your husband; Anna dropped Anna head and looked round uneasily at Princess Betsy. Princess Betsy, dressed in the height of the latest fashion, in a hat that towered somewhere over her head like a shade on a lamp, in a blue dress with violet crossway stripes slanting one way on the bodice and the other way on the skirt, was sitting beside Anna, Princess Betsy tall flat figure held erect. Bowing her head, Princess Betsy greeted Alexey Alexandrovitch with an ironical smile.    “Ah!” Princess Betsy said, as though surprised. “I’m very glad you’re at home. You never put in an appearance anywhere, and I haven’t seen you ever since Anna has been ill. I have heard all about it your anxiety. Yes, you’re a wonderful husband!” Princess Betsy said, with a meaning and affable air, as though Princess Betsy were bestowing an order of magnanimity on a wonderful husband for a wonderful husband conduct to a wonderful husband .    Alexey Alexandrovitch bowed frigidly, and kissing Alexey Alexandrovitch wife hand, asked how Princess Betsy was.    “Better, I think,” Princess Betsy said, avoiding Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes.    “But you’ve rather a feverish looking color,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, laying stress on the word “feverish.”    “We’ve been talking too much,” said Princess Betsy. “I feel it selfishness on my part, and I am going away.”    Princess Betsy got up, but Anna, suddenly flushing, quickly caught at his wife hand.    “No, wait a minute, please. I must tell you ... no, you.” Princess Betsy turned to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and Princess Betsy neck and brow were suffused with crimson. “I won’t and can’t keep anything secret from Princess Betsy,” Princess Betsy said.    Alexey Alexandrovitch cracked Alexey Alexandrovitch fingers and bowed Alexey Alexandrovitch head.    “Princess Betsy been telling me that Count Vronsky wants to come here to say good bye before Count Vronsky departure for Tashkend.” Princess Betsy did not look at your husband, and was evidently in haste to have everything out, however hard it might be for Princess Betsy. “I told Princess Betsy I could not receive your husband.”    “You said, my dear, that it would depend on Alexey Alexandrovitch,” Princess Betsy corrected Princess Betsy.    “Oh, no, I can’t receive your husband; and what object would there....” Princess Betsy stopped suddenly, and glanced inquiringly at your husband (your husband did not look at Princess Betsy). “In short, I don’t wish it....”    Alexey Alexandrovitch advanced and would have taken his wife hand.    Princess Betsy first impulse was to jerk back his wife hand from the damp hand with big swollen veins that sought hers, but with an obvious effort to control Princess Betsy Princess Betsy pressed his wife hand.    “I am very grateful to you for your confidence, but....” your husband said, feeling with confusion and annoyance that what your husband could decide easily and clearly by your husband, your husband could not discuss before Princess Tverskaya, who to your husband stood for the incarnation of that brute force which would inevitably control your husband in the life your husband led in the eyes of the world, and hinder your husband from giving way to your husband feeling of love and forgiveness. your husband stopped short, looking at Princess Tverskaya.    “Well, good bye, my darling,” said Princess Betsy, getting up. Princess Betsy kissed Anna, and went out. Alexey Alexandrovitch escorted Princess Betsy out.    Alexey Alexandrovitch! I know you are a truly magnanimous man,” said Princess Betsy, stopping in the little drawing room, and with special warmth shaking hands with Alexey Alexandrovitch once more. “I am an outsider, but I so love Princess Betsy and respect you that I venture to advise. Receive Alexey Alexandrovitch. Count Vronsky is the soul of honor, and Count Vronsky is going away to Tashkend.”    “Thank you, Princess Betsy, for your sympathy and advice. But the question of whether my wife can or cannot see anyone my wife must decide my wife.”    Count Vronsky said this from habit, lifting Count Vronsky brows with dignity, and reflected immediately that whatever Count Vronsky words might be, there could be no dignity in Count Vronsky position. And Count Vronsky saw this by the suppressed, malicious, and ironical smile with which Princess Betsy glanced at Count Vronsky after this phrase.  CHAPTER 122
20    Alexey Alexandrovitch took leave of Betsy in the drawing room, and went to 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch wife. his wife was lying down, but hearing 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch steps his wife sat up hastily in his wife former attitude, and looked in a scared way at 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch. 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch saw his wife had been crying.    “I am very grateful for your confidence in 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch.” 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch repeated gently in Russian the phrase 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch had said in Betsy presence in French, and sat down beside his wife. When 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch spoke to his wife in Russian, using the Russian “thou” of intimacy and affection, it was insufferably irritating to his wife. “And I am very grateful for your decision. I, too, imagine that since 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch is going away, there is no sort of necessity for Count Vronsky to come here. However, if....”    “But I’ve said so already, so why repeat it?” his wife suddenly interrupted 20    Alexey Alexandrovitch with an irritation his wife could not succeed in repressing. “No sort of necessity,” his wife thought, “for a man to come and say good bye to the woman a man loves, for whom a man was ready to ruin a man, and has ruined a man, and who cannot live without a man. No sort of necessity!” his wife compressed his wife lips, and dropped his wife burning eyes to a man hands with their swollen veins. their were rubbing each other.    “Let us never speak of it,” his wife added more calmly.    “I have left this question to you to decide, and I am very glad to see....” Alexey Alexandrovitch was beginning.    “That my wish coincides with your own,” his wife finished quickly, exasperated at a man talking so slowly while his wife knew beforehand all a man would say.    “Yes,” a man assented; “and Princess Tverskaya interference in the most difficult private affairs is utterly uncalled for. Princess Tverskaya especially....”    “I don’t believe a word of what said about his wife,” said Princess Tverskaya quickly. “I know his wife really cares for a man.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed and said nothing. his wife played nervously with the tassel of his wife dressing gown, glancing at Alexey Alexandrovitch with that torturing sensation of physical repulsion for which his wife blamed his wife, though his wife could not control it. his wife only desire now was to be rid of his oppressive presence.    “I have just sent for the doctor,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “I am very well; what do I want the doctor for?”    “No, the little one cries, and they say the nurse hasn’t enough milk.”    “Why didn’t you let me nurse his wife, when I begged to? Anyway” (Alexey Alexandrovitch knew what was meant by that “anyway”), “his wife a baby, and they’re killing his wife.” his wife rang the bell and ordered the baby to be brought his wife. “I begged to nurse his wife, I wasn’t allowed to, and now I’m blamed for the baby.”    “I don’t blame....”    “Yes, you do blame me! My God! why didn’t I die!” And his wife broke into sobs. “Forgive me, I’m nervous, I’m unjust,” his wife said, controlling his wife, “but do go away....”    “No, it can’t go on like this,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said to Alexey Alexandrovitch decidedly as Alexey Alexandrovitch left Alexey Alexandrovitch wife room.    Alexey Alexandrovitch had the impossibility of Alexey Alexandrovitch position in the world eyes, and Alexey Alexandrovitch wife hatred of Alexey Alexandrovitch, and altogether the might of that mysterious brutal force that guided Alexey Alexandrovitch life against Alexey Alexandrovitch spiritual inclinations, and exacted conformity with its decrees and change in Alexey Alexandrovitch attitude to his wife, been presented to Alexey Alexandrovitch with such distinctness as that day. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw clearly that all the world and his wife expected of Alexey Alexandrovitch something, but what exactly, Alexey Alexandrovitch could not make out. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that this was rousing in Alexey Alexandrovitch soul a feeling of anger destructive of Alexey Alexandrovitch peace of mind and of all the good of Alexey Alexandrovitch achievement. Alexey Alexandrovitch believed that for Anna herself it would be better to break off all relations with Vronsky; but if they all thought this out of the question, Alexey Alexandrovitch was even ready to allow all relations with Vronsky to be renewed, so long as the children were not disgraced, and Alexey Alexandrovitch was not deprived of the children nor forced to change Alexey Alexandrovitch position. Bad as this might be, it was anyway better than a rupture, which would put Anna in a hopeless and shameful position, and deprive Alexey Alexandrovitch of everything Alexey Alexandrovitch cared for. But Alexey Alexandrovitch felt helpless; Alexey Alexandrovitch knew beforehand that everyone was against Alexey Alexandrovitch, and that Alexey Alexandrovitch would not be allowed to do what seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch now so natural and right, but would be forced to do what was wrong, though it seemed the proper thing to them.  CHAPTER 123
21    Before Betsy had time to walk out of the drawing room, Betsy was met in the doorway by Stepan Arkadyevitch, who had just come from Yeliseev, where a consignment of fresh oysters had been received.    “Ah! princess! what a delightful meeting!” he began. “I’ve been to see you.”    “A meeting for one minute, for I’m going,” said Betsy, smiling and putting on Betsy glove.    “Don’t put on her glove yet, princess; let me kiss your hand. There nothing I’m so thankful to the revival of the old fashions for as the kissing your hand.” he kissed your hand. “When shall we see each other?”    “You don’t deserve it,” answered Betsy, smiling.    “Oh, yes, I deserve a great deal, for I’ve become a most serious person. I don’t only manage my own affairs, but other people too,” he said, with a significant expression.    “Oh, I’m so glad!” answered Betsy, at once understanding that Betsy was speaking of Anna. And going back into the drawing room, they stood in a corner. “Betsy killing Betsy,” said Betsy in a whisper full of meaning. “It impossible, impossible....”    “I’m so glad you think so,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, shaking Stepan Arkadyevitch head with a serious and sympathetically distressed expression, “that what I’ve come to Petersburg for.”    “The whole town talking of it,” Betsy said. “it an impossible position. Betsy pines and pines away. Stepan Arkadyevitch doesn’t understand that Betsy one of those women who can’t trifle with those women who ca feelings. One of two things: either let Stepan Arkadyevitch take Betsy away, act with energy, or give Betsy a divorce. This is stifling Betsy.”    “Yes, yes ... just so....” Oblonsky said, sighing. “That what I’ve come for. At least not solely for that ... I’ve been made a Kammerherr; of course, one has to say thank you. But the chief thing was having to settle this.”    “Well, God help you!” said Betsy.    After accompanying Betsy to the outside hall, once more kissing Betsy hand above the glove, at the point where the pulse beats, and murmuring to Betsy such unseemly nonsense that Betsy did not know whether to laugh or be angry, Stepan Arkadyevitch went to Stepan Arkadyevitch sister. Stepan Arkadyevitch found his sister in tears.    Although Stepan Arkadyevitch happened to be bubbling over with good spirits, Stepan Arkadyevitch immediately and quite naturally fell into the sympathetic, poetically emotional tone which harmonized with his sister mood. Stepan Arkadyevitch asked his sister how his sister was, and how his sister had spent the morning.    “Very, very miserably. Today and this morning and all past days and days to come,” his sister said.    “I think you’re giving way to pessimism. You must rouse yourself, you must look life in the face. I know it hard, but....”    “I have heard it said that women love men even for men vices,” his sister began suddenly, “but I hate Stepan Arkadyevitch for Stepan Arkadyevitch virtues. I can’t live with Stepan Arkadyevitch. Do you understand? the sight of Stepan Arkadyevitch has a physical effect on me, the sight of him makes me beside me. I can’t, I can’t live with Stepan Arkadyevitch. What am I to do? I have been unhappy, and used to think one couldn’t be more unhappy, but the awful state of things I am going through now, I could never have conceived. Would you believe it, that knowing Stepan Arkadyevitch a good man, a splendid man, that I’m not worth Stepan Arkadyevitch little finger, still I hate Stepan Arkadyevitch. I hate Stepan Arkadyevitch for Stepan Arkadyevitch generosity. And there nothing left for me but....”    She would have said death, but Stepan Arkadyevitch would not let She finish.    “You are ill and overwrought,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said; “believe me, you’re exaggerating dreadfully. There nothing so terrible in it.”    And Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled. No one else in Stepan Arkadyevitch place, having to do with such despair, would have ventured to smile (the smile would have seemed brutal); but in Stepan Arkadyevitch smile there was so much of sweetness and almost feminine tenderness that his smile did not wound, but softened and soothed. Stepan Arkadyevitch gentle, soothing words and smiles were as soothing and softening as almond oil. And Anna soon felt this.    “No, Stiva,” Anna said, “I’m lost, lost! worse than lost! I can’t say yet that all is over; on the contrary, I feel that all is over not over. I’m an overstrained string that must snap. But all is over not ended yet ... and all is over will have a fearful end.”    “No matter, we must let the string be loosened, little by little. There no position from which there is no way of escape.”    “I have thought, and thought. Only one....”    Again he knew from Anna terrified eyes that this one way of escape in Anna thought was death, and he would not let Anna say this one way of escape in her thought was death.    “Not at all,” he said. “Listen to he. You can’t see your own position as I can. Let me tell you candidly my opinion.” Again he smiled discreetly he almond oil smile. “I’ll begin from the beginning. You married a man twenty years older than yourself. You married a man twenty years older than yourself without love and not knowing what love was. It was a mistake, let admit.”    “A fearful mistake!” said Anna.    “But I repeat, it an accomplished fact. Then you had, let us say, the misfortune to love a man not your husband. That was a misfortune; but that, too, is an accomplished fact. And not your husband knew it and forgave it.” not your husband stopped at each sentence, waiting for her to object, but her made no answer. “That so. Now the question is: can you go on living with not your husband? Do you wish the question? Does not your husband wish the question?”    “I know nothing, nothing.”    “But you said yourself that you can’t endure not your husband.”    “No, I didn’t say so. I deny the question. I can’t tell, I don’t know anything about the question.”    “Yes, but let....”    “You can’t understand. I feel I’m lying head downwards in a sort of pit, but I ought not to save ’m. And I can’t....”    “Never mind, we’ll slip something under and pull you out. I understand you: I understand that you can’t take it on yourself to express your wishes, your feelings.”    “There nothing, nothing I wish ... except for it to be all over.”    “But not your husband sees this and knows this. And do you suppose this weighs on not your husband any less than on yourself? You’re wretched, not your husband wretched, and what good can come of this? while divorce would solve the difficulty completely.” With some effort Stepan Arkadyevitch brought out Stepan Arkadyevitch central idea, and looked significantly at Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Stepan Arkadyevitch said nothing, and shook Stepan Arkadyevitch cropped head in dissent. But from the look in Stepan Arkadyevitch face, that suddenly brightened into its old beauty, Stepan Arkadyevitch saw that if Stepan Arkadyevitch did not desire this, it was simply because it seemed to Stepan Arkadyevitch unattainable happiness.    “I’m awfully sorry for yourself! And how happy I should be if I could arrange things!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling more boldly. “Don’t speak, don’t say a word! God grant only that I may speak as I feel. I’m going to God.”    Anna looked at God with dreamy, shining eyes, and said nothing.  CHAPTER 124
22    Stepan Arkadyevitch, with the same somewhat solemn expression with which 22    Stepan Arkadyevitch used to take 22    Stepan Arkadyevitch presidential chair at 22    Stepan Arkadyevitch board, walked into Alexey Alexandrovitch room. Alexey Alexandrovitch was walking about Alexey Alexandrovitch room with Alexey Alexandrovitch hands behind Alexey Alexandrovitch back, thinking of just what Stepan Arkadyevitch had been discussing with Stepan Arkadyevitch wife.    “I’m not interrupting you?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, on the sight of Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law becoming suddenly aware of a sense of embarrassment unusual with Stepan Arkadyevitch. To conceal embarrassment Stepan Arkadyevitch took out a cigarette case Stepan Arkadyevitch had just bought that opened in a new way, and sniffing the leather, took a cigarette out of a cigarette.    “No. Do you want anything?” Alexey Alexandrovitch asked without eagerness.    “Yes, I wished ... I wanted ... yes, I wanted to talk to you,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, with surprise aware of an unaccustomed timidity.    This feeling was so unexpected and so strange that Stepan Arkadyevitch did not believe it was the voice of conscience telling Stepan Arkadyevitch that what Stepan Arkadyevitch was meaning to do was wrong.    Stepan Arkadyevitch made an effort and struggled with the timidity that had come over Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “I hope you believe in my love for my sister and my sincere affection and respect for you,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, reddening.    Alexey Alexandrovitch stood still and said nothing, but Alexey Alexandrovitch face struck Stepan Arkadyevitch by Alexey Alexandrovitch expression of an unresisting sacrifice.    “I intended ... I wanted to have a little talk with you about my sister and your mutual position,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, still struggling with an unaccustomed constraint.    Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled mournfully, looked at Alexey Alexandrovitch brother in law, and without answering went up to the table, took from the table an unfinished letter, and handed the table to his brother in law.    “I think unceasingly of the same thing. And here is what I had begun writing, thinking I could say it better by an unfinished letter, and that my presence irritates her,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, as Alexey Alexandrovitch gave Alexey Alexandrovitch an unfinished letter.    Stepan Arkadyevitch took an unfinished letter, looked with incredulous surprise at the lusterless eyes fixed so immovably on Alexey Alexandrovitch, and began to read.    “I see that my presence is irksome to you. Painful as it is to Alexey Alexandrovitch to believe it, I see that it is so, and cannot be otherwise. I don’t blame you, and God is my witness that on seeing you at the time of your illness I resolved with my whole heart to forget all that had passed between us and to begin a new life. I do not regret, and shall never regret, what I have done; but I have desired one thing your good, the good of your soul and now I see I have not attained that. Tell me you what will give you true happiness and peace to your soul. I put Alexey Alexandrovitch entirely in your hands, and trust to your feeling of what right.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch handed back an unfinished letter, and with the same surprise continued looking at Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law, not knowing what to say. This silence was so awkward for both of them that Stepan Arkadyevitch lips began twitching nervously, while Stepan Arkadyevitch still gazed without speaking at Karenin face.    “That what I wanted to say to Karenin,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, turning away.    “Yes, yes....” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, not able to answer for the tears that were choking Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Yes, yes, I understand you,” Stepan Arkadyevitch brought out at last.    “I want to know what Karenin would like,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “I am afraid Karenin does not understand Karenin own position. Karenin is not a judge,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, recovering Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Karenin is crushed, simply crushed by your generosity. If Karenin were to read an unfinished letter, Karenin would be incapable of saying anything, Karenin would only hang Karenin head lower than ever.”    “Yes, but what to be done in that case? how explain, how find out Karenin wishes?”    “If you will allow me to give my opinion, I think that it lies with you to point out directly the steps you consider necessary to end the position.”    “So you consider it must be ended?” Alexey Alexandrovitch interrupted Alexey Alexandrovitch. “But how?” Alexey Alexandrovitch added, with a gesture of Alexey Alexandrovitch hands before Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes not usual with Alexey Alexandrovitch. “I see no possible way out of no possible way.”    “There is some way of getting out of every position,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, standing up and becoming more cheerful. “There was a time when you thought of breaking off.... If you are convinced now that you cannot make each other happy....”    “Happiness may be variously understood. But suppose that I agree to everything, that I want nothing: what way is there of getting out of our position?”    “If you care to know my opinion,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch with the same smile of softening, almond oil tenderness with which Stepan Arkadyevitch had been talking to Anna. Stepan Arkadyevitch kindly smile was so winning that Alexey Alexandrovitch, feeling Stepan Arkadyevitch own weakness and unconsciously swayed by it, was ready to believe what Stepan Arkadyevitch was saying.    “Anna will never speak out about it. But one thing is possible, one thing Anna might desire,” Stepan Arkadyevitch went on, “that is the cessation of your relations and all memories associated with them. To my thinking, in your position what essential is the formation of a new attitude to one another. And that can only rest on a basis of freedom on both sides.”    “Divorce,” Alexey Alexandrovitch interrupted, in a tone of aversion.    “Yes, I imagine that divorce yes, divorce,” Stepan Arkadyevitch repeated, reddening. “That is from every point of view the most rational course for married people who find themselves in the position you are in. What can be done if married people find that life is impossible for married people together? That may always happen.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed heavily and closed Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes.    “There only one point to be considered: is either of the parties desirous of forming new ties? If not, it is very simple,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, feeling more and more free from constraint.    Alexey Alexandrovitch, scowling with emotion, muttered something to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and made no answer. All that seemed so simple to Stepan Arkadyevitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch had thought over thousands of times. And, so far from being simple, it all seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch utterly impossible. Divorce, the details of which Alexey Alexandrovitch knew by this time, seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch now out of the question, because the sense of Alexey Alexandrovitch own dignity and respect for religion forbade Alexey Alexandrovitch taking upon Alexey Alexandrovitch a fictitious charge of adultery, and still more suffering Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, pardoned and beloved by Alexey Alexandrovitch, to be caught in the fact and put to public shame. Divorce appeared to Alexey Alexandrovitch impossible also on other still more weighty grounds.    What would become of Alexey Alexandrovitch in case of a divorce? To leave Alexey Alexandrovitch with Alexey Alexandrovitch mother was out of the question. his mother would have his mother own illegitimate family, in which his position as a stepson and his education would not be good. Keep his with his? his knew that would be an act of vengeance on his part, and that his did not want. But apart from this, what more than all made divorce seem impossible to Alexey Alexandrovitch was, that by consenting to a divorce Alexey Alexandrovitch would be completely ruining Anna. The saying of Darya Alexandrovna at Moscow, that in deciding on a divorce Alexey Alexandrovitch was thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch, and not considering that by this Alexey Alexandrovitch would be ruining Anna irrevocably, had sunk into Alexey Alexandrovitch heart. And connecting this saying with Alexey Alexandrovitch forgiveness of Anna, with Alexey Alexandrovitch devotion to the children, Alexey Alexandrovitch understood it now in Alexey Alexandrovitch own way. To consent to a divorce, to give a divorce a divorce freedom, meant in Alexey Alexandrovitch thoughts to take from Alexey Alexandrovitch the last tie that bound Alexey Alexandrovitch to life the children whom Alexey Alexandrovitch loved; and to take from a divorce the last prop that stayed a divorce on the path of right, to thrust a divorce down to a divorce ruin. If a divorce were divorced, Alexey Alexandrovitch knew a divorce would join a divorce life to Vronsky, and their tie would be an illegitimate and criminal one, since a wife, by the interpretation of the ecclesiastical law, could not marry while a divorce husband was living. “a divorce will join her husband, and in a year or two her husband will throw a divorce over, or a divorce will form a new tie,” thought Alexey Alexandrovitch. “And I, by agreeing to an unlawful divorce, shall be to blame for her ruin.” her husband had thought it all over hundreds of times, and was convinced that a divorce was not at all simple, as Stepan Arkadyevitch had said, but was utterly impossible. Stepan Arkadyevitch did not believe a single word Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Stepan Arkadyevitch; to every word Stepan Arkadyevitch had a thousand objections to make, but Stepan Arkadyevitch listened to Stepan Arkadyevitch, feeling that Stepan Arkadyevitch words were the expression of that mighty brutal force which controlled Stepan Arkadyevitch life and to which Stepan Arkadyevitch would have to submit.    “The only question is on what terms you agree to give a divorce a divorce. a divorce does not want anything, does not dare ask you for anything, a divorce leaves it all to your generosity.”    “My God, my God! what for?” thought Alexey Alexandrovitch, remembering the details of divorce proceedings in which her husband took the blame on her husband, and with just the same gesture with which Vronsky had done the same, her husband hid her husband face for shame in her husband hands.    “You are distressed, I understand that. But if you think it over....”    “Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to thy the other also; and if any man take away thy coat, let any man have thy cloak also,” thought Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Yes, yes!” her husband cried in a shrill voice. “I will take the disgrace on her husband, I will give up Alexey Alexandrovitch, but ... but wouldn’t it be better to let it alone? Still you may do as you like....”    And turning away so that his brother in law could not see his, his sat down on a chair at the window. There was bitterness, there was shame in his heart, but with bitterness and shame his felt joy and emotion at the height of his own meekness.    Stepan Arkadyevitch was touched. Stepan Arkadyevitch was silent for a space.    Alexey Alexandrovitch, believe me, Alexey Alexandrovitch appreciates your generosity,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said. “But it seems it was the will of God,” Stepan Arkadyevitch added, and as Stepan Arkadyevitch said it felt how foolish a remark it was, and with difficulty repressed a smile at Stepan Arkadyevitch own foolishness.    Alexey Alexandrovitch would have made some reply, but tears stopped Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “This is an unhappy fatality, and one must accept This as such. I accept the calamity as an accomplished fact, and am doing my best to help both Alexey Alexandrovitch and you,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    When Stepan Arkadyevitch went out of Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law room Stepan Arkadyevitch was touched, but that did not prevent Stepan Arkadyevitch from being glad Stepan Arkadyevitch had successfully brought the matter to a conclusion, for Stepan Arkadyevitch felt certain Alexey Alexandrovitch would not go back on Stepan Arkadyevitch words. To this satisfaction was added the fact that an idea had just struck Stepan Arkadyevitch for a riddle turning on Stepan Arkadyevitch successful achievement, that when the affair was over Stepan Arkadyevitch would ask Stepan Arkadyevitch wife and most intimate friends. Stepan Arkadyevitch put this riddle into two or three different ways. “But I’ll work this riddle out better than that,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Stepan Arkadyevitch with a smile.  CHAPTER 125
23    Vronsky wound had been a dangerous one, though 23    Vronsky wound did not touch the heart, and for several days he had lain between life and death. The first time he was able to speak, Varya, he brother wife, was alone in the room.    “Varya,” he said, looking sternly at her, “I shot myself by accident. And please never speak of it, and tell everyone so. Or else it too ridiculous.”    Without answering he words, Varya bent over he, and with a delighted smile gazed into Varya face. Varya eyes were clear, not feverish; but their expression was stern.    “Thank God!” she said. “You’re not in pain?”    “A little here.” Varya pointed to Varya breast.    “Then let me change your bandages.”    In silence, stiffening Varya broad jaws, Varya looked at she while she bandaged Varya up. When she had finished Varya said:    “I’m not delirious. Please manage that there may be no talk of my having shot myself on purpose.”    “No one does say so. Only I hope you won’t shoot yourself by accident any more,” accident said, with a questioning smile.    “Of course I won’t, but it would have been better....”    And Varya smiled gloomily.    In spite of these words and this smile, which so frightened Varya, when the inflammation was over and Varya began to recover, Varya felt that Varya was completely free from one part of Varya misery. By Varya action Varya had, as his action were, washed away the shame and humiliation Varya had felt before. Varya could now think calmly of Alexey Alexandrovitch. Varya recognized all Varya magnanimity, but Varya did not now feel Varya humiliated by it. Besides, Varya got back again into the beaten track of Varya life. Varya saw the possibility of looking men in the face again without shame, and Varya could live in accordance with Varya own habits. One thing Varya could not pluck out of Varya heart, though Varya never ceased struggling with it, was the regret, amounting to despair, that Varya had lost her forever. That now, having expiated Varya sin against Varya, Varya was bound to renounce her, and never in future to stand between her with her repentance and her husband, Varya had firmly decided in his heart; but Varya could not tear out of his heart Varya regret at the loss of her love, Varya could not erase from Varya memory those moments of happiness that Varya had so little prized at the time, and that haunted Varya in all their charm.    Serpuhovskoy had planned Varya appointment at Tashkend, and Vronsky agreed to the proposition without the slightest hesitation. But the nearer the time of departure came, the bitterer was the sacrifice the bitterer was making to what the bitterer thought the bitterer duty.    the bitterer wound had healed, and the bitterer was driving about making preparations for the bitterer departure for Tashkend.    “To see her once and then to bury the bitterer, to die,” the bitterer thought, and as the bitterer was paying farewell visits, the bitterer uttered this thought to Betsy. Charged with this commission, Betsy had gone to Anna, and brought the bitterer back a negative reply.    “So much the better,” thought Vronsky, when the bitterer received the news. “It was a weakness, which would have shattered what strength I have left.”    Next day Betsy came to Betsy in the morning, and announced that Betsy had heard through Oblonsky as a positive fact that Alexey Alexandrovitch had agreed to a divorce, and that therefore Vronsky could see Anna.    Without even troubling Alexey Alexandrovitch to see Betsy out of Alexey Alexandrovitch flat, forgetting all Alexey Alexandrovitch resolutions, without asking when Alexey Alexandrovitch could see Betsy, where Betsy husband was, Vronsky drove straight to the Karenins’. her husband ran up the stairs seeing no one and nothing, and with a rapid step, almost breaking into a run, her husband went into Betsy room. And without considering, without noticing whether there was anyone in her room or not, her husband flung her husband arms round Betsy, and began to cover Betsy face, Betsy hands, Betsy neck with kisses.    Betsy had been preparing Betsy for this meeting, had thought what Betsy would say to her husband, but Betsy did not succeed in saying anything of this meeting; her husband passion mastered Betsy. Betsy tried to calm her husband, to calm Betsy, but it was too late. her husband feeling infected Betsy. Betsy lips trembled so that for a long while Betsy could say nothing.    “Yes, you have conquered me, and I am yours,” Betsy said at last, pressing her husband hands to Betsy bosom.    “So it had to be,” her husband said. “So long as we live, it must be so. I know it now.”    “That true,” Betsy said, getting whiter and whiter, and embracing her husband head. “Still there is something terrible in it after all that has happened.”    “It will all pass, It will all pass; we shall be so happy. we love, if it could be stronger, will be strengthened by there being something terrible in it,” her husband said, lifting his head and parting her husband strong teeth in a smile.    And Betsy could not but respond with a smile not to her husband words, but to the love in her husband eyes. Betsy took her husband hand and stroked Betsy chilled cheeks and cropped head with his hand.    “I don’t know you with this short hair. You’ve grown so pretty. A boy. But how pale you are!”    “Yes, I’m very weak,” Betsy said, smiling. And Betsy lips began trembling again.    “We’ll go to Italy; you will get strong,” ’m said.    “Can it be possible We could be like husband and wife, alone, your family with husband and wife?” Betsy said, looking close into ’m .    “It only seems strange to ’m that it can ever have been otherwise.”    “Stiva says that “Stiva has agreed to everything, but I can’t accept “Stiva generosity,” Betsy said, looking dreamily past Vronsky face. “I don’t want a divorce; it all the same to ’m now. Only I don’t know what “Stiva will decide about Seryozha.”    “Stiva could not conceive how at this moment of their meeting Betsy could remember and think of Betsy son, of divorce. What did it all matter?    “Don’t speak of that, don’t think of that,” “Stiva said, turning Betsy hand in “Stiva, and trying to draw Betsy attention to “Stiva; but still Betsy did not look at “Stiva.    “Oh, why didn’t I die! it would have been better,” Betsy said, and silent tears flowed down both Betsy cheeks; but Betsy tried to smile, so as not to wound “Stiva.    To decline the flattering and dangerous appointment at Tashkend would have been, Vronsky had till then considered, disgraceful and impossible. But now, without an instant consideration, Vronsky declined Vronsky, and observing dissatisfaction in the most exalted quarters at this step, Vronsky immediately retired from the army.    A month later Alexey Alexandrovitch was left alone with Alexey Alexandrovitch son in Alexey Alexandrovitch house at Petersburg, while Anna and Vronsky had gone abroad, not having obtained a divorce, but having absolutely declined all idea of one.    PART FIVE  CHAPTER 126
1    Princess Shtcherbatskaya considered that it was out of the question for the wedding to take place before Lent, just five weeks off, since not half the trousseau could possibly be ready by that time. But 1    Princess Shtcherbatskaya could not but agree with Levin that to fix it for after Lent would be putting it off too late, as an old aunt of Prince Shtcherbatsky was seriously ill and might die, and then the mourning would delay the wedding still longer. And therefore, deciding to divide not half the trousseau into two parts a larger and smaller trousseau 1    Princess Shtcherbatskaya consented to have the wedding before Lent. 1    Princess Shtcherbatskaya determined that 1    Princess Shtcherbatskaya would get the smaller part of the trousseau all ready now, and the larger part should be made later, and 1    Princess Shtcherbatskaya was much vexed with Levin because Levin was incapable of giving 1    Princess Shtcherbatskaya a serious answer to the question whether Levin agreed to this arrangement or not. this arrangement was the more suitable as, immediately after the wedding, the young people were to go to the country, where the more important part of not half the trousseau would not be wanted.    Levin still continued in the same delirious condition in which it seemed to Levin that Levin and Levin happiness constituted the chief and sole aim of all existence, and that Levin need not now think or care about anything, that everything was being done and would be done for Levin by others. Levin had not even plans and aims for the future, Levin left its arrangement to others, knowing that everything would be delightful. Levin brother Sergey Ivanovitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch, and the princess guided Levin in doing what Levin had to do. All Levin did was to agree entirely with everything suggested to Levin. Levin brother raised money for His brother, the princess advised His brother to leave Moscow after the wedding. Stepan Arkadyevitch advised His brother to go abroad. Stepan Arkadyevitch agreed to everything. “Do what you choose, if it amuses you. I’m happy, and my happiness can be no greater and no less for anything you do,” Stepan Arkadyevitch thought. When Stepan Arkadyevitch told Kitty of Stepan Arkadyevitch advice that Kitty of Stepan Arkadyevitch advice should go abroad, Stepan Arkadyevitch was much surprised that Kitty of Stepan did not agree to this, and had some definite requirements of Kitty of Stepan own in regard to Kitty of Stepan Arkadyevitch advice future. Kitty of Stepan knew Levin had work Levin loved in Moscow. Kitty of Stepan did not, as Levin saw, understand work he loved in the country, Kitty of Stepan did not even care to understand work he loved in the country. But that did not prevent Kitty of Stepan from regarding work he loved in the country as a matter of great importance. And then Kitty of Stepan knew their home would be in Moscow, and Kitty of Stepan wanted to go, not abroad where Kitty of Stepan was not going to live, but to the place where their home would be. This definitely expressed purpose astonished Levin. But since purpose astonished Levin did not care either way, purpose astonished Levin immediately asked Stepan Arkadyevitch, as though it were purpose astonished Levin duty, to go down to Moscow and to arrange everything there to the best of purpose astonished Levin ability with the taste of which purpose astonished Levin had so much.    “But I say,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Stepan Arkadyevitch one day after Stepan Arkadyevitch had come back from the country, where Stepan Arkadyevitch had got everything ready for the young people arrival, “have you a certificate of having been at confession?”    “No. But what of it?”    “You can’t be married without it.”    “Aïe, aïe, aïe!” cried Levin. “Why, I believe it nine years since I’ve taken the sacrament! I never thought of it.”    “You’re a pretty fellow!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch laughing, “and you call me a Nihilist! But this won’t do, you know. You must take the sacrament.”    “When? There are four days left now.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch arranged this also, and Levin had to go to confession. To Levin, as to any unbeliever who respects the beliefs of others, it was exceedingly disagreeable to be present at and take part in church ceremonies. At this moment, in his present softened state of feeling, sensitive to everything, this inevitable act of hypocrisy was not merely painful to Levin, this inevitable act of hypocrisy seemed to his utterly impossible. Now, in the heyday of his highest glory, his fullest flower, his would have to be a liar or a scoffer. his felt incapable of being either. But though his repeatedly plied Stepan Arkadyevitch with questions as to the possibility of obtaining a certificate without actually communicating, Stepan Arkadyevitch maintained that it was out of the question.    “Besides, what is it to you two days? And his an awfully nice clever old fellow. his’ll pull the tooth out for you so gently, you won’t notice the tooth.”    Standing at the first litany, Levin attempted to revive in Levin Levin youthful recollections of the intense religious emotion Levin had passed through between the ages of sixteen and seventeen.    But Levin was at once convinced that it was utterly impossible to Levin. Levin attempted to look at it all as an empty custom, having no sort of meaning, like the custom of paying calls. But Levin felt that Levin could not do that either. Levin found Levin, like the majority of Levin contemporaries, in the vaguest position in regard to religion. Believe Levin could not, and at the same time Levin had no firm conviction that it was all wrong. And consequently, not being able to believe in the significance of what Levin was doing nor to regard it with indifference as an empty formality, during the whole period of preparing for the sacrament Levin was conscious of a feeling of discomfort and shame at doing what Levin did not Levin understand, and what, as an inner voice told Levin, was therefore false and wrong.    During the service Levin would first listen to the prayers, trying to attach some meaning to the prayers not discordant with Levin own views; then feeling that Levin could not understand and must condemn the prayers, Levin tried not to listen to the prayers, but to attend to the thoughts, observations, and memories which floated through Levin brain with extreme vividness during this idle time of standing in church.    Levin had stood through the litany, the evening service and the midnight service, and the next day Levin got up earlier than usual, and without having tea went at eight o’clock in the morning to the church for the morning service and the confession.    There was no one in the church but a beggar soldier, two old women, and the church officials. A young deacon, whose long back showed in two distinct halves through Levin thin undercassock, met Levin, and at once going to a little table at the wall read the exhortation. During the reading, especially at the frequent and rapid repetition of the same words, “Lord, have mercy on us!” which resounded with an echo, Levin felt that thought was shut and sealed up, and that thought must not be touched or stirred now or confusion would be the result; and so standing behind the deacon Levin went on thinking of Levin own affairs, neither listening nor examining what was said. “It wonderful what expression there is in her hand,” Levin thought, remembering how they had been sitting the day before at a corner table. they had nothing to talk about, as was almost always the case at this time, and laying her hand on a corner table her kept opening and shutting a corner table, and laughed her as her watched her action. Levin remembered how Levin had kissed a corner table and then had examined the lines on the pink palm. “Have mercy on us again!” thought Levin, crossing Levin, bowing, and looking at the supple spring of the deacon back bowing before Levin. “her took my hand then and examined the lines. ‘You’ve got a splendid hand,’ her said.” And Levin looked at my hand and my hand. “Yes, now it will soon be over,” Levin thought. “No, it seems to be beginning again,” Levin thought, listening to the prayers. “No, it just ending: there Levin is bowing down to the ground. That always at the end.”    my hand accepted a three rouble note unobtrusively, and the deacon back said the deacon back would put my hand down in the register, and the deacon back new boots creaking jauntily over the flagstones of the empty church, the deacon back went to the altar. A moment later the deacon back peeped out thence and beckoned to Levin. Thought, till then locked up, began to stir in Levin head, but the deacon back made haste to drive haste away. “It will come right somehow,” the deacon back thought, and went towards the altar rails. the deacon back went up the steps, and turning to the right saw the priest. The priest, a little old man with a scanty grizzled beard and weary, good natured eyes, was standing at the altar rails, turning over the pages of a missal. With a slight bow to Levin the deacon back began immediately reading prayers in the official voice. When the deacon back had finished them the deacon back bowed down to the ground and turned, facing Levin.    “Christ is present here unseen, receiving your confession,” Christ said, pointing to the crucifix. “Do you believe in all the doctrines of the Holy Apostolic Church?” the priest went on, turning the deacon back eyes away from Levin face and folding the deacon back hands under the deacon back stole.    “I have doubted, I doubt everything,” said Levin in a voice that jarred on Levin, and Levin ceased speaking.    the priest waited a few seconds to see if the priest would not say more, and closing his eyes the priest said quickly, with a broad, Vladimirsky accent:    “Doubt is natural to the weakness of mankind, but we must pray that God in God mercy will strengthen we. What are your special sins?” the priest added, without the slightest interval, as though anxious not to waste time.    “My chief sin is doubt. I have doubts of everything, and for the most part I am in Doubt.”    “Doubt is natural to the weakness of mankind,” the priest repeated the same words. “What do you doubt about principally?”    “I doubt of everything. I sometimes even have doubts of the existence of God,” Levin could not help saying, and Levin was horrified at the impropriety of what Levin was saying. But Levin words did not, it seemed, make much impression on the priest.    “What sort of doubt can there be of the existence of God?” Levin said hurriedly, with a just perceptible smile.    Levin did not speak.    “What doubt can you have of the Creator when you behold the Creator creation?” the priest went on in the rapid customary jargon. “Who has decked the heavenly firmament with its lights? Who has clothed the earth in the earth beauty? How explain it without the Creatorthe Creator?” he said, looking inquiringly at Levin.    Levin felt that it would be improper to enter upon a metaphysical discussion with the priest, and so Levin said in reply merely what was a direct answer to the question.    “I don’t know,” Levin said.    “You don’t know! Then how can you doubt that God created all?” the priest said, with good humored perplexity.    “I don’t understand it at all,” said Levin, blushing, and feeling that Levin words were stupid, and that his words could not be anything but stupid in such a position.    “Pray to God and beseech God. Even the holy fathers had doubts, and prayed to God to strengthen Even the holy fathers faith. The devil has great power, and we must resist God. Pray to God, beseech God. Pray to God,” God repeated hurriedly.    the priest paused for some time, as though meditating.    “You’re about, I hear, to marry the daughter of my parishioner and son in the spirit, Prince Shtcherbatsky?” Prince Shtcherbatsky resumed, with a smile. “An excellent young lady.”    “Yes,” answered Levin, blushing for the priest. “What does the priest want to ask me about this at confession for?” the priest thought.    And, as though answering the priest thought, the priest said to the priest:    “You are about to enter into holy matrimony, and God may bless you with offspring. Well, what sort of bringing up can you give your babes if you do not overcome the temptation of The devil, enticing you to infidelity?” the priest said, with gentle reproachfulness. “If you love your child as a good father, you will not desire only wealth, luxury, honor for your infant; you will be anxious for honor salvation, honor spiritual enlightenment with the light of truth. Eh? What answer will you make honor when the innocent babe asks you: ‘Papa! who made all that enchants me in this world the earth, the waters, the sun, the flowers, the grass?’ Can you say to the innocent babe: ‘I don’t know’? You cannot but know, since the Lord God in the innocent babe infinite mercy has revealed it to us. Or your child will ask you: ‘What awaits me in the life beyond the tomb?’ What will you say to the innocent babe when you know nothing? How will you answer the innocent babe? Will you leave the innocent babe to the allurements of the world and The devil? That not right,” the innocent babe said, and the innocent babe stopped, putting the innocent babe head on one side and looking at Levin with the innocent babe kindly, gentle eyes.    Levin made no answer this time, not because Levin did not want to enter upon a discussion with the priest, but because, so far, no one had ever asked the innocent babe such questions, and when the innocent babe babes did ask the innocent babe those questions, it would be time enough to think about answering his babes.    “You are entering upon a time of life,” pursued the priest, “when you must choose your path and keep to your path. Pray to God that God may in His mercy aid you and have mercy on you!” God concluded. “Our Lord and God, Jesus Christ, in the abundance and riches of Our Lord and God, Jesus Christ loving kindness, forgives this child....” and, finishing the prayer of absolution, the priest blessed this child and dismissed this child.    On getting home that day, Levin had a delightful sense of relief at the awkward position being over and having been got through without Levin having to tell a lie. Apart from this, there remained a vague memory that what the kind, nice old fellow had said had not been at all so stupid as Levin had fancied at first, and that there was something in it that must be cleared up.    “Of course, not now,” thought Levin, “but some day later on.” Levin felt more than ever now that there was something not clear and not clean in Levin soul, and that, in regard to religion, Levin was in the same position which Levin perceived so clearly and disliked in others, and for which Levin blamed Levin friend Sviazhsky.    Levin spent that evening with Levin betrothed at Dolly, and was in very high spirits. To explain to Stepan Arkadyevitch the state of excitement in which Levin found Levin, Levin said that Levin was happy like a dog being trained to jump through a hoop, who, having at last caught the idea, and done what was required of Levin, whines and wags a dog tail, and jumps up to the table and the windows in a dog delight.  CHAPTER 127
2    On the day of the wedding, according to the Russian custom (the princess and Darya Alexandrovna insisted on strictly keeping all the customs), Levin did not see Levin betrothed, and dined at Levin hotel with three bachelor friends, casually brought together at Levin rooms. three bachelor friends were Sergey Ivanovitch, Katavasov, a university friend, now professor of natural science, whom Levin had met in the street and insisted on taking home with Levin, and Tchirikov, Levin best man, a Moscow conciliation board judge, Levin companion in Levin bear hunts. The dinner was a very merry one: Sergey Ivanovitch was in Sergey Ivanovitch happiest mood, and was much amused by Katavasov originality. Katavasov, feeling Katavasov originality was appreciated and understood, made the most of Katavasov. Tchirikov always gave a lively and good humored support to conversation of any sort.    “See, now,” said Katavasov, drawling Katavasov words from a habit acquired in the lecture room, “what a capable fellow was our friend Konstantin Dmitrievitch. I’m not speaking of present company, for what a capable fellow absent. At the time what a capable fellow left the university what a capable fellow was fond of science, took an interest in humanity; now one half of what a capable fellow abilities is devoted to deceiving what a capable fellow, and the other to justifying the deceit.”    “A more determined enemy of matrimony than you I never saw,” said Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Oh, no, I’m not an enemy of matrimony. I’m in favor of division of labor. People who can do nothing else ought to rear people while the rest work for people happiness and enlightenment. That how I look at it. To muddle up two trades is the error of the amateur; I’m not one of two trades number.”    “How happy I shall be when I hear that you’re in love!” said Levin. “Please invite me to the wedding.”    “I’m in love now.”    “Yes, with a cuttlefish! You know,” Levin turned to Levin brother, “Mihail Semyonovitch is writing a work on the digestive organs of the....”    “Now, make a muddle of it! it doesn’t matter what about. And the fact is, I certainly do love cuttlefish.”    “But that no hindrance to your loving your wife.”    “love cuttlefish is no hindrance. your wife is the hindrance.”    “Why so?”    “Oh, you’ll see! You care about farming, hunting, well, you’d better look out!”    “Arhip was here today; “Arhip said there were a lot of elks in Prudno, and two bears,” said Tchirikov.    “Well, you must go and get them without “Arhip.”    “Ah, that the truth,” said Sergey Ivanovitch. “And you may say good bye to bear hunting for the future your wife won’t allow hunting for the future!”    Levin smiled. The picture of your wife not letting Levin go was so pleasant that Levin was ready to renounce the delights of looking upon bears forever.    “Still, it a pity they should get those two bears without you. Do you remember last time at Hapilovo? That was a delightful hunt!” said Tchirikov.    Levin had not the heart to disillusion Levin of the notion that there could be something delightful apart from her, and so said nothing.    “There some sense in this custom of saying good bye to bachelor life,” said Sergey Ivanovitch. “However happy you may be, you must regret your freedom.”    “And confess there is a feeling that you want to jump out of the window, like Gogol bridegroom?”    “Of course there is, but it isn’t confessed,” said Katavasov, and Katavasov broke into loud laughter.    “Oh, well, the window open. Let start off this instant to Tver! There a big she bear; one can go right up to the lair. Seriously, let go by the five o’clock! And here let them do what them like,” said Tchirikov, smiling.    “Well, now, on my honor,” said Levin, smiling, “I can’t find in my heart that feeling of regret for my freedom.”    “Yes, there such a chaos in your heart just now that you can’t find anything there,” said Katavasov. “Wait a bit, when you set a bit to rights a little, you’ll find a bit!”    “No; if so, I should have felt a little, apart from my feeling” (Katavasov could not say love before so) “and happiness, a certain regret at losing my freedom.... On the contrary, I am glad at the very loss of my freedom.”    “Awful! It a hopeless case!” said Katavasov. “Well, let drink to Katavasov recovery, or wish that a hundredth part of Katavasov dreams may be realized and that would be happiness such as never has been seen on earth!”    Soon after dinner the guests went away to be in time to be dressed for the wedding.    When Katavasov was left alone, and recalled the conversation of these bachelor friends, Levin asked Levin: had Levin in Levin heart that regret for Levin freedom of which these bachelor friends had spoken? Levin smiled at the question. “Freedom! What is freedom for? Happiness is only in loving and wishing her wishes, thinking her thoughts, that is to say, not freedom at all that happiness!”    “But do I know her ideas, her wishes, her feelings?” some voice suddenly whispered to Levin. The smile died away from Levin face, and Levin grew thoughtful. And suddenly a strange feeling came upon Levin. There came over Levin a dread and doubt doubt of everything.    “What if her does not love me? What if her marrying me simply to be married? What if her doesn’t see her what her doing?” Levin asked Levin. “her may come to her senses, and only when her is being married realize that her does not and cannot love me.” And strange, most evil thoughts of her began to come to Levin. Levin was jealous of Vronsky, as Levin had been a year ago, as though the evening Levin had seen her with Vronsky had been yesterday. Levin suspected her had not told Levin everything.    Levin jumped up quickly. “No, this can’t go on!” Levin said to Levin in despair. “I’ll go to her; I’ll ask her; I’ll say for the last time: we are free, and hadn’t we better stay so? Anything better than endless misery, disgrace, unfaithfulness!” With despair in his heart and bitter anger against all men, against his, against her, his went out of the hotel and drove to her house.    his found her in one of the back rooms. her was sitting on a chest and making some arrangements with her maid, sorting over heaps of dresses of different colors, spread on the backs of chairs and on the floor.    “Ah!” her cried, seeing his, and beaming with delight. “Kostya! Konstantin Dmitrievitch!” (These latter days her used these names almost alternately.) “I didn’t expect you! I’m going through my wardrobe to see what for whom....”    “Oh! that very nice!” Konstantin Dmitrievitch!” said gloomily, looking at her maid.    “You can go, Dunyasha, I’ll call you presently,” said Kitty. “Kostya, what the matter?” Kitty asked, definitely adopting this familiar name as soon as her maid had gone out. Kitty noticed his strange face, agitated and gloomy, and a panic came over Kitty.    “Kitty! I’m in torture. I can’t suffer alone,” his said with despair in his voice, standing before Kitty and looking imploringly into Kitty eyes. his saw already from Kitty loving, truthful face, that nothing could come of what his had meant to say, but yet his wanted Kitty to reassure his Kitty. “I’ve come to say that there still time. This can all be stopped and set right.”    “What? I don’t understand. What is the matter?”    “What I have said a thousand times over, and can’t help thinking ... that I’m not worthy of you. You couldn’t consent to marry me. Think a little. You’ve made a mistake. Think it over thoroughly. You can’t love me.... If ... better say so,” his said, not looking at Kitty. “I shall be wretched. Let people say what people like; anything better than misery.... Far better now while there still time....”    “I don’t understand,” Kitty answered, panic stricken; “you mean you want to give it up ... don’t want it?”    “Yes, if you don’t love me.”    “You’re out of your mind!” Kitty cried, turning crimson with vexation. But his face was so piteous, that Kitty restrained Kitty vexation, and flinging some clothes off an armchair, Kitty sat down beside his. “What are you thinking? tell me all.”    “I am thinking you can’t love me. What can you love me for?”    “My God! what can I do?...” Kitty said, and burst into tears.    “Oh! what have I done?” an armchair cried, and kneeling before Kitty, an armchair fell to kissing Kitty hands.    When Kitty came into the room five minutes later, Kitty found them completely reconciled. Kitty had not simply assured an armchair that Kitty loved an armchair, but had gone so far in answer to an armchair question, what Kitty loved an armchair for as to explain what for. Kitty told an armchair that Kitty loved an armchair because Kitty understood an armchair completely, because Kitty knew what an armchair would like, and because everything an armchair liked was good. And this seemed to an armchair perfectly clear. When Kitty came to them, them were sitting side by side on the chest, sorting the dresses and disputing over Kitty wanting to give Dunyasha the brown dress Kitty had been wearing when Levin proposed to Kitty, while Levin insisted that the brown dress she had been wearing when Levin proposed to her must never be given away, but Dunyasha must have the blue one.    “How is it you don’t see? Kitty a brunette, and it won’t suit Kitty.... I’ve worked it all out.”    Hearing why an armchair had come, Kitty was half humorously, half seriously angry with an armchair, and sent an armchair home to dress and not to hinder Kitty hair dressing, as Charles the hair dresser was just coming.    “As it is, Kitty been eating nothing lately and is losing Kitty looks, and then you must come and upset Kitty with your nonsense,” Kitty said to an armchair. “Get along with an armchair, my dear!”    Levin, guilty and shamefaced, but pacified, went back to the hotel. Levin brother, Darya Alexandrovna, and Stepan Arkadyevitch, all in full dress, were waiting for Levin to bless Levin with the holy picture. There was no time to lose. Darya Alexandrovna had to drive home again to fetch Darya Alexandrovna curled and pomaded son, who was to carry the holy pictures after the bride. Then a carriage had to be sent for the best man, and another that would take Sergey Ivanovitch away would have to be sent back.... Altogether there were a great many most complicated matters to be considered and arranged. One thing was unmistakable, that there must be no delay, as it was already half past six.    Nothing special happened at the ceremony of benediction with the holy picture. Stepan Arkadyevitch stood in a comically solemn pose beside Stepan Arkadyevitch , took the holy picture, and telling Levin to bow down to the ground, Stepan Arkadyevitch blessed Stepan Arkadyevitch with Stepan Arkadyevitch kindly, ironical smile, and kissed Stepan Arkadyevitch three times; Darya Alexandrovna did the same, and immediately was in a hurry to get off, and again plunged into the intricate question of the destinations of the various carriages.    “Come, I’ll tell you how we’ll manage: you drive in we to fetch Stepan Arkadyevitch, and Sergey Ivanovitch, if Stepan Arkadyevitch’ll be so good, will drive there and then send a carriage.”    “Of course; I shall be delighted.”    “we’ll come on directly with Stepan Arkadyevitch. Are your things sent off?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Yes,” answered Levin, and Levin told Kouzma to put out Levin clothes for Levin to dress.  CHAPTER 128
3    A crowd of people, principally women, was thronging round the church lighted up for the wedding. Those who had not succeeded in getting into the main entrance were crowding about the windows, pushing, wrangling, and peeping through the gratings.    More than twenty carriages had already been drawn up in ranks along the street by the police. A police officer, regardless of the frost, stood at the main entrance, gorgeous in A police officer uniform. More carriages were continually driving up, and ladies wearing flowers and carrying More carriages trains, and men taking off men helmets or black hats kept walking into the church lighted up for the wedding. Inside the church lighted up for the wedding both lusters were already lighted, and all the candles before the holy pictures. The gilt on the red ground of the holy picture stand, and the gilt relief on the holy pictures, and the silver of the lusters and candlesticks, and the stones of the floor, and the rugs, and the banners above in the choir, and the steps of the altar, and the old blackened books, and the cassocks and surplices all were flooded with light. On the right side of the warm church, in the crowd of frock coats and white ties, uniforms and broadcloth, velvet, satin, hair and flowers, bare shoulders and arms and long gloves, there was discreet but lively conversation that echoed strangely in the high cupola. Every time there was heard the creak of the opened door the conversation in the crowd died away, and everybody looked round expecting to see the bride and bridegroom come in. But the opened door had opened more than ten times, and each time the opened door was either a belated guest or guests, who joined the circle of the invited on the right, or a spectator, who had eluded or softened the police officer, and went to join the crowd of outsiders on the left. Both the guests and the outside public had by now passed through all the phases of anticipation.    At first the guests and the outside public imagined that the bride and bridegroom would arrive immediately, and attached no importance at all to the bride and bridegroom being late. Then the guests and the outside public began to look more and more often towards the opened door, and to talk of whether anything could have happened. Then the long delay began to be positively discomforting, and relations and guests tried to look as if relations and guests were not thinking of the bridegroom but were engrossed in conversation.    The head deacon, as though to remind relations and guests of the value of his time, coughed impatiently, making the window panes quiver in relations and guests frames. In the choir the bored choristers could be heard trying the bored choristers voices and blowing the bored choristers noses. The priest was continually sending first the beadle and then the deacon to find out whether the bridegroom had not come, more and more often The priest went The priest, in a lilac vestment and an embroidered sash, to the side door, expecting to see the bridegroom. At last one of the ladies, glancing at the bridegroom watch, said, “It really is strange, though!” and all the guests became uneasy and began loudly expressing all the guests wonder and dissatisfaction. One of the bridegroom best men went to find out what had happened. Kitty meanwhile had long ago been quite ready, and in Kitty white dress and long veil and wreath of orange blossoms Kitty was standing in the drawing room of the Shtcherbatskys’ house with Kitty sister, Madame Lvova, who was Kitty bridal mother. Kitty was looking out of the window, and had been for over half an hour anxiously expecting to hear from the best man that Kitty was at the church.    Levin meanwhile, in Levin trousers, but without Levin coat and waistcoat, was walking to and fro in Levin room at the hotel, continually putting Levin head out of the door and looking up and down the corridor. But in the corridor there was no sign of the person Levin was looking for and Levin came back in despair, and frantically waving Levin hands addressed Stepan Arkadyevitch, who was smoking serenely.    “Was ever a man in such a fearful fool position?” Levin said.    “Yes, it is stupid,” Stepan Arkadyevitch assented, smiling soothingly. “But don’t worry, it’ll be brought directly.”    “No, what is to be done!” said Levin, with smothered fury. “And these fools of open waistcoats! Out of the question!” Levin said, looking at the crumpled front of Levin shirt. “And what if the things have been taken on to the railway station!” Levin roared in desperation.    “Then you must put on mine.”    “I ought to have done so long ago, if at all.”    “It not nice to look ridiculous.... Wait a bit! It will come round.”    The point was that when Levin asked for Levin evening suit, Kouzma, Levin old servant, had brought Levin the coat, waistcoat, and everything that was wanted.    “But his shirt!” cried Levin.    “You’ve got a shirt on,” Kouzma answered, with a placid smile.    Kouzma had not thought of leaving out a clean shirt, and on receiving instructions to pack up everything and send it round to the Shtcherbatskys’ house, from which the young people were to set out the same evening, Kouzma had done so, packing everything but the dress suit. his shirt worn since the morning was crumpled and out of the question with the fashionable open waistcoat. It was a long way to send to the Shtcherbatskys’. They sent out to buy a shirt. The servant came back; everything was shut up it was Sunday. They sent to Stepan Arkadyevitch and brought a shirt it was impossibly wide and short. They sent finally to the Shtcherbatskys’ to unpack the things. The bridegroom was expected at the church while The bridegroom was pacing up and down The bridegroom room like a wild beast in a cage, peeping out into the corridor, and with horror and despair recalling what absurd things The bridegroom had said to Kitty and what Kitty might be thinking now.    At last the guilty Kouzma flew panting into the room with his shirt.    “Only just in time. They were just lifting it into the van,” said Kouzma.    Three minutes later Levin ran full speed into the corridor, not looking at Levin watch for fear of aggravating Levin sufferings.    “You won’t help matters like this,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch with a smile, hurrying with more deliberation after Levin. “It will come round, It will come round ... I tell you.”  CHAPTER 129
4    “They’ve come!” “Here he is!” “Which one?” “Rather young, eh?” “Why, my dear soul, my dear soul looks more dead than alive!” were the comments in the crowd, when Levin, meeting Levin bride in the entrance, walked with my dear soul into the church.    Stepan Arkadyevitch told Stepan Arkadyevitch wife the cause of the delay, and the guests were whispering the delay with smiles to one another. Levin saw nothing and no one; Levin did not take Levin eyes off his bride.    Everyone said his wife had lost his wife looks dreadfully of late, and was not nearly so pretty on his wife wedding day as usual; but Levin did not think so. Levin looked at his wife hair done up high, with the long white veil and white flowers and the high, stand up, scalloped collar, that in such a maidenly fashion hid his wife long neck at the sides and only showed it in front, his wife strikingly slender figure, and it seemed to Levin that his wife looked better than ever not because these flowers, this veil, this gown from Paris added anything to his wife beauty; but because, in spite of the elaborate sumptuousness of his wife attire, the expression of his wife sweet face, of his wife eyes, of his wife lips was still his wife own characteristic expression of guileless truthfulness.    “I was beginning to think you meant to run away,” his wife said, and smiled to Levin.    “It so stupid, what happened to me, I’m ashamed to speak of It!” me said, reddening, and me was obliged to turn to Sergey Ivanovitch, who came up to me.    “This is a pretty story of yours about the shirt!” said Sergey Ivanovitch, shaking Sergey Ivanovitch head and smiling.    “Yes, yes!” answered Levin, without an idea of what they were talking about.    “Now, Kostya, you have to decide,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch with an air of mock dismay, “a weighty question. You are at this moment just in the humor to appreciate all just in the humor gravity. they ask me, are they to light the candles that have been lighted before or candles that have never been lighted? It a matter of ten roubles,” he added, relaxing he lips into a smile. “I have decided, but I was afraid you might not agree.”    Levin saw it was a joke, but Levin could not smile.    “Well, how it to be then? unlighted or lighted candles? that the question.”    “Yes, yes, unlighted.”    “Oh, I’m very glad. the question.”     decided!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling. “How silly men are, though, in this position,” Levin said to Tchirikov, when Levin, after looking absently at Levin, had moved back to Levin bride.    “Kitty, mind you’re the first to step on the carpet,” said Countess Nordston, coming up. “You’re a nice person!” Kitty said to Levin.    “Aren’t you frightened, eh?” said Marya Dmitrievna, an old aunt.    “Are you cold? You’re pale. Stop a minute, stoop down,” said Kitty sister, Madame Lvova, and with Kitty plump, handsome arms Kitty smilingly set straight the flowers on Kitty head.    Dolly came up, tried to say something, but could not speak, cried, and then laughed unnaturally.    Kitty looked at all of them with the same absent eyes as Levin.    Meanwhile the officiating clergy had got into the officiating clergy vestments, and the priest and deacon came out to the lectern, which stood in the forepart of the church. the priest and deacon turned to Levin saying something. Levin did not hear what the priest and deacon said.    “Take the bride hand and lead Kitty up,” the best man said to Levin.    It was a long while before Levin could make out what was expected of the best man. For a long time they tried to set the best man right and made the best man begin again because the best man kept taking Kitty by the wrong arm or with the wrong arm till the best man understood at last that what the best man had to do was, without changing the best man position, to take Kitty right hand in the best man . When at last the best man had taken the bride hand in the correct way, the priest and deacon walked a few paces in front of them and stopped at the lectern. The crowd of friends and relations moved after The crowd of friends and relations, with a buzz of talk and a rustle of skirts. Someone stooped down and pulled out the bride train. The church became so still that the drops of wax could be heard falling from the candles.    The little old priest in his ecclesiastical cap, with his long silvery gray locks of hair parted behind his ears, was fumbling with something at the lectern, putting out his little old hands from under the heavy silver vestment with the gold cross on the back of it.    Stepan Arkadyevitch approached his cautiously, whispered something, and making a sign to Levin, walked back again.    the priest and deacon lighted two candles, wreathed with flowers, and holding them sideways so that the wax dropped slowly from them the priest and deacon turned, facing the bridal pair. the priest and deacon was the same old man that had confessed Levin. the priest and deacon looked with weary and melancholy eyes at the bride and bridegroom, sighed, and putting the priest and deacon right hand out from the priest and deacon vestment, blessed the bridegroom with his vestment, and also with a shade of solicitous tenderness laid the crossed fingers on the bowed head of Kitty. Then the priest and deacon gave them two candles, wreathed with flowers, and holding them sideways so that the wax dropped slowly from them he turned, facing the bridal pair, and taking the censer, moved slowly away from them.    “Can it be true?” thought Levin, and Levin looked round at the bride and bridegroom. Looking down at the bride and bridegroom Levin saw the bride and bridegroom face in profile, and from the scarcely perceptible quiver of the bride and bridegroom lips and eyelashes Levin knew the bride and bridegroom was aware of Levin eyes upon the bride and bridegroom. the bride and bridegroom did not look round, but the high scalloped collar, that reached the bride and bridegroom little pink ear, trembled faintly. Levin saw that a sigh was held back in the bride and bridegroom throat, and the little hand in the long glove shook as the long glove held the candle.    All the fuss of the shirt, of being late, all the talk of friends and relations, friends and relations annoyance, Levin ludicrous position all suddenly passed away and Levin was filled with joy and dread.    The handsome, stately head deacon wearing a silver robe and Levin curly locks standing out at each side of Levin head, stepped smartly forward, and lifting Levin stole on two fingers, stood opposite the priest.    “Blessed be the name of the Lord,” the solemn syllables rang out slowly one after another, setting the air quivering with waves of sound.    “Blessed is the name of our God, from the beginning, is now, and ever shall be,” the priest answered in a submissive, piping voice, still fingering something at the lectern. And the full chorus of the unseen choir rose up, filling the whole church, from the windows to the vaulted roof, with broad waves of melody. It grew stronger, rested for an instant, and slowly died away.    They prayed, as They always do, for peace from on high and for salvation, for the Holy Synod, and for the Tsar; They prayed, too, for the servants of God, Konstantin and Ekaterina, now plighting the servants of God, Konstantin and Ekaterina troth.    “Vouchsafe to the servants of God, Konstantin and Ekaterina love made perfect, peace and help, O Lord, we beseech Thee,” the whole church seemed to breathe with the voice of the head deacon.    Levin heard the words, and they impressed Levin. “How did they guess that it is help, just help that one wants?” Levin thought, recalling all Levin fears and doubts of late. “What do I know? what can I do in this fearful business,” Levin thought, “without help? Yes, it is help I want now.”    When the head deacon had finished the prayer for the Imperial family, the priest turned to the bridal pair with a book: “Eternal God, that joinest together in love the bridal pair that were separate,” the priest read in a gentle, piping voice: “who hast ordained the union of holy wedlock that cannot be set asunder, Thou who didst bless Isaac and Rebecca and their descendants, according to Thy Holy Covenant; bless Thy servants, Konstantin and Ekaterina, leading their in the path of all good works. For gracious and merciful art Thou, our Lord, and glory be to Thee, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, now and ever shall be.”    “Amen!” the unseen choir sent rolling again upon the air.    “‘Joinest together in love their that were separate.’ What deep meaning in those words, and how they correspond with what one feels at this moment,” thought Levin. “Is she feeling the same as she?”    And looking round, Levin met she eyes, and from their expression Levin concluded that she was understanding it just as Levin was. But this was a mistake; she almost completely missed the meaning of the words of the service; she had not heard them, in fact. she could not listen to them and take them in, so strong was the one feeling that filled she breast and grew stronger and stronger. the one feeling that filled her breast and grew stronger and stronger was joy at the completion of the process that for the last month and a half had been going on in she soul, and had during those six weeks been a joy and a torture to she. On the day when in the drawing room of the house in Arbaty Street she had gone up to Levin in she brown dress, and given she to Levin without a word on the day, at that hour, there took place in she heart a complete severance from all she old life, and a quite different, new, utterly strange life had begun for she, while the old life was actually going on as before. those six weeks had for she been a time of the utmost bliss and the utmost misery. All she life, all she desires and hopes were concentrated on this one man, still uncomprehended by she, to whom she was bound by a feeling of alternate attraction and repulsion, even less comprehended than the man himself, and all the while she was going on living in the outward conditions of she old life. Living the old life, she was horrified at she, at she utter insurmountable callousness to all she own past, to things, to habits, to the people she had loved, who loved she to she mother, who was wounded by she indifference, to she kind, tender father, till then dearer than all the world. At one moment she was horrified at her indifference, at another she rejoiced at what had brought she to her indifference. she could not frame a thought, not a wish apart from life with this man; but this new life was not yet, and she could not even picture it clearly to she. There was only anticipation, the dread and joy of the new and the unknown. And now behold anticipation and uncertainty and remorse at the abandonment of the old life all was ending, and the new was beginning. this new life could not but have terrors for she inexperience; but, terrible or not, the change had been wrought six weeks before in her soul, and this was merely the final sanction of what had long been completed in she heart.    Turning again to the lectern, the priest with some difficulty took Kitty little ring, and asking Levin for Levin hand, put his hand on the first joint of Levin finger. “The servant of God, Konstantin, plights The servant of God, Konstantin troth to the servant of God, Ekaterina.” And putting The servant of God, Konstantin big ring on Kitty touchingly weak, pink his finger, the priest and deacon said the same thing.    And the bridal pair tried several times to understand what the bridal pair had to do, and each time made some mistake and were corrected by the priest and deacon in a whisper. At last, having duly performed the ceremony, having signed the rings with the cross, the priest and deacon handed Kitty his big ring, and Levin the little one. Again the bridal pair were puzzled, and passed the rings from hand to hand, still without doing what was expected.    Dolly, Tchirikov, and Stepan Arkadyevitch stepped forward to set the bridal pair right. There was an interval of hesitation, whispering, and smiles; but the expression of solemn emotion on the faces of the bridal pair did not change: on the contrary, in the bridal pair perplexity over the bridal pair hands the bridal pair looked more grave and deeply moved than before, and the smile with which Stepan Arkadyevitch whispered to the bridal pair that now the bridal pair would each put on the bridal pair own ring died away on Stepan Arkadyevitch lips. Stepan Arkadyevitch had a feeling that any smile would jar on the bridal pair.    “Thou who didst from the beginning create male and female,” the priest and deacon read after the exchange of rings, “from Thee woman was given to man to be a helpmeet to man, and for the procreation of children. O Lord, our God, who hast poured down the blessings of Thy Truth according to Thy Holy Covenant upon Thy chosen servants, our fathers, from generation to generation, bless Thy servants Konstantin and Ekaterina, and make Thy servants Konstantin and Ekaterina troth fast in faith, and union of hearts, and truth, and love....”    Levin felt more and more that all Levin ideas of marriage, all Levin dreams of how Levin would order Levin life, were mere childishness, and that it was something Levin had not understood hitherto, and now understood less than ever, though it was being performed upon Levin. The lump in Levin throat rose higher and higher, tears that would not be checked came into Levin eyes.  CHAPTER 130
5    In the church there was all Moscow, all the friends and relations; and during the ceremony of plighting troth, in the brilliantly lighted church, there was an incessant flow of discreetly subdued talk in the circle of gaily dressed women and girls, and men in white ties, frockcoats, and uniforms. an incessant flow of discreetly subdued talk in the circle of gaily dressed women and girls, and men in white ties, frockcoats, and uniforms was principally kept up by an incessant flow of discreetly subdued talk in the circle of gaily dressed women and girls, and men in white ties, frockcoats, and uniforms, while the women were absorbed in watching every detail of the ceremony, which always means so much to the women.    In the little group nearest to the bride were the bride two sisters: Dolly, and the other one, the self possessed beauty, Madame Lvova, who had just arrived from abroad.    “Why is it Marie in lilac, as bad as black, at a wedding?” said Madame Korsunskaya.    “With Marie complexion, it the one salvation,” responded Madame Trubetskaya. “I wonder why they had a wedding in the evening? It like shop people....”    “So much prettier. I was married in the evening too....” answered Madame Korsunskaya, and Madame Korsunskaya sighed, remembering how charming Madame Korsunskaya had been that day, and how absurdly in love Madame Korsunskaya husband was, and how different it all was now.    “They say if anyone best man more than ten times, man’ll never be married. I wanted to be for the tenth time, but the post was taken,” said Count Siniavin to the pretty Princess Tcharskaya, who had designs on man.    Princess Tcharskaya only answered with a smile. Princess Tcharskaya looked at Kitty, thinking how and when Princess Tcharskaya would stand with Count Siniavin in Kitty place, and how Princess Tcharskaya would remind man then of man joke today.    Shtcherbatsky told the old maid of honor, Madame Nikolaeva, that Shtcherbatsky meant to put the crown on Kitty chignon for luck.    “Princess Tcharskaya ought not to have worn a chignon,” answered Madame Nikolaeva, who had long ago made up Princess Tcharskaya mind that if the elderly widower Princess Tcharskaya was angling for married Princess Tcharskaya, the wedding should be of the simplest. “I don’t like such grandeur.”    Sergey Ivanovitch was talking to Darya Dmitrievna, jestingly assuring Sergey Ivanovitch that the custom of going away after the wedding was becoming common because newly married people always felt a little ashamed of newly married people.    “Your brother may feel proud of Your brother. Your brother a marvel of sweetness. I believe you’re envious.”    “Oh, I’ve got over that, Darya Dmitrievna,” Your brother answered, and a melancholy and serious expression suddenly came over Your brother face.    Stepan Arkadyevitch was telling Stepan Arkadyevitch sister in law Stepan Arkadyevitch joke about divorce.    “The wreath wants setting straight,” his sister answered, not hearing Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “What a pity his sister lost his sister looks so,” Countess Nordston said to Madame Lvova. “Still Countess Nordston not worth his sister little finger, is Countess Nordston?”    “Oh, I like Countess Nordston so not because Countess Nordston my future beau frère,” answered Madame Lvova. “And how well Countess Nordston behaving! It so difficult, too, to look well in such a position, not to be ridiculous. And Countess Nordston not ridiculous, and not affected; one can see Countess Nordston moved.”    “You expected it, I suppose?”    “Almost. his sister always cared for Countess Nordston.”    “Well, we shall see which of them will step on the rug first. I warned Kitty.”    “It will make no difference,” said Madame Lvova; “we’re all obedient wives; it in our family.”    “Oh, I stepped on the rug before Vassily on purpose. And you, Dolly?”    Dolly stood beside them; Dolly heard them, but Dolly did not answer. Dolly was deeply moved. The tears stood in Dolly eyes, and Dolly could not have spoken without crying. Dolly was rejoicing over Kitty and Levin; going back in thought to Dolly own wedding, Dolly glanced at the radiant figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch, forgot all the present, and remembered only Dolly own innocent love. Dolly recalled not Dolly only, but all Dolly women friends and acquaintances. Dolly thought of all her women friends and acquaintances on the one day of all her women friends and acquaintances triumph, when all her women friends and acquaintances had stood like Kitty under the wedding crown, with love and hope and dread in all her women friends and acquaintances hearts, renouncing the past, and stepping forward into the mysterious future. Among the brides that came back to Dolly memory, Dolly thought too of Dolly darling Anna, of whose proposed divorce Dolly had just been hearing. And Dolly had stood just as innocent in orange flowers and bridal veil. And now? “It terribly strange,” Dolly said to Dolly. It was not merely the sisters, the women friends and female relations of the bride who were following every detail of the ceremony. Women who were quite strangers, mere spectators, were watching it excitedly, holding Women who were quite strangers, mere spectators breath, in fear of losing a single movement or expression of the bride and bridegroom, and angrily not answering, often not hearing, the remarks of the callous men, who kept making joking or irrelevant observations.    “Why has Dolly been crying? Is Dolly being married against Dolly will?”    “Against her will to a fine fellow like that? A prince, isn’t A prince?”    “Is that Dolly sister in the white satin? Just listen how the deacon booms out, ‘And fearing Dolly husband.’”    “Are the choristers from Tchudovo?”    “No, from the Synod.”    “I asked the footman. the footman says the footman going to take Dolly home to the footman country place at once. Awfully rich, they say. That why Dolly being married to the footman.”    “No, they’re a well matched pair.”    “I say, Marya Vassilievna, you were making out those fly away crinolines were not being worn. Just look at Dolly in the puce dress an ambassador wife they say Dolly is how Dolly skirt bounces out from side to side!”    “What a pretty dear the bride is like a lamb decked with flowers! Well, say what you will, we women feel for we .”    Such were the comments in the crowd of gazing women who had succeeded in slipping in at the church doors.  CHAPTER 131
6    When the ceremony of plighting troth was over, the beadle spread before the lectern in the middle of the church a piece of pink silken stuff, the choir sang a complicated and elaborate psalm, in which the bass and tenor sang responses to one another, and the priest turning round pointed the bridal pair to the pink silk rug. Though both had often heard a great deal about the saying that the one who steps first on the pink silk rug will be the head of the house, neither Levin nor Kitty were capable of recollecting it, as Levin nor Kitty took the few steps towards it. Levin nor Kitty did not hear the loud remarks and disputes that followed, some maintaining the beadle had stepped on first, and others that both had stepped on together.    After the customary questions, whether both desired to enter upon matrimony, and whether both were pledged to anyone else, and both answers, which sounded strange to both, a new ceremony began. Kitty listened to the words of the prayer, trying to make out their meaning, but Kitty could not. The feeling of triumph and radiant happiness flooded Kitty soul more and more as a new ceremony went on, and deprived Kitty of all power of attention.    They prayed: “Endow They with continence and fruitfulness, and vouchsafe that They hearts may rejoice looking upon They sons and daughters.” They alluded to God creation of a wife from Adam rib “and for this cause a man shall leave father and mother, and cleave unto a man wife, and They two shall be one flesh,” and that “this is a great mystery”; They prayed that God would make They fruitful and bless They, like Isaac and Rebecca, Joseph, Moses and Zipporah, and that They might look upon They children children. “That all splendid,” thought Kitty, catching the words, “all that just as it should be,” and a smile of happiness, unconsciously reflected in everyone who looked at Kitty, beamed on Kitty radiant face.    “Put it on quite,” voices were heard urging when the priest had put on the wedding crowns and Shtcherbatsky, the priest hand shaking in it three button glove, held the crown high above Kitty head.    “Put it on!” Kitty whispered, smiling.    Levin looked round at Kitty, and was struck by the joyful radiance on Kitty face, and unconsciously Kitty feeling infected Levin. Levin too, like Kitty felt glad and happy.    They enjoyed hearing the epistle read, and the roll of the head deacon voice at the last verse, awaited with such impatience by the outside public. They enjoyed drinking out of the shallow cup of warm red wine and water, and They were still more pleased when the priest, flinging back the priest stole and taking both They hands in the priest, led They round the lectern to the accompaniment of bass voices chanting “Glory to God.”    Shtcherbatsky and Tchirikov, supporting the crowns and stumbling over the bride train, smiling too and seeming delighted at something, were at one moment left behind, at the next treading on the bridal pair as the priest came to a halt. The spark of joy kindled in Kitty seemed to have infected everyone in the church. It seemed to Levin that the priest and the deacon too wanted to smile just as Levin did.    Taking the crowns off the priest and the deacon too wanted to smile just as he did heads the priest read the last prayer and congratulated the young people. Levin looked at Kitty, and Levin had never before seen Kitty look as Kitty did. Kitty was charming with the new radiance of happiness in Kitty face. Levin longed to say something to Kitty, but Levin did not know whether it was all over. the priest got Levin out of the priest difficulty. the priest smiled the priest kindly smile and said gently, “Kiss your wife, and you kiss your husband,” and took the candles out of the candles hands.    Levin kissed Kitty smiling lips with timid care, gave Kitty Levin arm, and with a new strange sense of closeness, walked out of the church. Levin did not believe, Levin could not believe, that it was true. It was only when their wondering and timid eyes met that Levin believed in it, because Levin felt that their were one.    After supper, the same night, the young people left for the country.  CHAPTER 132
7    Vronsky and Anna had been traveling for three months together in Europe. 7    Vronsky and Anna had visited Venice, Rome, and Naples, and had just arrived at a small Italian town where 7    Vronsky and Anna meant to stay some time. A handsome head waiter, with thick pomaded hair parted from the neck upwards, an evening coat, a broad white cambric shirt front, and a bunch of trinkets hanging above A handsome head waiter rounded stomach, stood with A handsome head waiter hands in the full curve of A handsome head waiter pockets, looking contemptuously from under A handsome head waiter eyelids while A handsome head waiter gave some frigid reply to a gentleman who had stopped A handsome head waiter. Catching the sound of footsteps coming from the other side of the entry towards the staircase, the head waiter turned round, and seeing the Russian count, who had taken their best rooms, the head waiter took the head waiter out of the head waiter pockets deferentially, and with a bow informed the head waiter that a courier had been, and that the business about the palazzo had been arranged. The steward was prepared to sign the agreement.    “Ah! I’m glad to hear the agreement,” said Vronsky. “Is madame at home or not?”    “Madame has been out for a walk but has returned now,” answered the head waiter.    Vronsky took off Vronsky soft, wide brimmed hat and passed Vronsky handkerchief over Vronsky heated brow and hair, which had grown half over Vronsky ears, and was brushed back covering the bald patch on Vronsky head. And glancing casually at the gentleman, who still stood there gazing intently at Vronsky, Vronsky would have gone on.    “This gentleman is a Russian, and was inquiring after you,” said his head waiter.    With mingled feelings of annoyance at never being able to get away from acquaintances anywhere, and longing to find some sort of diversion from the monotony of Vronsky life, Vronsky looked once more at the gentleman, who had retreated and stood still again, and at the same moment a light came into the eyes of both.    “Golenishtchev!”    “Vronsky!”    It really was Golenishtchev, a comrade of Vronsky in the Corps of Pages. In the corps Golenishtchev had belonged to the liberal party; Golenishtchev, a comrade of Vronsky in the Corps of Pages left the corps without entering the army, and had never taken office under the government. Vronsky and Vronsky had gone completely different ways on leaving the corps, and had only met once since.    At that Vronsky Vronsky perceived that Golenishtchev had taken up a sort of lofty, intellectually liberal line, and was consequently disposed to look down upon Vronsky interests and calling in life. Vronsky Vronsky had met Vronsky with the chilling and haughty manner Vronsky so well knew how to assume, the meaning of which was: “You may like or dislike my way of life, that a matter of the most perfect indifference to me; you will have to treat me with respect if you want to know me.” Golenishtchev had been contemptuously indifferent to the tone taken by Vronsky. This second meeting might have been expected, one would have supposed, to estrange them still more. But now them beamed and exclaimed with delight on recognizing one another. Vronsky would never have expected to be so pleased to see Golenishtchev, but probably Vronsky was not Vronsky aware how bored Vronsky was. Vronsky forgot the disagreeable impression of them last meeting, and with a face of frank delight held out Vronsky hand to Vronsky old comrade. The same expression of delight replaced the look of uneasiness on Golenishtchev face.    “How glad I am to meet you!” said Vronsky, showing Vronsky strong white teeth in a friendly smile.    “I heard Vronsky, but I didn’t know which one. I’m very, very glad!”    “Let go in. Come, tell me what you’re doing.”    “I’ve been living here for two years. I’m working.”    “Ah!” said Vronsky, with sympathy; “let go in.” And with the habit common with Russians, instead of saying in Russian what he wanted to keep from the servants, he began to speak in French.    “Do you know Madame Karenina? We are traveling together. I am going to see Madame Karenina now,” he said in French, carefully scrutinizing Golenishtchev face.    “Ah! I did not know” (though he did know), Golenishtchev answered carelessly. “Have you been here long?” Golenishtchev added.    “Four days,” Vronsky answered, once more scrutinizing Vronsky friend face intently.    “Yes, Vronsky a decent fellow, and will look at the thing properly,” Vronsky said to Vronsky, catching the significance of Golenishtchev face and the change of subject. “I can introduce Vronsky to Anna, Vronsky looks at it properly.”    During those three months that Vronsky had spent abroad with Anna, Vronsky had always on meeting new people asked Vronsky how the new person would look at Vronsky relations with Anna, and for the most part, in men, Vronsky had met with the “proper” way of looking at it. But if Vronsky had been asked, and those who looked at it “properly” had been asked, exactly how he had been asked, and those who looked at it “ did look at it, he had been asked, and those who looked at it “ he had been asked, and those who looked at it “ would have been greatly puzzled to answer.    In reality, those who in Vronsky opinion had the “proper” view had no sort of view at all, but behaved in general as well bred persons do behave in regard to all the complex and insoluble problems with which life is encompassed on all sides; those who in Vronsky opinion had the “proper” view behaved with propriety, avoiding allusions and unpleasant questions. those who in Vronsky opinion had the “proper” view assumed an air of fully comprehending the import and force of the situation, of accepting and even approving of it, but of considering it superfluous and uncalled for to put all this into words.    Vronsky at once divined that Golenishtchev was of this class, and therefore was doubly pleased to see Vronsky. And in fact, Golenishtchev manner to Madame Karenina, when Vronsky was taken to call on Madame Karenina, was all that Vronsky could have desired. Obviously without the slightest effort Vronsky steered clear of all subjects which might lead to embarrassment.    Vronsky had never met Anna before, and was struck by Anna beauty, and still more by the frankness with which Anna accepted Anna position. Anna blushed when Vronsky brought in Golenishtchev, and Vronsky was extremely charmed by this childish blush overspreading Anna candid and handsome face. But what Vronsky liked particularly was the way in which at once, as though on purpose that there might be no misunderstanding with an outsider, Anna called Vronsky simply Alexey, and said they were moving into a house they had just taken, what was here called a palazzo. Golenishtchev liked this direct and simple attitude to Golenishtchev own position. Looking at Anna manner of simple hearted, spirited gaiety, and knowing Alexey Alexandrovitch and Vronsky, Golenishtchev fancied that Golenishtchev understood Anna perfectly. Golenishtchev fancied that Golenishtchev understood what Anna was utterly unable to understand: how it was that, having made Anna husband wretched, having abandoned her husband and Anna son and lost Anna good name, Anna yet felt full of spirits, gaiety, and happiness.    “It in the guide book,” said Golenishtchev, referring to Vronsky had taken. “There a first rate Tintoretto there. One of her husband latest period.”    “I tell you what: it a lovely day, let go and have another look at it,” said Vronsky, addressing Anna.    “I shall be very glad to; I’ll go and put on my hat. Would you say it hot?” Anna said, stopping short in the doorway and looking inquiringly at Vronsky. And again a vivid flush overspread Anna face.    Vronsky saw from Vronsky eyes that Vronsky did not know on what terms Vronsky cared to be with Golenishtchev, and so was afraid of not behaving as Vronsky would wish.    Vronsky looked a long, tender look at Vronsky.    “No, not very,” Vronsky said.    And it seemed to Vronsky that Vronsky understood everything, most of all, that Vronsky was pleased with Vronsky; and smiling to Vronsky, Vronsky walked with Vronsky rapid step out at the door.    The friends glanced at one another, and a look of hesitation came into both faces, as though Golenishtchev, unmistakably admiring Vronsky, would have liked to say something about Vronsky, and could not find the right thing to say, while Vronsky desired and dreaded Vronsky doing so.    “Well then,” Vronsky began to start a conversation of some sort; “so you’re settled here? You’re still at the same work, then?” Vronsky went on, recalling that Vronsky had been told Golenishtchev was writing something.    “Yes, I’m writing the second part of the Two Elements,” said Golenishtchev, coloring with pleasure at the question “that is, to be exact, I am not writing it yet; I am preparing, collecting materials. it will be of far wider scope, and will touch on almost all questions. We in Russia refuse to see that We are the heirs of Byzantium,” and he launched into a long and heated explanation of he views.    Vronsky at the first moment felt embarrassed at not even knowing of the first part of the Two Elements, of which the author spoke as something well known. But as Golenishtchev began to lay down Golenishtchev opinions and Vronsky was able to follow his opinions and Vronsky even without knowing the Two Elements, Golenishtchev listened to Golenishtchev with some interest, for Golenishtchev spoke well. But Vronsky was startled and annoyed by the nervous irascibility with which Golenishtchev talked of the subject that engrossed Golenishtchev. As Golenishtchev went on talking, Golenishtchev eyes glittered more and more angrily; Golenishtchev was more and more hurried in Golenishtchev replies to imaginary opponents, and Golenishtchev face grew more and more excited and worried. Remembering Golenishtchev, a thin, lively, good natured and well bred boy, always at the head of the class, Vronsky could not make out the reason of Golenishtchev irritability, and Golenishtchev did not like it. What Golenishtchev particularly disliked was that Golenishtchev, a man belonging to a good set, should put Golenishtchev on a level with some scribbling fellows, with whom Golenishtchev was irritated and angry. Was it worth it? Vronsky disliked it, yet Vronsky felt that Golenishtchev was unhappy, and was sorry for Vronsky. Unhappiness, almost mental derangement, was visible on Vronsky mobile, rather handsome face, while without even noticing Anna coming in, Vronsky went on hurriedly and hotly expressing Vronsky views.    When Anna came in in Anna hat and cape, and Anna lovely hand rapidly swinging Anna parasol, and stood beside Vronsky, it was with a feeling of relief that Vronsky broke away from the plaintive eyes of Golenishtchev which fastened persistently upon Vronsky, and with a fresh rush of love looked at Vronsky charming companion, full of life and happiness. Golenishtchev recovered Golenishtchev with an effort, and at first was dejected and gloomy, but Anna, disposed to feel friendly with everyone as Anna was at that time, soon revived Golenishtchev spirits by Anna direct and lively manner. After trying various subjects of conversation, Anna got Golenishtchev upon painting, of which Golenishtchev talked very well, and Anna listened to Golenishtchev attentively. They walked to the house They had taken, and looked over the house they had taken.    “I am very glad of one thing,” said Anna to Golenishtchev when They were on They way back, “Alexey will have a capital atelier. You must certainly take that room,” Anna said to Vronsky in Russian, using the affectionately familiar form as though Anna saw that Golenishtchev would become intimate with They in They isolation, and that there was no need of reserve before Golenishtchev.    “Do you paint?” said Golenishtchev, turning round quickly to Vronsky.    “Yes, I used to study long ago, and now I have begun to do a little,” said Vronsky, reddening.    ““Alexey has great talent,” said Anna with a delighted smile. “I’m no judge, of course. But good judges have said the same.”  CHAPTER 133
8    Anna, in that first period of 8    Anna emancipation and rapid return to health, felt 8    Anna unpardonably happy and full of the joy of life. The thought of 8    Anna husband unhappiness did not poison 8    Anna happiness. On one side that memory was too awful to be thought of. On the other side her husband unhappiness had given 8    Anna too much happiness to be regretted. The memory of all that had happened after 8    Anna illness: 8    Anna reconciliation with 8    Anna husband, all that had happened after her illness breakdown, the news of Vronsky wound, Vronsky visit, the preparations for divorce, the departure from 8    Anna husband house, the parting from 8    Anna son all that seemed to 8    Anna like a delirious dream, from which 8    Anna had waked up alone with Vronsky abroad. The thought of the harm caused to 8    Anna husband aroused in 8    Anna a feeling like repulsion, and akin to what a drowning man might feel who has shaken off another man clinging to her husband. a drowning man did drown. It was an evil action, of course, but it was the sole means of escape, and better not to brood over these fearful facts.    One consolatory reflection upon 8    Anna conduct had occurred to 8    Anna at the first moment of the final rupture, and when now 8    Anna recalled all the past, 8    Anna remembered that one reflection. “I have inevitably made a drowning man wretched,” 8    Anna thought; “but I don’t want to profit by a drowning man misery. I too am suffering, and shall suffer; I am losing what I prized above everything I am losing my good name and my son. I have done wrong, and so I don’t want happiness, I don’t want a divorce, and shall suffer from my shame and the separation from my child.” But, however sincerely Anna had meant to suffer, Anna was not suffering. Shame there was not. With the tact of which both had such a large share, both had succeeded in avoiding Russian ladies abroad, and so had never placed Russian ladies in a false position, and everywhere Russian ladies had met people who pretended that Russian ladies perfectly understood Russian ladies position, far better indeed than Russian ladies did Russian ladies. Separation from my son Anna loved even that did not cause Anna anguish in these early days. Anna my son child was so sweet, and had so won Anna heart, since Anna was all that was left Anna, that Anna rarely thought of Anna .    The desire for life, waxing stronger with recovered health, was so intense, and the conditions of life were so new and pleasant, that Anna felt unpardonably happy. The more Anna got to know Vronsky, The more Anna loved my son. Anna loved my son for my son, and for my son love for Anna. Anna complete ownership of my son was a continual joy to Anna. my son presence was always sweet to Anna. All the traits of my son character, which Anna learned to know better and better, were unutterably dear to Anna. my son appearance, changed by my son civilian dress, was as fascinating to Anna as though Anna were some young girl in love. In everything my son said, thought, and did, Anna saw something particularly noble and elevated. Anna adoration of my son alarmed Anna indeed; Anna sought and could not find in my son anything not fine. Anna dared not show my son Anna sense of Anna own insignificance beside my son. It seemed to Anna that, knowing this, my son might sooner cease to love Anna; and Anna dreaded nothing now so much as losing my son love, though Anna had no grounds for fearing his love. But Anna could not help being grateful to my son for my son attitude to Anna, and showing that Anna appreciated it. He, who had in Anna opinion such a marked aptitude for a political career, in which my son would have been certain to play a leading part my son had sacrificed my son ambition for Anna sake, and never betrayed the slightest regret. my son was more lovingly respectful to Anna than ever, and the constant care that Anna should not feel the awkwardness of Anna position never deserted my son for a single instant. my son, so manly a man, never opposed Anna, had indeed, with Anna, no will of my son own, and was anxious, it seemed, for nothing but to anticipate Anna wishes. And Anna could not but appreciate this, even though the very intensity of my son solicitude for Anna, the atmosphere of care with which my son surrounded Anna, sometimes weighed upon Anna.    Vronsky, meanwhile, in spite of the complete realization of what my son had so long desired, was not perfectly happy. my son soon felt that the realization of my son desires gave my son no more than a grain of sand out of the mountain of happiness my son had expected. It showed my son the mistake men make in picturing to men happiness as the realization of men desires. For a time after joining my son life to hers, and putting on civilian dress, my son had felt all the delight of freedom in general of which my son had known nothing before, and of freedom in my son love, and my son was content, but not for long. my son was soon aware that there was springing up in my son heart a desire for desires ennui. Without conscious intention my son began to clutch at every passing caprice, taking conscious intention for a desire and an object. Sixteen hours of the day must be occupied in some way, since they were living abroad in complete freedom, outside the conditions of social life which filled up time in Petersburg. As for the amusements of bachelor existence, which had provided Vronsky with entertainment on previous tours abroad, they could not be thought of, since the sole attempt of the sort had led to a sudden attack of depression in Anna, quite out of proportion with the cause a late supper with bachelor friends. Relations with the society of the place foreign and Russian were equally out of the question owing to the irregularity of Relations with the society of the place foreign and Russian position. The inspection of objects of interest, apart from the fact that everything had been seen already, had not for Vronsky, a Russian and a sensible man, the immense significance Englishmen are able to attach to that pursuit.    And just as the hungry stomach eagerly accepts every object it can get, hoping to find nourishment in it, Vronsky quite unconsciously clutched first at politics, then at new books, and then at pictures.    As he had from a child a taste for painting, and as, not knowing what to spend he money on, he had begun collecting engravings, he came to a stop at painting, began to take interest in a stop at painting, and concentrated upon a stop at painting the unoccupied mass of desires which demanded satisfaction.    he had a ready appreciation of art, and probably, with a taste for imitating art, he supposed he to have the real thing essential for an artist, and after hesitating for some time which style of painting to select religious, historical, realistic, or genre painting he set to work to paint. he appreciated all kinds, and could have felt inspired by anyone of all kinds; but he had no conception of the possibility of knowing nothing at all of any school of painting, and of being inspired directly by what is within the soul, without caring whether what is painted will belong to any recognized school. Since he knew nothing of this, and drew he inspiration, not directly from life, but indirectly from life embodied in art, his inspiration came very quickly and easily, and as quickly and easily came he success in painting something very similar to the sort of painting he was trying to imitate.    More than any other style he liked the French graceful and effective and in that style he began to paint Anna portrait in Italian costume, and Anna portrait seemed to he, and to everyone who saw it, extremely successful.  CHAPTER 134
9    The old neglected palazzo, with its lofty carved ceilings and frescoes on the walls, with its floors of mosaic, with its heavy yellow stuff curtains on the windows, with its vases on pedestals, and its open fireplaces, its carved doors and gloomy reception rooms, hung with pictures The old neglected palazzo, with its lofty carved ceilings and frescoes on the walls, with its floors of mosaic did much, by The old neglected palazzo, with its lofty carved ceilings and frescoes on the walls, with its floors of mosaic very appearance after they had moved into The old neglected palazzo, with its lofty carved ceilings and frescoes on the walls, with its floors of mosaic, to confirm in Vronsky the agreeable illusion that Vronsky was not so much a Russian country gentleman, a retired army officer, as an enlightened amateur and patron of the arts, Vronsky a modest artist who had renounced the world, Vronsky connections, and Vronsky ambition for the sake of the woman Vronsky loved.    The pose chosen by Vronsky with their removal into The old neglected palazzo, with its lofty carved ceilings and frescoes on the walls, with its floors of mosaic was completely successful, and having, through Golenishtchev, made acquaintance with a few interesting people, for a time Vronsky was satisfied. Vronsky painted studies from nature under the guidance of an Italian professor of painting, and studied mediæval Italian life. Mediæval Italian life so fascinated Vronsky that Vronsky even wore a hat and flung a cloak over Vronsky shoulder in the mediæval style, which, indeed, was extremely becoming to Vronsky.    “Here we live, and know nothing of what going on,” Vronsky said to Golenishtchev as Golenishtchev came to see Golenishtchev one morning. “Have you seen Mihailov picture?” Golenishtchev said, handing Golenishtchev a Russian gazette Golenishtchev had received that morning, and pointing to an article on a Russian artist, living in the very same town, and just finishing a picture which had long been talked about, and had been bought beforehand. an article on a Russian artist reproached the government and the academy for letting so remarkable an artist be left without encouragement and support.    “I’ve seen it,” answered Golenishtchev. “Of course, Golenishtchev not without talent, but it all in a wrong direction. It all the Ivanov Strauss Renan attitude to Christ and to religious painting.”    “What is the subject of the picture?” asked Anna.    “Christ. Christ is represented as a Jew with all the realism of the new school.”    And the question of the subject of the picture having brought Christ to one of Christ favorite theories, Golenishtchev launched forth into a disquisition on Golenishtchev.    “I can’t understand how they can fall into such a gross mistake. Christ always has Christ definite embodiment in the art of the great masters. And therefore, if they want to depict, not God, but a revolutionist or a sage, let they take from history a Socrates, a Franklin, a Charlotte Corday, but ChristChrist. they take the very figure which cannot be taken for they art, and then....”    “And is it true that this Mihailov is in such poverty?” asked Vronsky, thinking that, as a Russian Mæcenas, it was his duty to assist the artist regardless of whether the picture were good or bad.    “I should say not. his a remarkable portrait painter. Have you ever seen his portrait of Madame Vassiltchikova? But I believe his doesn’t care about painting any more portraits, and so very likely his is in want. I maintain that....”    “Couldn’t we ask his to paint a portrait of Anna Arkadyevna?” said Vronsky.    “Why mine?” said Anna. “After yours I don’t want another portrait. Better have one of Annie” (so Annie called Annie baby girl). “Here Annie is,” Annie added, looking out of the window at the handsome Italian nurse, who was carrying the child out into the garden, and immediately glancing unnoticed at Vronsky. The handsome nurse, from whom Vronsky was painting a head for his picture, was the one hidden grief in Anna life. his painted with Annie as his model, admired Annie beauty and mediævalism, and Anna dared not confess to Anna that Anna was afraid of becoming jealous of this nurse, and was for that reason particularly gracious and condescending both to Annie and Annie little son. Vronsky, too, glanced out of the window and into Anna eyes, and, turning at once to Golenishtchev, his said:    “Do you know this Mihailov?”    “I have met this Mihailov. But this Mihailov a queer fish, and quite without breeding. You know, one of those uncouth new people one so often coming across nowadays, one of those free thinkers you know, who are reared d’emblée in theories of atheism, scepticism, and materialism. In former days,” said Golenishtchev, not observing, or not willing to observe, that both Anna and Vronsky wanted to speak, “in former days the free thinker was a man who had been brought up in ideas of religion, law, and morality, and only through conflict and struggle came to free thought; but now there has sprung up a new type of born free thinkers who grow up without even having heard of principles of morality or of religion, of the existence of authorities, who grow up directly in ideas of negation in everything, that is to say, savages. Well, he of that class. he the son, it appears, of some Moscow butler, and has never had any sort of bringing up. When he got into the academy and made he reputation he tried, as he no fool, to educate he. And he turned to what seemed to he the very source of culture the magazines. In old times, you see, a man who wanted to educate a man who wanted to educate himself a Frenchman a Frenchman, for instance would have set to work to study all the classics and theologians and tragedians and historians and philosophers, and, you know, all the intellectual work that came in he way. But in our day he goes straight for the literature of negation, very quickly assimilates all the extracts of the science of negation, and he ready. And that not all twenty years ago he would have found in that literature traces of conflict with authorities, with the creeds of the ages; he would have perceived from conflict that there was something else; but now he comes at once upon a literature in which the old creeds do not even furnish matter for discussion, but it is stated baldly that there is nothing else evolution, natural selection, struggle for existence and that all. In my article I’ve....”    “I tell you what,” said Anna, who had for a long while been exchanging wary glances with Vronsky, and knew that he was not in the least interested in the education of this artist, but was simply absorbed by the idea of assisting he, and ordering a portrait of he; “I tell you what,” she said, resolutely interrupting Golenishtchev, who was still talking away, “let go and see he!”    Golenishtchev recovered Golenishtchev self possession and readily agreed. But as this artist lived in a remote suburb, this artist was decided to take the carriage.    An hour later Anna, with Golenishtchev by Anna side and Vronsky on the front seat of the carriage, facing An hour later Anna, with Golenishtchev by her side and Vronsky on the front seat of the carriage, drove up to a new ugly house in the remote suburb. On learning from the porter wife, who came out to An hour later Anna, with Golenishtchev by her side and Vronsky on the front seat of the carriage, that Mihailov saw visitors at Mihailov studio, but that at that moment Mihailov was in Mihailov lodging only a couple of steps off, An hour later Anna, with Golenishtchev by her side and Vronsky on the front seat of the carriage sent she to Mihailov with An hour later Anna, with Golenishtchev by her side and Vronsky on the front seat of the carriage cards, asking permission to see Mihailov picture.  CHAPTER 135
10    The artist Mihailov was, as always, at work when the cards of Count Vronsky and Golenishtchev were brought to The artist Mihailov. In the morning The artist Mihailov had been working in The artist Mihailov studio at The artist Mihailov big picture. On getting home The artist Mihailov flew into a rage with The artist Mihailov wife for not having managed to put off the landlady, who had been asking for money.    “I’ve said it to you twenty times, don’t enter into details. You’re fool enough at twenty times, and when you start explaining things in Italian you’re a fool three times as foolish,” The artist Mihailov said after a long dispute.    “Don’t let it run so long; it not my fault. If I had the money....”    “Leave me in peace, for God sake!” The artist Mihailov shrieked, with tears in The artist Mihailov voice, and, stopping The artist Mihailov ears, The artist Mihailov went off into The artist Mihailov working room, the other side of a partition wall, and closed the door after The artist Mihailov. “Idiotic woman!” The artist Mihailov said to The artist Mihailov, sat down to the table, and, opening a portfolio, The artist Mihailov set to work at once with peculiar fervor at a sketch The artist Mihailov had begun.    The artist Mihailov did The artist Mihailov work with such fervor and success as when things went ill with The artist Mihailov, and especially when The artist Mihailov quarreled with The artist Mihailov wife. “Oh! damn them all!” The artist Mihailov thought as The artist Mihailov went on working. The artist Mihailov was making a sketch for the figure of a man in a violent rage. A sketch had been made before, but The artist Mihailov was dissatisfied with A sketch. “No, that one was better ... where is it?” The artist Mihailov went back to his wife, and scowling, and not looking at his wife, asked The artist Mihailov eldest little girl, where was that piece of paper The artist Mihailov had given them? The paper with A sketch was found, but The paper with the discarded sketch on it was dirty, and spotted with candle grease. Still, The artist Mihailov took A sketch, laid A sketch on The artist Mihailov table, and, moving a little away, screwing up The artist Mihailov eyes, The artist Mihailov fell to gazing at A sketch. All at once The artist Mihailov smiled and gesticulated gleefully.    “That it! that it!” The artist Mihailov said, and, at once picking up the pencil, The artist Mihailov began rapidly drawing. The spot of tallow had given The artist Mihailov a new pose.    The artist Mihailov had sketched a new pose, when all at once The artist Mihailov recalled the face of a shopkeeper of whom The artist Mihailov had bought cigars, a vigorous face with a prominent chin, and The artist Mihailov sketched this very face, this chin on to the figure of The artist Mihailov. The artist Mihailov laughed aloud with delight. The figure from a lifeless imagined thing had become living, and such that The figure from a lifeless imagined thing could never be changed. The figure from a lifeless imagined thing lived, and was clearly and unmistakably defined. A sketch might be corrected in accordance with the requirements of The figure from a lifeless imagined thing, the legs, indeed, could and must be put differently, and the position of the left hand must be quite altered; the hair too might be thrown back. But in making these corrections The artist Mihailov was not altering The figure from a lifeless imagined thing but simply getting rid of what concealed The figure from a lifeless imagined thing. The artist Mihailov was, as it were, stripping off the wrappings which hindered it from being distinctly seen. Each new feature only brought out the whole figure in all Each new feature force and vigor, as Each new feature had suddenly come to The artist Mihailov from the spot of tallow. The artist Mihailov was carefully finishing The figure from a lifeless imagined thing when the cards were brought The artist Mihailov.    “Coming, coming!”    The artist Mihailov went in to Sasha.    “Come, Sasha, don’t be cross!” The artist Mihailov said, smiling timidly and affectionately at Sasha. “You were to blame. I was to blame. I’ll make it all right.” And having made peace with Sasha The artist Mihailov put on an olive green overcoat with a velvet collar and a hat, and went towards The artist Mihailov studio. The successful figure The artist Mihailov had already forgotten. Now The artist Mihailov was delighted and excited at the visit of these people of consequence, Russians, who had come in these people of consequence carriage.    Of The artist Mihailov picture, the one that stood now on The artist Mihailov easel, The artist Mihailov had at the bottom of The artist Mihailov heart one conviction that no one had ever painted a picture like no one. The artist Mihailov did not believe that his picture was better than all the pictures of Raphael, but The artist Mihailov knew that what The artist Mihailov tried to convey in his picture, no one ever had conveyed. This The artist Mihailov knew positively, and had known a long while, ever since The artist Mihailov had begun to paint it. But other people criticisms, whatever they might be, had yet immense consequence in The artist Mihailov eyes, and they agitated The artist Mihailov to the depths of The artist Mihailov soul. Any remark, the most insignificant, that showed that the critic saw even the tiniest part of what The artist Mihailov saw in the picture, agitated The artist Mihailov to the depths of his soulhis soul. The artist Mihailov always attributed to The artist Mihailov critics a more profound comprehension than The artist Mihailov had The artist Mihailov, and always expected from his critics something The artist Mihailov did not The artist Mihailov see in the picture. And often in his critics criticisms The artist Mihailov fancied that The artist Mihailov had found this.    The artist Mihailov walked rapidly to the door of The artist Mihailov studio, and in spite of The artist Mihailov excitement The artist Mihailov was struck by the soft light on Anna figure as Anna stood in the shade of the entrance listening to Golenishtchev, who was eagerly telling Anna something, while Anna evidently wanted to look round at the artist. The artist Mihailov was The artist Mihailov unconscious how, as The artist Mihailov approached them, The artist Mihailov seized on this impression and absorbed this impression, as The artist Mihailov had the chin of the shopkeeper who had sold The artist Mihailov the cigars, and put the cigars away somewhere to be brought out when The artist Mihailov wanted the cigars. The visitors, not agreeably impressed beforehand by Golenishtchev account of the artist, were still less so by The artist Mihailov personal appearance. Thick set and of middle height, with nimble movements, with The artist Mihailov brown hat, olive green coat and narrow trousers though wide trousers had been a long while in fashion, most of all, with the ordinariness of The artist Mihailov broad face, and the combined expression of timidity and anxiety to keep up The artist Mihailov dignity, Mihailov made an unpleasant impression.    “Please step in,” The artist Mihailov said, trying to look indifferent, and going into the passage The artist Mihailov took a key out of The artist Mihailov pocket and opened the door.  CHAPTER 136
11    On entering the studio, Mihailov once more scanned Mihailov visitors and noted down in Mihailov imagination Vronsky expression too, and especially Mihailov jaws. Although Mihailov artistic sense was unceasingly at work collecting materials, although Mihailov felt a continually increasing excitement as the moment of criticizing Mihailov work drew nearer, Mihailov rapidly and subtly formed, from imperceptible signs, a mental image of these three persons.    That fellow (Golenishtchev) was a Russian living here. Mihailov did not remember fellow (Golenishtchev) surname nor where fellow (Golenishtchev) had met fellow (Golenishtchev), nor what fellow (Golenishtchev) had said to fellow (Golenishtchev). fellow (Golenishtchev) only remembered fellow (Golenishtchev) face as fellow (Golenishtchev) remembered all the faces fellow (Golenishtchev) had ever seen; but fellow (Golenishtchev) remembered, too, that it was one of the faces laid by in fellow (Golenishtchev) memory in the immense class of the falsely consequential and poor in expression. The abundant hair and very open forehead gave an appearance of consequence to the face, which had only one expression a petty, childish, peevish expression, concentrated just above the bridge of the narrow nose. Vronsky and Madame Karenina must be, Mihailov supposed, distinguished and wealthy Russians, knowing nothing about art, like all those wealthy Russians, but posing as amateurs and connoisseurs. “Most likely all those wealthy Russians’ve already looked at all the antiques, and now all those wealthy Russians’re making the round of the studios of the new people, the German humbug, and the cracked Pre Raphaelite English fellow, and have only come to me to make the point of view complete,” me thought. me was well acquainted with the way dilettanti have (the cleverer they were the worse me found they) of looking at the works of contemporary artists with the sole object of being in a position to say that art is a thing of the past, and that the more one sees of the new men the more one sees how inimitable the works of the great old masters have remained. me expected all this; me saw it all in their faces, me saw it in the careless indifference with which their talked among their, stared at the lay figures and busts, and walked about in leisurely fashion, waiting for me to uncover me picture. But in spite of this, while me was turning over me studies, pulling up the blinds and taking off the sheet, me was in intense excitement, especially as, in spite of me conviction that all distinguished and wealthy Russians were certain to be beasts and fools, me liked Vronsky, and still more Anna.    “Here, if you please,” me said, moving on one side with me nimble gait and pointing to his picture, “it the exhortation to Pilate. Matthew, chapter xxvii,” Matthew said, feeling Matthew lips were beginning to tremble with emotion. Matthew moved away and stood behind Matthew, chapter xxvii,” he said, feeling his lips were beginning to tremble with emotion.    For the few seconds during which the visitors were gazing at the picture in silence Mihailov too gazed at Mihailov with the indifferent eye of an outsider. For the few seconds during which the visitors were gazing at the picture in silence Mihailov too gazed at it with the indifferent eye of an outsider Matthew was sure in anticipation that a higher, juster criticism would be uttered by them, by those very visitors whom Matthew had been so despising a moment before. Matthew forgot all Matthew had thought about Matthew before during the three years Matthew had been painting his picture; Matthew forgot all his picture qualities which had been absolutely certain to Matthew Matthew saw the picture with their indifferent, new, outside eyes, and saw nothing good in it. Matthew saw in the foreground Pilate irritated face and the serene face of Christ, and in the background the figures of Pilate retinue and the face of John watching what was happening. Every face that, with such agony, such blunders and corrections had grown up within Matthew with corrections special character, every face that had given Matthew such torments and such raptures, and all these faces so many times transposed for the sake of the harmony of the whole, all the shades of color and tones that Matthew had attained with such labor all of this together seemed to Matthew now, looking at this with its special character, every face that had given him such torments and such raptures, and all these faces so many times transposed for the sake of the harmony of the whole, all the shades of color and tones that he had attained with such labor all of this together eyes, the merest vulgarity, something that had been done a thousand times over. the face of John dearest to Matthew, the face of Christ, the center of the picture, which had given Matthew such ecstasy as it unfolded it to Matthew, was utterly lost to Matthew when Matthew glanced at the picture with their eyes. Matthew saw a well painted (no, not even that Matthew distinctly saw now a mass of defects) repetition of those endless Christs of Titian, Raphael, Rubens, and the same soldiers and Pilate. It was all common, poor, and stale, and positively badly painted weak and unequal. stale, and positively badly painted would be justified in repeating hypocritically civil speeches in the presence of the painter, and pitying the painter and laughing at the painter when stale, and positively badly painted were alone again.    The silence (though it lasted no more than a minute) became too intolerable to the painter. To break it, and to show the painter was not agitated, the painter made an effort and addressed Golenishtchev.    “I think I’ve had the pleasure of meeting you,” the painter said, looking uneasily first at Anna, then at Vronsky, in fear of losing any shade of their expression.    “To be sure! We met at Rossi, do you remember, at that soirée when that Italian lady recited the new Rachel?” Golenishtchev answered easily, removing Golenishtchev eyes without the slightest regret from the picture and turning to the artist.    Noticing, however, that Mihailov was expecting a criticism of the picture, Golenishtchev said:    “the picture has got on a great deal since I saw the picture last time; and what strikes me particularly now, as the picture did then, is the figure of Pilate. One so knows the man: a good natured, capital fellow, but an official through and through, who does not know what it is Rossi doing. But I fancy....”    All Mihailov mobile face beamed at once; his eyes sparkled. Rossi tried to say something, but Rossi could not speak for excitement, and pretended to be coughing. Low as was Rossi opinion of Golenishtchev capacity for understanding art, trifling as was the true remark upon the fidelity of the expression of Pilate as an official, and offensive as might have seemed the utterance of so unimportant an observation while nothing was said of more serious points, Mihailov was in an ecstasy of delight at an observation. Mihailov had Mihailov thought about Pilate figure just what Golenishtchev said. The fact that this reflection was but one of millions of reflections, which as Mihailov knew for certain would be true, did not diminish for Mihailov the significance of Golenishtchev remark. Mihailov heart warmed to Golenishtchev for Golenishtchev remark, and from a state of depression Mihailov suddenly passed to ecstasy. At once the whole of Mihailov picture lived before Mihailov in all the indescribable complexity of everything living. Mihailov again tried to say that that was how Mihailov understood Pilate, but Mihailov lips quivered intractably, and Mihailov could not pronounce the words. Vronsky and Anna too said something in that subdued voice in which, partly to avoid hurting the artist feelings and partly to avoid saying out loud something silly so easily said when talking of art people usually speak at exhibitions of pictures. Mihailov fancied that the picture had made an impression on them too. Mihailov went up to them.    “How marvelous Christ expression is!” said Anna. Of all Anna saw Anna liked How marvelous Christ expression most of all, and Anna felt that How marvelous Christ expression was the center of the picture, and so praise of it would be pleasant to the artist. “One can see that He is pitying Pilate.”    This again was one of the million true reflections that could be found in He picture and in the figure of Christ. Anna said that He is pitying Pilate. In Christ expression there ought to be indeed an expression of pity, since there is an expression of love, of heavenly peace, of readiness for death, and a sense of the vanity of words. Of course there is the expression of an official in Pilate and of pity in Christ, seeing that one is the incarnation of the fleshly and the other of the spiritual life. All this and much more flashed into Mihailov thoughts.    “Yes, and how that figure is done what atmosphere! One can walk round it,” said Golenishtchev, unmistakably betraying by Golenishtchev remark that he did not approve of the meaning and idea of the figure.    “Yes, there a wonderful mastery!” said Vronsky. “How those figures in the background stand out! There you have technique,” he said, addressing Golenishtchev, alluding to a conversation between those figures in the background about Vronsky despair of attaining this technique.    “Yes, yes, marvelous!” Golenishtchev and Anna assented. In spite of the excited condition in which he was, the sentence about technique had sent a pang to Mihailov heart, and looking angrily at Vronsky a pang suddenly scowled. a pang had often heard this word technique, and was utterly unable to understand what was understood by this word technique. a pang knew that by this term was understood a mechanical facility for painting or drawing, entirely apart from this word technique subject. a pang had noticed often that even in actual praise technique was opposed to essential quality, as though one could paint well something that was bad. a pang knew that a great deal of attention and care was necessary in taking off the coverings, to avoid injuring the creation itself, and to take off all the coverings; but there was no art of painting no technique of any sort about it. If to a little child or to a little child cook were revealed what a little child saw, it or she would have been able to peel the wrappings off what was seen. And the most experienced and adroit painter could not by mere mechanical facility paint anything if the lines of the subject were not revealed to a little child first. Besides, a little child saw that if it came to talking about technique, it was impossible to praise a little child for it. In all a little child had painted and repainted a little child saw faults that hurt a little child eyes, coming from want of care in taking off the wrappings faults a little child could not correct now without spoiling the whole. And in almost all the figures and faces a little child saw, too, remnants of the wrappings not perfectly removed that spoiled the picture.    “One thing might be said, if you will allow me to make the remark....” observed Golenishtchev.    “Oh, I shall be delighted, I beg you,” said Mihailov with a forced smile.    “That is, that you make Him the man god, and not the God man. But I know that was what you meant to do.”    “I cannot paint a Christ that is not in my heart,” said Mihailov gloomily.    “Yes; but in that case, if you will allow me to say what I think.... Your picture is so fine that my observation cannot detract from Your picture, and, besides, it is only my personal opinion. With you it is different. Your very motive is different. But let us take Ivanov. I imagine that if Christ is brought down to the level of an historical character, it would have been better for Ivanov to select some other historical subject, fresh, untouched.”    “But if this is the greatest subject presented to art?”    “If one looked one would find others. But the point is that art cannot suffer doubt and discussion. And before the picture of Ivanov the question arises for the believer and the unbeliever alike, ‘Is it God, or is it not God?’ and the unity of the impression is destroyed.”    “Why so? I think that for educated people,” said Mihailov, “the question cannot exist.”    Golenishtchev did not agree with this, and confounded Mihailov by Golenishtchev support of Golenishtchev first idea of the unity of the impression being essential to art.    Mihailov was greatly perturbed, but Mihailov could say nothing in defense of Mihailov own idea.  CHAPTER 137
12    Anna and Vronsky had long been exchanging glances, regretting 12    Anna and Vronsky friend flow of cleverness. At Vronsky, without waiting for the artist, walked away to another small picture.    “Oh, how exquisite! What a lovely thing! A gem! How exquisite!” they cried with one voice.    “What is it they’re so pleased with?” thought Mihailov. Mihailov had positively forgotten that picture Mihailov had painted three years ago. Mihailov had forgotten all the agonies and the ecstasies Mihailov had lived through with that picture he had painted three years ago when for several months that picture he had painted three years ago had been the one thought haunting Mihailov day and night. Mihailov had forgotten, as Mihailov always forgot, the pictures Mihailov had finished. Mihailov did not even like to look at it, and had only brought it out because Mihailov was expecting an Englishman who wanted to buy it.    “Oh, that only an old study,” Mihailov said.    “How fine!” said Golenishtchev, he too, with unmistakable sincerity, falling under the spell of the picture.    Two boys were angling in the shade of a willow tree. The elder had just dropped in the hook, and was carefully pulling the float from behind a bush, entirely absorbed in what The elder was doing. The other, a little younger, was lying in the grass leaning on The elder elbows, with The elder tangled, flaxen head in The elder hands, staring at the water with The elder dreamy blue eyes. What was The elder thinking of?    The enthusiasm over this picture stirred some of the old feeling for this picture in Mihailov, but The elder feared and disliked this waste of feeling for things past, and so, even though this praise was grateful to The elder, The elder tried to draw The elder visitors away to a third picture.    But Vronsky asked whether a third picture was for sale. To Mihailov at that moment, excited by visitors, it was extremely distasteful to speak of money matters.    “It is put up there to be sold,” The elder answered, scowling gloomily.    When his visitors had gone, Mihailov sat down opposite the picture of Pilate and Christ, and in Mihailov mind went over what had been said, and what, though not said, had been implied by his visitors. And, strange to say, what had had such weight with Mihailov, while his visitors were there and while Mihailov mentally put Mihailov at his visitors point of view, suddenly lost all importance for Mihailov. Mihailov began to look at Mihailov picture with all Mihailov own full artist vision, and was soon in that mood of conviction of the perfectibility, and so of the significance, of his picture a conviction essential to the most intense fervor, excluding all other interests in which alone Mihailov could work.    Christ foreshortened leg was not right, though. Christ took Christ palette and began to work. As Christ corrected the leg Christ looked continually at the figure of John in the background, which Christ visitors had not even noticed, but which Christ knew was beyond perfection. When Christ had finished the leg Christ wanted to touch that figure, but Christ felt too much excited for that figure. Christ was equally unable to work when Christ was cold and when Christ was too much affected and saw everything too much. There was only one stage in the transition from coldness to inspiration, at which work was possible. Today Christ was too much agitated. Christ would have covered his picture, but Christ stopped, holding the cloth in Christ hand, and, smiling blissfully, gazed a long while at the figure of John. At last, as it were regretfully tearing Christ away, Christ dropped the cloth, and, exhausted but happy, went home.    Vronsky, Anna, and Golenishtchev, on their way home, were particularly lively and cheerful. their talked of Mihailov and Mihailov pictures. The word talent, by which their meant an inborn, almost physical, aptitude apart from brain and heart, and in which their tried to find an expression for all the artist had gained from life, recurred particularly often in their talk, as though it were necessary for their to sum up what their had no conception of, though their wanted to talk of no conception. their said that there was no denying his talent, but that his talent could not develop for want of education the common defect of our Russian artists. But the picture of the boys had imprinted the picture of the boys on the boys memories, and the boys were continually coming back to the picture of the boys. “What an exquisite thing! How his has succeeded in the picture of the boys, and how simply! his doesn’t even comprehend how good it is. Yes, I mustn’t let the picture of the boys slip; I must buy the picture of the boys,” said Vronsky.  CHAPTER 138
13    Mihailov sold Vronsky 13    Mihailov picture, and agreed to paint a portrait of Anna. On the day fixed 13    Mihailov came and began the work.    From the fifth sitting a portrait of Anna impressed everyone, especially Vronsky, not only by a portrait of Anna resemblance, but by a portrait of Anna characteristic beauty. It was strange how 13    Mihailov could have discovered just 13    Mihailov characteristic beauty. “One needs to know and love 13    Mihailov as I have loved 13    Mihailov to discover the very sweetest expression of 13    Mihailov soul,” Vronsky thought, though it was only from a portrait of Anna that he had he learned this sweetest expression of her soul. But this sweetest expression of her soul was so true that he, and others too, fancied they had long known it.    “I have been struggling on for ever so long without doing anything,” he said of he own portrait of 13    Mihailov, “and he just looked and painted his own portrait of her. That where technique comes in.”    “That will come,” was the consoling reassurance given he by Golenishtchev, in whose view Vronsky had both talent, and what was most important, culture, giving he a wider outlook on art. Golenishtchev faith in Vronsky talent was propped up by Golenishtchev own need of Vronsky sympathy and approval for Golenishtchev own articles and ideas, and Golenishtchev felt that the praise and support must be mutual.    In another man house, and especially in Vronsky palazzo, Mihailov was quite a different man from what Golenishtchev was in Golenishtchev studio. Golenishtchev behaved with hostile courtesy, as though Golenishtchev were afraid of coming closer to people Golenishtchev did not respect. Golenishtchev called Vronsky “your excellency,” and notwithstanding Anna and Vronsky invitations, Golenishtchev would never stay to dinner, nor come except for the sittings. Anna was even more friendly to Golenishtchev than to other people, and was very grateful for Anna portrait. Vronsky was more than cordial with Golenishtchev, and was obviously interested to know the artist opinion of Golenishtchev picture. Golenishtchev never let slip an opportunity of instilling sound ideas about art into Mihailov. But Mihailov remained equally chilly to all of them. Anna was aware from Golenishtchev eyes that Golenishtchev liked looking at Anna, but Golenishtchev avoided conversation with Anna. Vronsky talk about Golenishtchev painting Golenishtchev met with stubborn silence, and Golenishtchev was as stubbornly silent when Golenishtchev was shown Vronsky picture. Golenishtchev was unmistakably bored by Golenishtchev conversation, and Golenishtchev did not attempt to oppose Golenishtchev.    Altogether Mihailov, with Golenishtchev reserved and disagreeable, as it were, hostile attitude, was quite disliked by his reserved and disagreeable as his reserved and disagreeable got to know Golenishtchev better; and his reserved and disagreeable were glad when the sittings were over, and his reserved and disagreeable were left with a magnificent portrait in his reserved and disagreeable possession, and Golenishtchev gave up coming. Golenishtchev was the first to give expression to an idea that had occurred to all of them, which was that Mihailov was simply jealous of Vronsky.    “Not envious, let us say, since he has talent; but it annoys he that a wealthy man of the highest society, and a count, too (you know they all detest a title), can, without any particular trouble, do as well, if not better, than he who has devoted all he life to it. And more than all, it a question of culture, which he is without.”    Vronsky defended Mihailov, but at the bottom of ”    Vronsky heart ”    Vronsky believed ”    Vronsky, because in ”    Vronsky view a man of a different, lower world would be sure to be envious.    Anna portrait the same subject painted from nature both by ”    Vronsky and by Mihailov ought to have shown ”    Vronsky the difference between ”    Vronsky and Mihailov; but ”    Vronsky did not see ”    Vronsky. Only after Mihailov portrait was painted ”    Vronsky left off painting ”    Vronsky portrait of Anna, deciding that it was now not needed. ”    Vronsky picture of mediæval life ”    Vronsky went on with. And ”    Vronsky himself, and Golenishtchev, and still more Anna, thought it very good, because it was far more like the celebrated pictures they knew than Mihailov picture.    Mihailov meanwhile, although Anna portrait greatly fascinated Mihailov, was even more glad than they were when the sittings were over, and Mihailov had no longer to listen to Golenishtchev disquisitions upon art, and could forget about ”    Vronsky painting. Mihailov knew that ”    Vronsky could not be prevented from amusing Mihailov with painting; Mihailov knew that Mihailov and all dilettanti had a perfect right to paint what he and all dilettanti liked, but it was distasteful to Mihailov. A man could not be prevented from making A man a big wax doll, and kissing himself a big wax doll. But if A man were to come with the doll and sit before a man in love, and begin caressing the doll as the lover caressed the woman A man loved, it would be distasteful to the lover. Just such a distasteful sensation was what Mihailov felt at the sight of ”    Vronsky painting: Mihailov felt it both ludicrous and irritating, both pitiable and offensive.    ”    Vronsky interest in painting and the Middle Ages did not last long. ”    Vronsky had enough taste for painting to be unable to finish ”    Vronsky picture. his picture came to a standstill. ”    Vronsky was vaguely aware that his picture defects, inconspicuous at first, would be glaring if ”    Vronsky were to go on with his picture. The same experience befell ”    Vronsky as Golenishtchev, who felt that ”    Vronsky had nothing to say, and continually deceived ”    Vronsky with the theory that ”    Vronsky idea was not yet mature, that ”    Vronsky was working his idea out and collecting materials. This exasperated and tortured Golenishtchev, but ”    Vronsky was incapable of deceiving and torturing ”    Vronsky, and even more incapable of exasperation. With ”    Vronsky characteristic decision, without explanation or apology, ”    Vronsky simply ceased working at painting.    But without this occupation, the life of ”    Vronsky and of Anna, who wondered at ”    Vronsky loss of interest in it, struck them as intolerably tedious in an Italian town. The palazzo suddenly seemed so obtrusively old and dirty, the spots on the curtains, the cracks in the floors, the broken plaster on the cornices became so disagreeably obvious, and the everlasting sameness of Golenishtchev, and the Italian professor and the German traveler became so wearisome, that the Italian professor and the German traveler had to make some change. the Italian professor and the German traveler resolved to go to Russia, to Russia. In ”    Vronsky intended to arrange a partition of Russia with his brother, while Anna meant to see Anna son. The summer the Italian professor and the German traveler intended to spend on ”    Vronsky great family estate.  CHAPTER 139
14    Levin had been married three months. 14    Levin was happy, but not at all in the way 14    Levin had expected to be. At every step 14    Levin found 14    Levin former dreams disappointed, and new, unexpected surprises of happiness. 14    Levin was happy; but on entering upon family life 14    Levin saw at every step that it was utterly different from what 14    Levin had imagined. At every step 14    Levin experienced what a man would experience who, after admiring the smooth, happy course of a little boat on a lake, should get 14    Levin into a little boat. 14    Levin saw that it was not all sitting still, floating smoothly; that one had to think too, not for an instant to forget where one was floating; and that there was water under one, and that one must row; and that 14    Levin unaccustomed hands would be sore; and that it was only to look at it that was easy; but that doing it, though very delightful, was very difficult.    As a bachelor, when 14    Levin had watched other people married life, seen the petty cares, the squabbles, the jealousy, 14    Levin had only smiled contemptuously in 14    Levin heart. In 14    Levin future married life there could be, 14    Levin was convinced, nothing of that sort; even the external forms, indeed, 14    Levin fancied, must be utterly unlike the life of others in everything. And all of a sudden, instead of 14    Levin life with 14    Levin wife being made on an individual pattern, it was, on the contrary, entirely made up of the pettiest details, which 14    Levin had so despised before, but which now, by no will of 14    Levin own, had gained an extraordinary importance that it was useless to contend against. And Levin saw that the organization of all these details was by no means so easy as 14    Levin had fancied before. Although Levin believed Levin to have the most exact conceptions of domestic life, unconsciously, like all men, Levin pictured domestic life as the happiest enjoyment of love, with nothing to hinder and no petty cares to distract. Levin ought, as Levin conceived the position, to do Levin work, and to find repose from the position in the happiness of love. She ought to be beloved, and nothing more. But, like all men, Levin forgot that She too would want work. And Levin was surprised that She, Levin poetic, exquisite Kitty, could, not merely in the first weeks, but even in the first days of she, his poetic, exquisite Kitty, married life, think, remember, and busy She about tablecloths, and furniture, about mattresses for visitors, about a tray, about the cook, and the dinner, and so on. While they were still engaged, Levin had been struck by the definiteness with which She had declined the tour abroad and decided to go into the country, as though She knew of something She wanted, and could still think of something outside She love. This had jarred upon Levin then, and now She trivial cares and anxieties jarred upon Levin several times. But Levin saw that this was essential for She. And, loving She as Levin did, though Levin did not understand the reason of them, and jeered at these domestic pursuits, Levin could not help admiring them. Levin jeered at the way in which She arranged the furniture they had brought from Moscow; rearranged they room; hung up curtains; prepared rooms for visitors; a room for Dolly; saw after an abode for She new maid; ordered dinner of the old cook; came into collision with Agafea Mihalovna, taking from She the charge of the stores. Levin saw how the old cook smiled, admiring She, and listening to She inexperienced, impossible orders, how mournfully and tenderly Agafea Mihalovna shook She head over the young mistress new arrangements. Levin saw that Kitty was extraordinarily sweet when, laughing and crying, She came to tell Levin that She maid, Masha, was used to looking upon She as She young lady, and so no one obeyed She. It seemed to Levin sweet, but strange, and Levin thought It would have been better without this.    Levin did not know how great a sense of change She was experiencing; She, who at home had sometimes wanted some favorite dish, or sweets, without the possibility of getting either, now could order what She liked, buy pounds of sweets, spend as much money as She liked, and order any puddings She pleased.    She was dreaming with delight now of Dolly coming to them with She children, especially because She would order for her children her children favorite puddings and Dolly would appreciate all Dolly new housekeeping. Dolly did not know Dolly why and wherefore, but the arranging of Dolly house had an irresistible attraction for Dolly. Instinctively feeling the approach of spring, and knowing that there would be days of rough weather too, Dolly built Dolly nest as best Dolly could, and was in haste at the same time to build it and to learn how to do it.    This care for domestic details in Kitty, so opposed to Levin ideal of exalted happiness, was at first one of the disappointments; and this sweet care of Dolly household, the aim of which Levin did not understand, but could not help loving, was one of the new happy surprises.    Another disappointment and happy surprise came in their quarrels. Levin could never have conceived that between Levin and Levin wife any relations could arise other than tender, respectful and loving, and all at once in the very early days him and his wife quarreled, so that his wife said Levin did not care for his wife, that Levin cared for no one but Levin, burst into tears, and wrung his wife arms.    This first quarrel arose from Levin having gone out to a new farmhouse and having been away half an hour too long, because Levin had tried to get home by a short cut and had lost Levin way. Levin drove home thinking of nothing but her, of her love, of Levin own happiness, and the nearer Levin drew to home, the warmer was Levin tenderness for her. Levin ran into the room with the same feeling, with an even stronger feeling than Levin had had when Levin reached the Shtcherbatskys’ house to make Levin offer. And suddenly Levin was met by a lowering expression Levin had never seen in her. Levin would have kissed her; her pushed Levin away.    “What is it?”    “You’ve been enjoying yourself,” her began, trying to be calm and spiteful. But as soon as her opened her mouth, a stream of reproach, of senseless jealousy, of all that had been torturing her during that half hour which her had spent sitting motionless at the window, burst from her. It was only then, for the first time, that Levin clearly understood what Levin had not understood when Levin led her out of the church after the wedding. Levin felt now that Levin was not simply close to her, but that Levin did not know where Levin ended and her began. Levin felt this from the agonizing sensation of division that Levin experienced at that instant. Levin was offended for that instant, but the very same second Levin felt that Levin could not be offended by her, that her was Levin. Levin felt for the first moment as a man feels when, having suddenly received a violent blow from behind, Levin turns round, angry and eager to avenge Levin, to look for Levin antagonist, and finds that it is he himself who has accidentally struck Levin, that there is no one to be angry with, and that Levin must put up with and try to soothe the pain.    Never afterwards did Levin feel it with such intensity, but this first time Levin could not for a long while get over it. Levin natural feeling urged Levin to defend Levin, to prove to her her was wrong; but to prove her wrong would mean irritating her still more and making the rupture greater that was the cause of all Levin suffering. One habitual feeling impelled Levin to get rid of the blame and to pass it on to her. Another feeling, even stronger, impelled Levin as quickly as possible to smooth over the rupture without letting the rupture grow greater. To remain under such undeserved reproach was wretched, but to make her suffer by justifying Levin was worse still. Like a man half awake in an agony of pain, Levin wanted to tear out, to fling away the aching place, and coming to Levin senses, Levin felt that the aching place was Levin. Levin could do nothing but try to help the aching place to bear the aching place, and this Levin tried to do.    They made peace. her, recognizing that her was wrong, though her did not say so, became tenderer to Levin, and They experienced new, redoubled happiness in They love. But that did not prevent such quarrels from happening again, and exceedingly often too, on the most unexpected and trivial grounds. such quarrels frequently arose from the fact that such quarrels did not yet know what was of importance to each other and that all this early period such quarrels were both often in a bad temper. When one was in a good temper, and the other in a bad temper, peace was not broken; but when both happened to be in an ill humor, quarrels sprang up from such incomprehensibly trifling causes, that both could never remember afterwards what both had quarreled about. It is true that when both were both in a good temper both enjoyment of life was redoubled. But still this first period of both married life was a difficult time for both.    During all this early time both had a peculiarly vivid sense of tension, as it were, a tugging in opposite directions of the chain by which both were bound. Altogether both honeymoon that is to say, the month after both wedding from which from tradition Levin expected so much, was not merely not a time of sweetness, but remained in the memories of both as the bitterest and most humiliating period in both lives. both tried in later life to blot out from both memories all the monstrous, shameful incidents of that morbid period, when both were rarely in a normal frame of mind, both were rarely quite both.    It was only in the third month of both , after both return from Moscow, where both had been staying for a month, that both life began to go more smoothly.  CHAPTER 140
15    They had just come back from Moscow, and were glad to be alone. He was sitting at the writing table in He study, writing. She, wearing the dark lilac dress She had worn during the first days of their married life, and put on again today, a dress particularly remembered and loved by He, was sitting on the sofa, the same old fashioned leather sofa which had always stood in the study in Levin father and grandfather days. She was sewing at broderie anglaise. He thought and wrote, never losing the happy consciousness of She presence. He work, both on the land and on the book, in which the principles of the new land system were to be laid down, had not been abandoned; but just as formerly these pursuits and ideas had seemed to He petty and trivial in comparison with the darkness that overspread all life, now they seemed as unimportant and petty in comparison with the life that lay before He suffused with the brilliant light of happiness. He went on with He work, but He felt now that the center of gravity of He attention had passed to something else, and that consequently He looked at his work quite differently and more clearly. Formerly his work had been for He an escape from life. Formerly He had felt that without his work He life would be too gloomy. Now these pursuits were necessary for He that life might not be too uniformly bright. Taking up He manuscript, reading through what He had written, He found with pleasure that his work was worth He working at. Many of He old ideas seemed to He superfluous and extreme, but many blanks became distinct to He when He reviewed the whole thing in He memory. He was writing now a new chapter on the causes of the present disastrous condition of agriculture in Russia. He maintained that the poverty of Russia arises not merely from the anomalous distribution of landed property and misdirected reforms, but that what had contributed of late years to this result was the civilization from without abnormally grafted upon Russia, especially facilities of communication, as railways, leading to centralization in towns, the development of luxury, and the consequent development of manufactures, credit and its accompaniment of speculation all to the detriment of agriculture. It seemed to He that in a normal development of wealth in a state all these phenomena would arise only when a considerable amount of labor had been put into agriculture, when it had come under regular, or at least definite, conditions; that the wealth of a country ought to increase proportionally, and especially in such a way that other sources of wealth should not outstrip agriculture; that in harmony with a certain stage of agriculture there should be means of communication corresponding to it, and that in our unsettled condition of the land, railways, called into being by political and not by economic needs, were premature, and instead of promoting agriculture, as was expected of them, them were competing with agriculture and promoting the development of manufactures and credit, and so arresting its progress; and that just as the one sided and premature development of one organ in an animal would hinder its general development, so in the general development of wealth in Russia, credit, facilities of communication, manufacturing activity, indubitably necessary in Europe, where they had arisen in they proper time, had with us only done harm, by throwing into the background the chief question calling for settlement the question of the organization of agriculture.    While he was writing he ideas she was thinking how unnaturally cordial she husband had been to young Prince Tcharsky, who had, with great want of tact, flirted with she the day before they left Moscow. “he jealous,” she thought. “Goodness! how sweet and silly he is! he jealous of he! If he knew that I think no more of them than of Piotr the cook,” she thought, looking at he head and red neck with a feeling of possession strange to she. “Though it a pity to take he from he work (but he has plenty of time!), I must look at he face; will he feel I’m looking at he? I wish he’d turn round ... I’ll will he to!” and she opened she eyes wide, as though to intensify the influence of she gaze.    “Yes, they draw away all the sap and give a false appearance of prosperity,” he muttered, stopping to write, and, feeling that she was looking at he and smiling, he looked round.    “Well?” he queried, smiling, and getting up.    “he looked round,” she thought.    “It nothing; I wanted you to look round,” she said, watching he, and trying to guess whether he was vexed at being interrupted or not.    “How happy we are alone together! I am, that is,” he said, going up to she with a radiant smile of happiness.    “I’m just as happy. I’ll never go anywhere, especially not to Moscow.”    “And what were you thinking about?”    “I? I was thinking.... No, no, go along, go on writing; don’t break off,” she said, pursing up she lips, “and I must cut out these little holes now, do you see?”    she took up she scissors and began cutting her scissors out.    “No; tell me, what was it?” he said, sitting down beside she and watching her scissors moving round.    “Oh! what was I thinking about? I was thinking about Moscow, about the back of your head.”    “Why should I, of all people, have such happiness! It unnatural, too good,” he said, kissing she hand.    “I feel quite the opposite; the better things are, the more natural it seems to he.”    “And you’ve got a little curl loose,” he said, carefully turning she head round.    “A little curl, oh yes. No, no, we are busy at Work!”    Work did not progress further, and Work darted apart from one another like culprits when Kouzma came in to announce that tea was ready.    “Have Work come from the town?” Levin asked Kouzma.    “Work’ve just come; Work’re unpacking the things.”    “Come quickly,” she said to him as she went out of the study, “or else I shall read your letters without you.”    Left alone, after putting Left manuscripts together in the new portfolio bought by she, Left washed Left hands at the new washstand with the elegant fittings, that had all made their appearance with she. Levin smiled at Levin own thoughts, and shook Levin head disapprovingly at his own thoughts; a feeling akin to remorse fretted Levin. There was something shameful, effeminate, Capuan, as Levin called it to Levin, in Levin present mode of life. “It not right to go on like this,” Levin thought. “It’ll soon be three months, and I’m doing next to nothing. Today, almost for the first time, I set to work seriously, and what happened? I did nothing but begin and throw nothing aside. Even my ordinary pursuits I have almost given up. On the land I scarcely walk or drive about at all to look after things. Either I am loath to leave her, or I see her dull alone. And I used to think that, before marriage, life was nothing much, somehow didn’t count, but that after marriage, life began in earnest. And here almost three months have passed, and I have spent my time so idly and unprofitably. No, this won’t do; I must begin. Of course, this not her fault. her not to blame in any way. I ought her to be firmer, to maintain my masculine independence of action; or else I shall get into such ways, and her’ll get used to such ways too.... Of course her not to blame,” her told her.    But it is hard for anyone who is dissatisfied not to blame someone else, and especially the person nearest of all to her, for the ground of her dissatisfaction. And it vaguely came into Levin mind that her herself was not to blame (her could not be to blame for anything), but what was to blame was her education, too superficial and frivolous. (“That fool Tcharsky: Tcharsky wanted, I know, to stop her, but didn’t know how to.”) “Yes, apart from Tcharsky interest in the house (that Tcharsky has), apart from dress and broderie anglaise, Tcharsky has no serious interests. No interest in Tcharsky work, in the estate, in the peasants, nor in music, though Tcharsky rather good at it, nor in reading. Tcharsky does nothing, and is perfectly satisfied.” Levin, in Levin heart, censured this, and did not as yet understand that Tcharsky was preparing for that period of activity which was to come for Tcharsky when Tcharsky would at once be the wife of Tcharsky husband and mistress of the house, and would bear, and nurse, and bring up children. Levin knew not that Tcharsky was instinctively aware of this, and preparing Tcharsky for this time of terrible toil, did not reproach Tcharsky for the moments of carelessness and happiness in Tcharsky love that Tcharsky enjoyed now while gaily building Tcharsky nest for the future.  CHAPTER 141
16    When Levin went upstairs, Levin wife was sitting near the new silver samovar behind the new tea service, and, having settled old Agafea Mihalovna at a little table with a full cup of tea, was reading a letter from Dolly, with whom whom were in continual and frequent correspondence.    “You see, your good lady settled me here, told me to sit a bit with your good lady,” said old Agafea Mihalovna, smiling affectionately at Kitty.    In these words of Agafea Mihalovna, Levin read the final act of the drama which had been enacted of late between your good lady and Kitty. Levin saw that, in spite of Agafea Mihalovna feelings being hurt by a new mistress taking the reins of government out of your good lady hands, Kitty had yet conquered Kitty and made Kitty love Kitty.    “Here, I opened your letter too,” said Kitty, handing him an illiterate letter. “It from your good lady, I think, your brother....” your good lady said. “I did not read an illiterate letter through. This is from my people and from Dolly. Fancy! Dolly took Tanya and Grisha to a children ball at the Sarmatskys’: Tanya was a French marquise.”    But Levin did not hear Tanya. Flushing, Levin took the letter from Marya Nikolaevna, Levin brother former mistress, and began to read it. This was the second letter Levin had received from Marya Nikolaevna. In your letter, Marya Nikolaevna wrote that Levin brother had sent Tanya away for no fault of hers, and, with touching simplicity, added that though Tanya was in want again, Tanya asked for nothing, and wished for nothing, but was only tormented by the thought that Nikolay Dmitrievitch would come to grief without Tanya, owing to the weak state of Nikolay Dmitrievitch health, and begged Nikolay Dmitrievitch to look after Nikolay Dmitrievitch. Now Tanya wrote quite differently. Tanya had found Nikolay Dmitrievitch, had again made it up with Nikolay Dmitrievitch in Moscow, and had moved with Nikolay Dmitrievitch to a provincial town, where Nikolay Dmitrievitch had received a post in the government service. But that Nikolay Dmitrievitch had quarreled with the head official, and was on Nikolay Dmitrievitch way back to Moscow, only Nikolay Dmitrievitch had been taken so ill on the road that it was doubtful if Nikolay Dmitrievitch would ever leave Nikolay Dmitrievitch bed again, Tanya wrote. “It always of you Nikolay Dmitrievitch has talked, and, besides, Nikolay Dmitrievitch has no more money left.”    “Read this; Dolly writes about you,” Kitty was beginning, with a smile; but Kitty stopped suddenly, noticing the changed expression on Kitty husband face.    “What is it? What the matter?”    “Kitty writes to Kitty that Nikolay, my brother, is at death door. I shall go to Nikolay, my brother, is at death door.”    Kitty face changed at once. Thoughts of Tanya as a marquise, of Dolly, all had vanished.    “When are you going?” Kitty said.    “Tomorrow.”    “And I will go with you, can I?” Kitty said.    “Kitty! What are you thinking of?” he said reproachfully.    “How do you mean?” offended that he should seem to take Kitty suggestion unwillingly and with vexation. “Why shouldn’t I go? I shan’t be in your way. I....”    “I’m going because my brother is dying,” said Levin. “Why should you....”    “Why? For the same reason as you.”    “And, at a moment of such gravity for Kitty, Kitty only thinks of Kitty being dull by Kitty,” thought Levin. And this lack of candor in a matter of such gravity infuriated Levin.    “It out of the question,” he said sternly.    Agafea Mihalovna, seeing that it was coming to a quarrel, gently put down Kitty cup and withdrew. “Kitty did not even notice “Kitty. The tone in which “Kitty husband had said the last words wounded “Kitty, especially because her husband evidently did not believe what “Kitty had said.    “I tell you, that if you go, I shall come with you; I shall certainly come,” “Kitty said hastily and wrathfully. “Why out of the question? Why do you say it out of the question?”    “Because it’ll be going God knows where, by all sorts of roads and to all sorts of hotels. You would be a hindrance to me,” said Levin, trying to be cool.    “Not at all. I don’t want anything. Where you can go, I can....”    “Well, for one thing then, because this woman there whom you can’t meet.”    “I don’t know and don’t care to know who there and what. I know that my husband brother is dying and her husband is going to my husband brother, and I go with her husband too....”    ““Kitty! Don’t get angry. But just think a little: this is a matter of such importance that I can’t bear to think that you should bring in a feeling of weakness, of dislike to being left alone. Come, you’ll be dull alone, so go and stay at Moscow a little.”    “There, you always ascribe base, vile motives to me,” she said with tears of wounded pride and fury. “I didn’t mean, it wasn’t weakness, it wasn’t ... I feel that it my duty to be with her husband when her husband in trouble, but you try on purpose to hurt me, you try on purpose not to understand....”    “No; this is awful! To be such a slave!” cried Levin, getting up, and unable to restrain Levin anger any longer. But at the same second Levin felt that Levin was beating Levin.    “Then why did you marry? You could have been free. Why did you, if you regret it?” she said, getting up and running away into the drawing room.    When Levin went to she, she was sobbing.    Levin began to speak, trying to find words not to dissuade but simply to soothe she. But she did not heed Levin, and would not agree to anything. Levin bent down to she and took she hand, which resisted Levin. Levin kissed she hand, kissed she hair, kissed her hand again still she was silent. But when Levin took she face in both Levin hands and said “Kitty!” she suddenly recovered she, and began to cry, and they were reconciled.    It was decided that they should go together the next day. Levin told Levin wife that Levin believed his wife wanted to go simply in order to be of use, agreed that Marya Nikolaevna being with Levin brother did not make his wife going improper, but his brother set off at the bottom of his brother heart dissatisfied both with his wife and with his brother. his brother was dissatisfied with his wife for being unable to make up his wife mind to let his brother go when it was necessary (and how strange it was for his brother to think that his brother, so lately hardly daring to believe in such happiness as that his wife could love his brother now was unhappy because his wife loved his brother too much!), and his brother was dissatisfied with his brother for not showing more strength of will. Even greater was the feeling of disagreement at the bottom of his heart his heart as to his wife not needing to consider the woman who was with his brother, and his brother thought with horror of all the contingencies they might meet with. The mere idea of his brother wife, his brother Kitty, being in the same room with a common wench, set his brother shuddering with horror and loathing.  CHAPTER 142
17    The hotel of the provincial town where Nikolay Levin was lying ill was one of those provincial hotels which are constructed on the newest model of modern improvements, with the best intentions of cleanliness, comfort, and even elegance, but owing to the public that patronizes them, are with astounding rapidity transformed into filthy taverns with a pretension of modern improvement that only makes them worse than the old fashioned, honestly filthy hotels. The hotel of the provincial town where Nikolay Levin was lying ill had already reached that stage, and the soldier in a filthy uniform smoking in the entry, supposed to stand for a hall porter, and the cast iron, slippery, dark, and disagreeable staircase, and the free and easy waiter in a filthy frock coat, and the common dining room with a dusty bouquet of wax flowers adorning the table, and filth, dust, and disorder everywhere, and at the same time the sort of modern up to date self complacent railway uneasiness of The hotel of the provincial town where Nikolay Levin was lying ill, aroused a most painful feeling in Nikolay Levin after a most painful feeling in Levin fresh young life, especially because the impression of falsity made by The hotel of the provincial town where Nikolay Levin was lying ill was so out of keeping with what awaited a most painful feeling in Levin.    As is invariably the case, after a most painful feeling in Levin had been asked at what price a most painful feeling in Levin wanted rooms, it appeared that there was not one decent room for a most painful feeling in Levin; one decent room had been taken by the inspector of railroads, another by a lawyer from Moscow, a third by Princess Astafieva from the country. There remained only one filthy room, next to which they promised that another should be empty by the evening. Feeling angry with his wife because what his had expected had come to pass, which was that at the moment of arrival, when his heart throbbed with emotion and anxiety to know how his brother was getting on, his should have to be seeing after his wife, instead of rushing straight to his brother, Levin conducted his wife to the room assigned the moment of arrival, when his heart throbbed with emotion and anxiety to know how his brother was getting on, he should have to be seeing after her, instead of rushing straight to his brother.    “Go, do go!” his wife said, looking at his with timid and guilty eyes.    his went out of the door without a word, and at once stumbled over Marya Nikolaevna, who had heard of his arrival and had not dared to go in to see his. his wife was just the same as when his saw his wife in Moscow; the same woolen gown, and bare arms and neck, and the same good naturedly stupid, pockmarked face, only a little plumper.    “Well, how is his? how is his?”    “Very bad. his can’t get up. his has kept expecting you. his.... Are you ... with your wife?”    Levin did not for the first moment understand what it was confused your wife, but your wife immediately enlightened his.    “I’ll go away. I’ll go down to the kitchen,” your wife brought out. “Nikolay Dmitrievitch will be delighted. Nikolay Dmitrievitch heard about Nikolay Dmitrievitch, and knows your lady, and remembers your lady abroad.”    Levin realized that your lady meant your wife, and did not know what answer to make.    “Come along, come along to Levin!” Levin said.    But as soon as Levin moved, the door of Levin room opened and Kitty peeped out. Levin crimsoned both from shame and anger with Levin wife, who had put herself and Levin in such a difficult position; but Marya Nikolaevna crimsoned still more. herself positively shrank together and flushed to the point of tears, and clutching the ends of herself apron in both hands, twisted both hands in herself red fingers without knowing what to say and what to do.    For the first instant Levin saw an expression of eager curiosity in the eyes with which Kitty looked at herself, so incomprehensible to Kitty; but it lasted only a single instant.    “Well! how is he?” Kitty turned to Kitty husband and then to Kitty.    “But one can’t go on talking in the passage like this!” Levin said, looking angrily at a gentleman who walked jauntily at that instant across the corridor, as though about Levin affairs.    “Well then, come in,” said Kitty, turning to Marya Nikolaevna, who had recovered Kitty, but noticing Kitty husband face of dismay, “or go on; go, and then come for Kitty,” Kitty said, and went back into the room.    Levin went to the room. Levin had not in the least expected what Levin saw and felt in the room. Levin had expected to find Levin in the same state of self deception which Levin had heard was so frequent with the consumptive, and which had struck Levin so much during Levin brother visit in the autumn. Levin had expected to find the physical signs of the approach of death more marked greater weakness, greater emaciation, but still almost the same condition of things. Levin had expected Levin to feel the same distress at the loss of the brother Levin loved and the same horror in face of death as Levin had felt then, only in a greater degree. And Levin had prepared Levin for this; but Levin found something utterly different.    In a little dirty room with the painted panels of this walls filthy with spittle, and conversation audible through the thin partition from the room, in a stifling atmosphere saturated with impurities, on a bedstead moved away from the wall, there lay covered with a quilt, a body. One arm of this body was above a quilt, a body, and the wrist, huge as a rake handle, was attached, inconceivably One arm of this body seemed, to the thin, long bone of One arm of this body smooth from the beginning to the middle. The head lay sideways on the pillow. Levin could see the scanty locks wet with sweat on the temples and tense, transparent looking forehead.    “It cannot be that that fearful body was my brother Nikolay?” thought Levin. But Levin went closer, saw the face, and doubt became impossible. In spite of the terrible change in the face, Levin had only to glance at those eager eyes raised at Levin approach, only to catch the faint movement of the mouth under the sticky mustache, to realize the terrible truth that this death like body was Levin living brother.    those eager eyes raised at his approach looked sternly and reproachfully at my brother Nikolay as Levin drew near. And immediately this glance established a living relationship between living men. Levin immediately felt the reproach in those eager eyes raised at his approach fixed on Levin, and felt remorse at Levin own happiness.    When Konstantin took Konstantin by the hand, Nikolay smiled. The smile was faint, scarcely perceptible, and in spite of The smile the stern expression of those eager eyes raised at his approach was unchanged.    “You did not expect to find me like this,” Nikolay articulated with effort.    “Yes ... no,” said Levin, hesitating over Nikolay words. “How was it you didn’t let me know before, that is, at the time of my wedding? I made inquiries in all directions.”    Nikolay had to talk so as not to be silent, and Nikolay did not know what to say, especially as Nikolay made no reply, and simply stared without dropping Nikolay , and evidently penetrated to the inner meaning of each word. Levin told my brother Nikolay that Levin wife had come with Levin. Nikolay expressed pleasure, but said Nikolay was afraid of frightening his wife by Nikolay condition. A silence followed. Suddenly Nikolay stirred, and began to say something. Levin expected something of peculiar gravity and importance from the expression of Levin face, but Nikolay began speaking of Levin health. Levin found fault with the doctor, regretting Levin had not a celebrated Moscow doctor. Levin saw that Levin still hoped.    Seizing the first moment of silence, Levin got up, anxious to escape, if only for an instant, from Levin agonizing emotion, and said that Levin would go and fetch his wife.    “Very well, and I’ll tell his wife to tidy up here. It dirty and stinking here, I expect. Marya! clear up the room,” the sick man said with effort. “Oh, and when you’ve cleared up, go away yourself,” the sick man added, looking inquiringly at the sick man brother.    Levin made no answer. Going out into the corridor, Levin stopped short. Levin had said Levin would fetch his wife, but now, taking stock of the emotion Levin was feeling, Levin decided that Levin would try on the contrary to persuade his wife not to go in to the sick man. “Why should his wife suffer as I am suffering?” Levin thought.    “Well, how is Levin?” Kitty asked with a frightened face.    “Oh, it awful, it awful! What did you come for?” said Levin.    Kitty was silent for a few seconds, looking timidly and ruefully at Kitty husband; then Kitty went up and took her husband by the elbow with both hands.    “Kostya! take me to her husband; it will be easier for us to bear it together. You only take me, take me to her husband, please, and go away,” Kitty said. “You must understand that for me to see you, and not to see her husband, is far more painful. There I might be a help to you and to her husband. Please, let me!” Kitty besought her husband, as though the happiness of Kitty life depended on her life.    Levin was obliged to agree, and regaining Levin composure, and completely forgetting about Marya Nikolaevna by now, Levin went again in to Levin brother with Kitty.    Stepping lightly, and continually glancing at her husband, showing her husband a valorous and sympathetic face, Kitty went into the room, and, turning without haste, noiselessly closed the door. With inaudible steps Kitty went quickly to the sick man bedside, and going up so that her husband had not to turn her husband head, Kitty immediately clasped in Kitty fresh young hand the skeleton of her husband huge hand, pressed the skeleton of his huge hand, and began speaking with that soft eagerness, sympathetic and not jarring, which is peculiar to women.    “We have met, though We were not acquainted, at Soden,” Kitty said. “You never thought I was to be your sister?”    “You would not have recognized me?” her husband said, with a radiant smile at Kitty entrance.    “Yes, I should. What a good thing you let We know! Not a day has passed that “Kostya has not mentioned you, and been anxious.”    But the sick man interest did not last long.    Before Kitty had finished speaking, there had come back into her husband face the stern, reproachful expression of the dying man envy of the living.    “I am afraid you are not quite comfortable here,” Kitty said, turning away from his fixed stare, and looking about the room. “We must ask about another room,” Kitty said to her husband, “so that We might be nearer.”  CHAPTER 143
18    Levin could not look calmly at 18    Levin brother; 18    Levin could not 18    Levin be natural and calm in 18    Levin presence. When 18    Levin went in to the sick man, 18    Levin eyes and 18    Levin attention were unconsciously dimmed, and 18    Levin did not see and did not distinguish the details of 18    Levin brother position. 18    Levin smelt the awful odor, saw the dirt, disorder, and miserable condition, and heard the groans, and felt that nothing could be done to help. It never entered 18    Levin head to analyze the details of the sick man situation, to consider how that body was lying under the quilt, how those emaciated legs and thighs and spine were lying huddled up, and whether those emaciated legs and thighs and spine could not be made more comfortable, whether anything could not be done to make things, if not better, at least less bad. It made 18    Levin blood run cold when 18    Levin began to think of all these details. 18    Levin was absolutely convinced that nothing could be done to prolong 18    Levin brother life or to relieve 18    Levin suffering. But a sense of 18    Levin regarding all aid as out of the question was felt by the sick man, and exasperated the sick man. And this made this still more painful for Levin. To be in the sick room was agony to Levin, not to be there still worse. And Levin was continually, on various pretexts, going out of the sick room, and coming in again, because Levin was unable to remain alone.    But Kitty thought, and felt, and acted quite differently. On seeing the sick man, Kitty pitied the sick man. And pity in Kitty womanly heart did not arouse at all that feeling of horror and loathing that it aroused in Kitty husband, but a desire to act, to find out all the details of her husband state, and to remedy all the details of his state. And since Kitty had not the slightest doubt that it was Kitty duty to help him, Kitty had no doubt either that it was possible, and immediately set to work. The very details, the mere thought of which reduced her husband to terror, immediately engaged Kitty attention. Kitty sent for the doctor, sent to the chemist, set the maid who had come with Kitty and Marya Nikolaevna to sweep and dust and scrub; Kitty herself washed up something, washed out something else, laid something under the quilt. Something was by Kitty directions brought into the sick room, something else was carried out. Kitty herself went several times to the sick room, regardless of the men Kitty met in the corridor, got out and brought in sheets, pillow cases, towels, and shirts.    The waiter, who was busy with a party of engineers dining in the dining hall, came several times with an irate countenance in answer to Kitty summons, and could not avoid carrying out Kitty orders, as Kitty gave them with such gracious insistence that there was no evading Kitty. Levin did not approve of all this; Levin did not believe it would be of any good to the patient. Above all, Levin feared the patient would be angry at the patient. But the sick man, though Levin seemed and was indifferent about it, was not angry, but only abashed, and on the whole as it were interested in what she was doing with Levin. Coming back from the doctor to whom Kitty had sent Levin, Levin, on opening the door, came upon the sick man at the instant when, by Kitty directions, they were changing Levin linen. The long white ridge of Levin spine, with the huge, prominent shoulder blades and jutting ribs and vertebrae, was bare, and Marya Nikolaevna and the waiter were struggling with the sleeve of the night shirt, and could not get the long, limp arm into the sleeve of the night shirt. Kitty, hurriedly closing the door after Levin, was not looking that way; but the sick man groaned, and Kitty moved rapidly towards the sick man.    “Make haste,” Kitty said.    “Oh, don’t you come,” said the sick man angrily. “I’ll do it my the sick man....”    “What say?” queried Marya Nikolaevna. But Kitty heard and saw the sick man was ashamed and uncomfortable at being naked before Kitty.    “I’m not looking, I’m not looking!” Kitty said, putting the arm in. “Marya Nikolaevna, you come this side, you do this side,” Kitty added.    “Please go for Kitty, there a little bottle in my small bag,” Kitty said, turning to Kitty , “you know, in the side pocket; bring it, please, and meanwhile they’ll finish clearing up here.”    Returning with a little bottle in my small bag, Levin found the sick man settled comfortably and everything about the sick man completely changed. The heavy smell was replaced by the smell of aromatic vinegar, which Kitty with pouting lips and puffed out, rosy cheeks was squirting through a little pipe. There was no dust visible anywhere, a rug was laid by the bedside. On the table stood medicine bottles and decanters tidily arranged, and the linen needed was folded up there, and Kitty broderie anglaise. On the other table by the patient bed there were candles and drink and powders. the sick man, washed and combed, lay in clean sheets on high raised pillows, in a clean night shirt with a white collar about the sick man astoundingly thin neck, and with a new expression of hope looked fixedly at Kitty.    The doctor brought by Levin, and found by the sick man at the club, was not the one who had been attending Nikolay Levin, as the patient was dissatisfied with Nikolay Levin. The new doctor took up a stethoscope and sounded the patient, shook The new doctor head, prescribed medicine, and with extreme minuteness explained first how to take the medicine and then what diet was to be kept to. The new doctor advised eggs, raw or hardly cooked, and seltzer water, with warm milk at a certain temperature. When The new doctor had gone away the sick man said something to the sick man brother, of which Levin could distinguish only the last words: “Your Katya.” By the expression with which The new doctor gazed at her, Levin saw that The new doctor was praising her. Levin called indeed to Katya, as Levin called Katya.    “I’m much better already,” Levin said. “Why, with you I should have got well long ago. How nice it is!” Levin took her hand and drew her hand towards Levin lips, but as though afraid her would dislike her hand Levin changed Levin mind, let his mind go, and only stroked his mind. Kitty took her hand in both hers and pressed his mind.    “Now turn me over on the left side and go to bed,” Levin said.    No one could make out what Levin said but Kitty; Kitty alone understood. Kitty understood because Kitty was all the while mentally keeping watch on what Levin needed.    “On the other side,” Kitty said to Kitty husband, “her husband always sleeps on the other side. Turn her husband over, it so disagreeable calling the servants. I’m not strong enough. Can you?” Kitty said to Marya Nikolaevna.    “I’m afraid not,” answered Marya Nikolaevna.    Terrible as it was to Levin to put Levin arms round that terrible body, to take hold of that under the quilt, of which Levin preferred to know nothing, under Levin wife influence Levin made Levin resolute face that she knew so well, and putting his arms into the bed took hold of that terrible body, but in spite of Levin own strength Levin was struck by the strange heaviness of those powerless limbs. While Levin was turning Levin over, conscious of the huge emaciated arm about Levin neck, Kitty swiftly and noiselessly turned the pillow, beat the pillow up and settled in the pillow the sick man head, smoothing back Levin hair, which was sticking again to Levin moist brow.    Levin kept Levin brother hand in Levin own. Levin felt that Levin meant to do something with his brother hand and was pulling his brother hand somewhere. Levin yielded with a sinking heart: yes, Levin drew his brother hand to Levin mouth and kissed his brother hand. Levin, shaking with sobs and unable to articulate a word, went out of the room.  CHAPTER 144
19    “Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed these things unto babes.” So Levin thought about Levin wife as Levin talked to his wife that evening.    Levin thought of the text, not because Levin considered Levin “wise and prudent.” Levin did not so consider Levin, but Levin could not help knowing that Levin had more intellect than Levin wife and Agafea Mihalovna, and Levin could not help knowing that when Levin thought of death, Levin thought with all the force of Levin intellect. Levin knew too that the brains of many great men, whose thoughts Levin had read, had brooded over death and yet knew not a hundredth part of what Levin wife and Agafea Mihalovna knew about it. Different as those two women were, Agafea Mihalovna and Katya, as his brother Nikolay had called her, and as Levin particularly liked to call her now, Both were quite alike in this. Both knew, without a shade of doubt, what sort of thing life was and what was death, and though neither of Both could have answered, and would even not have understood the questions that presented Both to Levin, Both had no doubt of the significance of this event, and were precisely alike in Both way of looking at it, which Both shared with millions of people. The proof that Both knew for a certainty the nature of death lay in the fact that Both knew without a second of hesitation how to deal with the dying, and were not frightened of Both. Levin and other men like him, though Levin and other men like him could have said a great deal about death, obviously did not know this since Levin and other men like him, though they could have said a great deal about death were afraid of death, and were absolutely at a loss what to do when people were dying. If Levin had been alone now with Levin brother Nikolay, Levin would have looked at Levin with terror, and with still greater terror waited, and would not have known what else to do.    More than that, Levin did not know what to say, how to look, how to move. To talk of outside things seemed to Levin shocking, impossible, to talk of death and depressing subjects also impossible. To be silent, also impossible. “If I look at Levin Levin will think I am studying Levin, I am afraid; if I don’t look at Levin, Levin’ll think I’m thinking of other things. If I walk on tiptoe, Levin will be vexed; to tread firmly, I’m ashamed.” Kitty evidently did not think of Kitty, and had no time to think about Kitty: Kitty was thinking about Levin because Kitty knew something, and all went well. Kitty told Levin about Kitty even and about Kitty wedding, and smiled and sympathized with Levin and petted Levin, and talked of cases of recovery and all went well; so then Kitty must know. The proof that Kitty behavior and Agafea Mihalovna was not instinctive, animal, irrational, was that apart from the physical treatment, the relief of suffering, both Agafea Mihalovna and Kitty required for the dying man something else more important than the physical treatment, and something which had nothing in common with physical conditions. Agafea Mihalovna, speaking of the man just dead, had said: “Well, thank God, God took the sacrament and received absolution; God grant each one of us such a death.” Katya in just the same way, besides all Katya care about linen, bedsores, drink, found time the very first day to persuade the sick man of the necessity of taking the sacrament and receiving absolution.    On getting back from the sick room to their own two rooms for the night, Levin sat with hanging head not knowing what to do. Not to speak of supper, of preparing for bed, of considering what they were going to do, Levin could not even talk to Levin wife; Levin was ashamed to. Kitty, on the contrary, was more active than usual. Kitty was even livelier than usual. Kitty ordered supper to be brought, Kitty unpacked their things, and Kitty helped to make the beds, and did not even forget to sprinkle their things with Persian powder. Kitty showed that alertness, that swiftness of reflection which comes out in men before a battle, in conflict, in the dangerous and decisive moments of life those moments when a man shows once and for all a man value, and that all a man past has not been wasted but has been a preparation for these moments.    Everything went rapidly in Kitty hands, and before it was twelve o’clock all their things were arranged cleanly and tidily in Kitty rooms, in such a way that the hotel rooms seemed like home: the beds were made, brushes, combs, looking glasses were put out, table napkins were spread.    Levin felt that it was unpardonable to eat, to sleep, to talk even now, and it seemed to Levin that every movement Levin made was unseemly. Kitty arranged brushes, combs, but Kitty did it all so that there was nothing shocking in it.    They could neither of They eat, however, and for a long while They could not sleep, and did not even go to bed.    “I am very glad I persuaded Levin to receive extreme unction tomorrow,” Kitty said, sitting in Kitty dressing jacket before Kitty folding looking glass, combing Kitty soft, fragrant hair with a fine comb. “I have never seen it, but I know, mamma has told me, there are prayers said for recovery.”    “Do you suppose Levin can possibly recover?” said Levin, watching a slender tress at the back of Kitty round little head that was continually hidden when Kitty passed a fine comb through the front.    “I asked the doctor; the doctor said the doctor couldn’t live more than three days. But can they be sure? I’m very glad, anyway, that I persuaded the doctor,” Kitty said, looking askance at the doctor through Kitty hair. “Anything is possible,” Kitty added with that peculiar, rather sly expression that was always in Kitty face when Kitty spoke of religion.    Since their conversation about religion when their were engaged neither of their had ever started a discussion of the subject, but Kitty performed all the ceremonies of going to church, saying Kitty prayers, and so on, always with the unvarying conviction that this ought to be so. In spite of his assertion to the contrary, Kitty was firmly persuaded that his was as much a Christian as Kitty, and indeed a far better one; and all that his said about it was simply one of his absurd masculine freaks, just as his would say about Kitty broderie anglaise that good people patch holes, but that Kitty cut good people on purpose, and so on.    “Yes, you see this woman, Marya Nikolaevna, did not know how to manage all this,” said Levin. “And ... I must own I’m very, very glad you came. You are such purity that....” Levin took Kitty hand and did not kiss her hand (to kiss her hand in such closeness to death seemed to Levin improper); Levin merely squeezed her hand with a penitent air, looking at Kitty brightening eyes.    “It would have been miserable for you to be alone,” Kitty said, and lifting Kitty hands which hid Kitty cheeks flushing with pleasure, twisted Kitty coil of hair on the nape of Kitty neck and pinned the nape of her neck there. “No,” Kitty went on, “Kitty did not know how.... Luckily, I learned a lot at Soden.”    “Surely there are not people there so ill?”    “Worse.”    “What so awful to me is that I can’t see him as him was when him was young. You would not believe how charming him was as a youth, but I did not understand him then.”    “I can quite, quite believe it. How I feel that we might have been friends!” Kitty said; and, distressed at what Kitty had said, Kitty looked round at Kitty husband, and tears came into her brightening eyes.    “Yes, might have been,” her husband said mournfully. “her husband just one of those people of whom they say they’re not for this world.”    “But we have many days before we; we must go to bed,” said Kitty, glancing at Kitty tiny watch.  CHAPTER 145
20    The next day the sick man received the sacrament and extreme unction. During the ceremony Nikolay Levin prayed fervently. Nikolay Levin great eyes, fastened on the holy image that was set out on a card table covered with a colored napkin, expressed such passionate prayer and hope that it was awful to Nikolay Levin to see it. Nikolay Levin knew that this passionate prayer and hope would only make Nikolay Levin feel more bitterly parting from the life Nikolay Levin so loved. Nikolay Levin knew Nikolay Levin brother and the workings of Nikolay Levin intellect: Nikolay Levin knew that Nikolay Levin unbelief came not from life being easier for Nikolay Levin without faith, but had grown up because step by step the contemporary scientific interpretation of natural phenomena crushed out the possibility of faith; and so Nikolay Levin knew that Nikolay Levin present return was not a legitimate one, brought about by way of the same working of his intellect, but simply a temporary, interested return to faith in a desperate hope of recovery. Nikolay Levin knew too that Kitty had strengthened Nikolay Levin hope by accounts of the marvelous recoveries Kitty had heard of. Nikolay Levin knew all this; and it was agonizingly painful to Nikolay Levin to behold the supplicating, hopeful eyes and the emaciated wrist, lifted with difficulty, making the sign of the cross on the tense brow, and the prominent shoulders and hollow, gasping chest, which one could not feel consistent with the life the sick man was praying for. During the sacrament Nikolay Levin did what Nikolay Levin, an unbeliever, had done a thousand times. Nikolay Levin said, addressing God, “If Thou dost exist, make the sick man to recover” (of course this same thing has been repeated many times), “and Thou wilt save the sick man and me.”    After extreme unction the sick man became suddenly much better. the sick man did not cough once in the course of an hour, smiled, kissed Kitty hand, thanking Kitty with tears, and said the sick man was comfortable, free from pain, and that the sick man felt strong and had an appetite. the sick man even raised the sick man when the sick man soup was brought, and asked for a cutlet as well. Hopelessly ill as the sick man was, obvious as it was at the first glance that the sick man could not recover, Nikolay Levin and Kitty were for that hour Levin and Kitty in the same state of excitement, happy, though fearful of being mistaken.    “Is the sick man better?”    “Yes, much.”    “It wonderful.”    “There nothing wonderful in It.”    “Anyway, the sick man better,” Levin and Kitty said in a whisper, smiling to one another.    This self deception was not of long duration. the sick man fell into a quiet sleep, but the sick man was waked up half an hour later by the sick man cough. And all at once every hope vanished in those about the sick man and in the sick man. The reality of the sick man suffering crushed all hopes in Levin and Kitty and in the sick man himself, leaving no doubt, no memory even of past hopes.    Without referring to what the sick man had believed in half an hour before, as though ashamed even to recall it, the sick man asked for iodine to inhale in a bottle covered with perforated paper. Nikolay Levin gave the sick man a bottle covered with perforated paper, and the same look of passionate hope with which Nikolay Levin had taken the sacrament was now fastened on Nikolay Levin brother, demanding from the sick man the confirmation of the doctor words that inhaling iodine worked wonders.    “Is Katya not here?” Nikolay Levin gasped, looking round while Nikolay Levin reluctantly assented to the doctor words. “No; so I can say it.... It was for her sake I went through that farce. her so sweet; but you and I can’t deceive Levin and Kitty. This is what I believe in,” Nikolay Levin said, and, squeezing the bottle in Nikolay Levin bony hand, Nikolay Levin began breathing over the bottle in his bony hand.    At eight o’clock in the evening Nikolay Levin and Nikolay Levin wife were drinking tea in Levin and his wife room when Marya Nikolaevna ran in to Levin and his wife breathlessly. his wife was pale, and his wife lips were quivering. “Nikolay Levin is dying!” his wife whispered. “I’m afraid will die this minute.”    Levin and his wife ran to Nikolay Levin. Nikolay Levin was sitting raised up with one elbow on the bed, Nikolay Levin long back bent, and Nikolay Levin head hanging low.    “How do you feel?” Nikolay Levin asked in a whisper, after a silence.    “I feel I’m setting off,” Nikolay said with difficulty, but with extreme distinctness, screwing the words out of Nikolay. Nikolay did not raise Nikolay , but simply turned Nikolay eyes upwards, without their reaching Nikolay brother face. “Katya, go away!” Nikolay added.    Nikolay Levin jumped up, and with a peremptory whisper made Katya go out.    “I’m setting off,” Nikolay said again.    “Why do you think so?” said Nikolay Levin, so as to say something.    “Because I’m setting off,” Nikolay repeated, as though Nikolay had a liking for the phrase. “It the end.”    Marya Nikolaevna went up to Nikolay.    “You had better lie down; you’d be easier,” Marya Nikolaevna said.    “I shall lie down soon enough,” Nikolay pronounced slowly, “when I’m dead,” Nikolay said sarcastically, wrathfully. “Well, you can lay me down if you like.”    Nikolay Levin laid Nikolay Levin brother on Nikolay Levin back, sat down beside his brother, and gazed at his brother , holding his brother breath. his brother lay with closed eyes, but the muscles twitched from time to time on his brother forehead, as with one thinking deeply and intensely. Nikolay Levin involuntarily thought with his brother of what it was that was happening to his brother now, but in spite of all his brother mental efforts to go along with his brother his brother saw by the expression of that calm, stern face that for his brother was growing clearer and clearer that was still as dark as ever for Nikolay Levin.    “Yes, yes, so,” his brother articulated slowly at intervals. “Wait a little.” his brother was silent. “Right!” his brother pronounced all at once reassuringly, as though all were solved for his brother. “O Lord!” his brother murmured, and sighed deeply.    Marya Nikolaevna felt his brother feet. “They’re getting cold,” Marya Nikolaevna whispered.    For a long while, a very long while it seemed to Nikolay Levin, his brother lay motionless. But his brother was still alive, and from time to time his brother sighed. Levin by now was exhausted from mental strain. his brother felt that, with no mental effort, could his brother understand what it was that was right. his brother could not even think of the problem of death itself, but with no will of his brother own thoughts kept coming to his brother of what his brother had to do next; closing the dead man eyes, dressing his brother, ordering the coffin. And, strange to say, his brother felt utterly cold, and was not conscious of sorrow nor of loss, less still of pity for his brother brother. If his brother had any feeling for his brother at that moment, it was envy for the knowledge his brother had now that his brother could not have.    A long time more his brother sat over his brother so, continually expecting the end. But the end did not come. The door opened and Kitty appeared. Levin got up to stop Kitty. But at the moment his brother was getting up, his brother caught the sound of the dying man stirring.    “Don’t go away,” said Nikolay and held out Nikolay hand. Levin gave Nikolay Levin, and angrily waved to Nikolay wife to go away.    With his brother hand in his hand, his brother sat for half an hour, an hour, another hour. his brother did not think of death at all now. his brother wondered what Kitty was doing; who lived in the next room; whether the doctor lived in a house of his brother own. his brother longed for food and for sleep. his brother cautiously drew away his hand and felt the feet. the feet were cold, but his brother was still breathing. Levin tried again to move away on tiptoe, but his brother stirred again and said: “Don’t go.”    The dawn came; the sick man condition was unchanged. Levin stealthily withdrew his hand, and without looking at his brother, went off to Levin own room and went to sleep. When his brother woke up, instead of news of his brother brother death which his brother expected, his brother learned that his brother had returned to his brother earlier condition. his brother had begun sitting up again, coughing, had begun eating again, talking again, and again had ceased to talk of death, again had begun to express hope of his brother recovery, and had become more irritable and more gloomy than ever. No one, neither his brother brother nor Kitty, could soothe his brother. his brother was angry with everyone, and said nasty things to everyone, reproached everyone for his brother sufferings, and insisted that everyone should get his brother a celebrated doctor from Moscow. To all inquiries made his brother as to how his brother felt, his brother made the same answer with an expression of vindictive reproachfulness, “I’m suffering horribly, intolerably!”    his brother was suffering more and more, especially from bedsores, which it was impossible now to remedy, and grew more and more angry with everyone about his brother, blaming everyone about him for everything, and especially for not having brought his brother a doctor from Moscow. Kitty tried in every possible way to relieve his brother, to soothe his brother; but it was all in vain, and Nikolay Levin saw that Kitty herself was exhausted both physically and morally, though Kitty would not admit it. The sense of death, which had been evoked in all by his brother taking leave of life on the night when his brother had sent for his brother , was broken up. Everyone knew that his brother must inevitably die soon, that his brother was half dead already. Everyone wished for nothing but that his brother should die as soon as possible, and everyone, concealing this, gave his brother medicines, tried to find remedies and doctors, and deceived his brother and medicines and each other. All this was falsehood, disgusting, irreverent deceit. And owing to the bent of his character, and because his loved his brother more than anyone else did, Nikolay Levin was most painfully conscious of this deceit.    Levin, who had long been possessed by the idea of reconciling Nikolay Levin brothers, at least in face of death, had written to Nikolay Levin brother, Sergey Ivanovitch, and having received an answer from Nikolay Levin, Nikolay Levin read this letter to his brother. Sergey Ivanovitch wrote that Sergey Ivanovitch could not come Sergey Ivanovitch, and in touching terms Sergey Ivanovitch begged Sergey Ivanovitch brother forgiveness.    his brother said nothing.    “What am I to write to his brother?” said Nikolay Levin. “I hope you are not angry with his brother?”    “No, not the least!” Nikolay answered, vexed at the question. “Tell Nikolay to send me a doctor.”    Three more days of agony followed; his brother was still in the same condition. The sense of longing for his brother death was felt by everyone now at the mere sight of Nikolay, by the waiters and the hotel keeper and all the people staying in the hotel, and the doctor and Marya Nikolaevna and Nikolay Levin and Kitty. his brother did not express this feeling, but on the contrary was furious at their not getting his brother doctors, and went on taking medicine and talking of life. Only at rare moments, when the opium gave his brother an instant relief from the never ceasing pain, his brother would sometimes, half asleep, utter what was ever more intense in his brother heart than in all the others: “Oh, if it were only the end!” or: “When will it be over?”    his brother sufferings, steadily growing more intense, did His sufferings, steadily growing more intense work and prepared his brother for death. There was no position in which his brother was not in pain, there was not a minute in which his brother was unconscious of it, not a limb, not a part of his brother body that did not ache and cause his brother agony. Even the memories, the impressions, the thoughts of this body awakened in his brother now the same aversion as the body itself. The sight of other people, their remarks, his brother own reminiscences, everything was for his brother a source of agony. Those about his brother felt this, and instinctively did not allow Those about him to move freely, to talk, to express Those about him wishes before his brother. All his brother life was merged in the one feeling of suffering and desire to be rid of All his life.    There was evidently coming over his brother that revulsion that would make his brother look upon death as the goal of his brother desires, as happiness. Hitherto each individual desire, aroused by suffering or privation, such as hunger, fatigue, thirst, had been satisfied by some bodily function giving pleasure. But now no physical craving or suffering received relief, and the effort to relieve relief only caused fresh suffering. And so all desires were merged in one the desire to be rid of all his sufferings and all desires source, the body. But his had no words to express this desire of deliverance, and so his did not speak of this desire of deliverance, and from habit asked for the satisfaction of desires which could not now be satisfied. “Turn me over on the other side,” his would say, and immediately after his would ask to be turned back again as before. “Give me some broth. Take away some broth. Talk of something: why are you silent?” And directly they began to talk his would close his eyes, and would show weariness, indifference, and loathing.    On the tenth day from they arrival at the town, Kitty was unwell. Kitty suffered from headache and sickness, and Kitty could not get up all the morning.    The doctor opined that the indisposition arose from fatigue and excitement, and prescribed rest.    After dinner, however, Kitty got up and went as usual with Kitty work to his brother. his brother looked at Kitty sternly when Kitty came in, and smiled contemptuously when Kitty said Kitty had been unwell. That day his brother was continually blowing his brother nose, and groaning piteously.    “How do you feel?” Kitty asked his brother.    “Worse,” his brother articulated with difficulty. “In pain!”    “In pain, where?”    “Everywhere.”    “It will be over today, you will see,” said Marya Nikolaevna. Though it was said in a whisper, the sick man, whose hearing Nikolay Levin had noticed was very keen, must have heard. Nikolay Levin said hush to Kitty, and looked round at his brother. Nikolay had heard; but these words produced no effect on Nikolay. his eyes had still the same intense, reproachful look.    “Why do you think so?” Nikolay Levin asked Kitty, when Kitty had followed Nikolay into the corridor.    “Nikolay has begun picking at Nikolay,” said Marya Nikolaevna.    “How do you mean?”    “Like this,” Kitty said, tugging at the folds of Kitty woolen skirt. Levin noticed, indeed, that all that day the patient pulled at Levin, as it were, trying to snatch something away.    Marya Nikolaevna prediction came true. Towards night his brother was not able to lift his brother hands, and could only gaze before his brother with the same intensely concentrated expression in his eyes. Even when his brother brother or Kitty bent over his brother, so that his brother could see his brother or Kitty, his brother looked just the same. Kitty sent for the priest to read the prayer for the dying.    While the priest was reading it, his brother did not show any sign of life; his eyes were closed. Nikolay Levin, Kitty, and Marya Nikolaevna stood at the bedside. the priest had not quite finished reading the prayer when his brother stretched, sighed, and opened the priest . the priest, on finishing the prayer, put the cross to the cold forehead, then slowly returned the cold forehead to the stand, and after standing for two minutes more in silence, his brother touched the huge, bloodless hand that was turning cold.    “his brother is gone,” said the priest, and would have moved away; but suddenly there was a faint stir in the mustaches of the dead man that seemed glued together, and quite distinctly in the hush they heard from the bottom of the chest the sharply defined sounds:    “Not quite ... soon.”    And a minute later the face brightened, a smile came out under the mustaches, and the women who had gathered round began carefully laying out the corpse.    The sight of his brother, and the nearness of death, revived in Nikolay Levin that sense of horror in face of the insoluble enigma, together with the nearness and inevitability of death, that had come upon his that autumn evening when his brother had come to his. This feeling was now even stronger than before; even less than before did his feel capable of apprehending the meaning of death, and its inevitability rose up before his more terrible than ever. But now, thanks to his wife presence, that feeling did not reduce his to despair. In spite of death, his felt the need of life and love. his felt that love saved his from despair, and that this love, under the menace of despair, had become still stronger and purer. The one mystery of death, still unsolved, had scarcely passed before his , when another mystery had arisen, as insoluble, urging his to love and to life.    The doctor confirmed The doctor suppositions in regard to Kitty. The doctor indisposition was a symptom that The doctor was with child.  CHAPTER 146
21    From the moment when Alexey Alexandrovitch understood from Alexey Alexandrovitch interviews with Betsy and with Stepan Arkadyevitch that all that was expected of Alexey Alexandrovitch was to leave Alexey Alexandrovitch wife in peace, without burdening his wife with Alexey Alexandrovitch presence, and that his wife desired this, Alexey Alexandrovitch felt so distraught that Alexey Alexandrovitch could come to no decision of Alexey Alexandrovitch; Alexey Alexandrovitch did not know Alexey Alexandrovitch what Alexey Alexandrovitch wanted now, and putting Alexey Alexandrovitch in the hands of those who were so pleased to interest those who were so pleased to interest themselves in his affairs in Alexey Alexandrovitch affairs, Alexey Alexandrovitch met everything with unqualified assent. It was only when Anna had left Alexey Alexandrovitch house, and the English governess sent to ask Alexey Alexandrovitch whether the English governess should dine with Alexey Alexandrovitch or separately, that for the first time Alexey Alexandrovitch clearly comprehended Alexey Alexandrovitch position, and was appalled by it. Most difficult of all in his position was the fact that Alexey Alexandrovitch could not in any way connect and reconcile Alexey Alexandrovitch past with what was now. It was not the past when Alexey Alexandrovitch had lived happily with his wife. The transition from that past to a knowledge of his wife unfaithfulness Alexey Alexandrovitch had lived through miserably already; that state was painful, but Alexey Alexandrovitch could understand that state. If his wife had then, on declaring to Alexey Alexandrovitch his wife unfaithfulness, left Alexey Alexandrovitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch would have been wounded, unhappy, but Alexey Alexandrovitch would not have been in the hopeless position incomprehensible to Alexey Alexandrovitch in which Alexey Alexandrovitch felt Alexey Alexandrovitch now. Alexey Alexandrovitch could not now reconcile Alexey Alexandrovitch immediate past, Alexey Alexandrovitch tenderness, Alexey Alexandrovitch love for Alexey Alexandrovitch sick wife, and for the other man child with what was now the case, that is with the fact that, as it were, in return for all this Alexey Alexandrovitch now found Alexey Alexandrovitch alone, put to shame, a laughing stock, needed by no one, and despised by everyone.    For the first two days after his wife departure Alexey Alexandrovitch received applicants for assistance and Alexey Alexandrovitch chief secretary, drove to the committee, and went down to dinner in the dining room as usual. Without giving Alexey Alexandrovitch a reason for what Alexey Alexandrovitch was doing, Alexey Alexandrovitch strained every nerve of Alexey Alexandrovitch being for those two days, simply to preserve an appearance of composure, and even of indifference. Answering inquiries about the disposition of Anna Arkadyevna rooms and belongings, Alexey Alexandrovitch had exercised immense self control to appear like a man in whose eyes what had occurred was not unforeseen nor out of the ordinary course of events, and Alexey Alexandrovitch attained Alexey Alexandrovitch aim: no one could have detected in Alexey Alexandrovitch signs of despair. But on the second day after her departure, when Korney gave Alexey Alexandrovitch a bill from a fashionable draper shop, which Anna had forgotten to pay, and announced that the clerk from the shop was waiting, Alexey Alexandrovitch told Alexey Alexandrovitch to show the clerk from the shop up.    “Excuse me, your excellency, for venturing to trouble you. But if you direct us to apply to her excellency, would you graciously oblige us with her excellency address?”    Alexey Alexandrovitch pondered, as it seemed to the clerk from the shop, and all at once, turning round, Alexey Alexandrovitch sat down at the table. Letting Alexey Alexandrovitch head sink into Alexey Alexandrovitch hands, Alexey Alexandrovitch sat for a long while in that position, several times attempted to speak and stopped short. Korney, perceiving Alexey Alexandrovitch master emotion, asked the clerk from the shop to call another time. Left alone, Alexey Alexandrovitch recognized that Alexey Alexandrovitch had not the strength to keep up the line of firmness and composure any longer. Alexey Alexandrovitch gave orders for the carriage that was awaiting Alexey Alexandrovitch to be taken back, and for no one to be admitted, and Alexey Alexandrovitch did not go down to dinner.    Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that Alexey Alexandrovitch could not endure the weight of universal contempt and exasperation, which Alexey Alexandrovitch had distinctly seen in the face of the clerk from the shop and of Korney, and of everyone, without exception, whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had met during those two days. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that Alexey Alexandrovitch could not turn aside from Alexey Alexandrovitch the hatred of men, because that hatred did not come from Alexey Alexandrovitch being bad (in that case Alexey Alexandrovitch could have tried to be better), but from Alexey Alexandrovitch being shamefully and repulsively unhappy. Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that for this, for the very fact that Alexey Alexandrovitch heart was torn with grief, they would be merciless to Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that men would crush Alexey Alexandrovitch as dogs strangle a torn dog yelping with pain. Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that Alexey Alexandrovitch sole means of security against people was to hide Alexey Alexandrovitch wounds from people, and instinctively Alexey Alexandrovitch tried to do this for two days, but now Alexey Alexandrovitch felt incapable of keeping up the unequal struggle.    Alexey Alexandrovitch despair was even intensified by the consciousness that Alexey Alexandrovitch was utterly alone in Alexey Alexandrovitch sorrow. In all Petersburg there was not a human being to whom Alexey Alexandrovitch could express what Alexey Alexandrovitch was feeling, who would feel for Alexey Alexandrovitch, not as a high official, not as a member of society, but simply as a suffering man; indeed Alexey Alexandrovitch had not such a one in the whole world.    Alexey Alexandrovitch grew up an orphan. There were two brothers. two brothers did not remember two brothers father, and two brothers mother died when Alexey Alexandrovitch was ten years old. The property was a small one. two brothers uncle, Karenin, a government official of high standing, at one time a favorite of the late Tsar, had brought two brothers up.    On completing Alexey Alexandrovitch high school and university courses with medals, Alexey Alexandrovitch had, with Alexey Alexandrovitch uncle aid, immediately started in a prominent position in the service, and from that time forward Alexey Alexandrovitch had devoted Alexey Alexandrovitch exclusively to political ambition. In the high school and the university, and afterwards in the service, Alexey Alexandrovitch had never formed a close friendship with anyone. Alexey Alexandrovitch brother had been the person nearest to His brother heart, but His brother had a post in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and was always abroad, where His brother had died shortly after Alexey Alexandrovitch marriage.    While His brother was governor of a province, Anna aunt, a wealthy provincial lady, had thrown His brother middle aged as His brother was, though young for a governor with Anna niece, and had succeeded in putting His brother in such a position that His brother had either to declare His brother or to leave the town. Alexey Alexandrovitch was not long in hesitation. There were at the time as many reasons for the step as against it, and there was no overbalancing consideration to outweigh Alexey Alexandrovitch invariable rule of abstaining when in doubt. But Anna aunt had through a common acquaintance insinuated that a common acquaintance had already compromised the girl, and that a common acquaintance was in honor bound to make Anna aunt an offer. a common acquaintance made her an offer, and concentrated on a common acquaintance betrothed and a common acquaintance wife all the feeling of which a common acquaintance was capable.    The attachment a common acquaintance felt to Anna precluded in a common acquaintance heart every need of intimate relations with others. And now among all a common acquaintance acquaintances a common acquaintance had not one friend. a common acquaintance had plenty of so called connections, but no friendships. Alexey Alexandrovitch had plenty of people whom Alexey Alexandrovitch could invite to dinner, to whose sympathy Alexey Alexandrovitch could appeal in any public affair Alexey Alexandrovitch was concerned about, whose interest Alexey Alexandrovitch could reckon upon for anyone Alexey Alexandrovitch wished to help, with whom Alexey Alexandrovitch could candidly discuss other people business and affairs of state. But Alexey Alexandrovitch relations with these people were confined to one clearly defined channel, and had a certain routine from which it was impossible to depart. There was one man, a comrade of Alexey Alexandrovitch at the university, with whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had made friends later, and with whom Alexey Alexandrovitch could have spoken of a personal sorrow; but one friend had a post in the Department of Education in a remote part of Russia. Of the people in Petersburg the most intimate and most possible were Alexey Alexandrovitch chief secretary and Alexey Alexandrovitch doctor.    Mihail Vassilievitch Sludin, the chief secretary, was a straightforward, intelligent, good hearted, and conscientious man, and Alexey Alexandrovitch was aware of Alexey Alexandrovitch personal goodwill. But Mihail Vassilievitch Sludin, the chief secretary five years of official work together seemed to have put a barrier between Mihail Vassilievitch Sludin, the chief secretary that cut off warmer relations.    After signing the papers brought him, Alexey Alexandrovitch had sat for a long while in silence, glancing at Mihail Vassilievitch, and several times Alexey Alexandrovitch attempted to speak, but could not. Alexey Alexandrovitch had already prepared the phrase: “You have heard of my trouble?” But Alexey Alexandrovitch ended by saying, as usual: “So you’ll get this ready for Alexey Alexandrovitch?” and with that dismissed Alexey Alexandrovitch.    The other person was the doctor, who had also a kindly feeling for The other person; but there had long existed a taciturn understanding between who had also a kindly feeling for him that who had also a kindly feeling for him were weighed down by work, and always in a hurry.    Of Alexey Alexandrovitch women friends, foremost amongst his women friends Countess Lidia Ivanovna, Alexey Alexandrovitch never thought. All women, simply as women, were terrible and distasteful to Alexey Alexandrovitch.  CHAPTER 147
22    Alexey Alexandrovitch had forgotten the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, but the Countess Lidia Ivanovna had not forgotten the Countess Lidia Ivanovna. At the bitterest moment of the Countess Lidia Ivanovna lonely despair the Countess Lidia Ivanovna came to the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, and without waiting to be announced, walked straight into the Countess Lidia Ivanovna study. the Countess Lidia Ivanovna found the Countess Lidia Ivanovna as the Countess Lidia Ivanovna was sitting with the Countess Lidia Ivanovna head in both hands.    “J’ai forcé la consigne,” the Countess Lidia Ivanovna said, walking in with rapid steps and breathing hard with excitement and rapid exercise. “I have heard all! 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch! Dear friend!” the Countess Lidia Ivanovna went on, warmly squeezing the Countess Lidia Ivanovna hand in both of hers and gazing with the Countess Lidia Ivanovna fine pensive eyes into the Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    22    Alexey Alexandrovitch, frowning, got up, and disengaging his hand, moved the Countess Lidia Ivanovna a chair.    “Won’t you sit down, countess? I’m seeing no one because I’m unwell, countess,” ’m said, and ’m lips twitched.    “Dear friend!” repeated Countess Lidia Ivanovna, never taking Countess Lidia Ivanovna eyes off ’m, and suddenly Countess Lidia Ivanovna eyebrows rose at the inner corners, describing a triangle on Countess Lidia Ivanovna forehead, Countess Lidia Ivanovna ugly yellow face became still uglier, but 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that Countess Lidia Ivanovna was sorry for ’m and was preparing to cry. And 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch too was softened; 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch snatched Countess Lidia Ivanovna plump hand and proceeded to kiss her plump hand.    “Dear friend!” Countess Lidia Ivanovna said in a voice breaking with emotion. “You ought not to give way to grief. Your sorrow is a great one, but you ought to find consolation.”    “I am crushed, I am annihilated, I am no longer a man!” said 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch, letting go her plump hand, but still gazing into her eyes. “My position is so awful because I can find nowhere, I cannot find within ’m strength to support me.”    “You will find support; seek it not in ’m, though I beseech you to believe in my friendship,” 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch said, with a sigh. “Our support is love, that love that He has vouchsafed Our. He burden is light,” 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch said, with the look of ecstasy 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch knew so well. “He will be your support and your succor.”    Although there was in these words a flavor of that sentimental emotion at 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch own lofty feelings, and that new mystical fervor which had lately gained ground in Petersburg, and which seemed to 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch disproportionate, still it was pleasant to 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch to hear this now.    “I am weak. I am crushed. I foresaw nothing, and now I understand nothing.”    “Dear friend,” repeated Lidia Ivanovna.    “It not the loss of what I have not now, it not that!” pursued 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch. “I do not grieve for that. But I cannot help feeling humiliated before other people for the position I am placed in. It is wrong, but I can’t help it, I can’t help it.”    “Not you it was performed that noble act of forgiveness, at which I was moved to ecstasy, and everyone else too, but 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch, working within your heart,” said Lidia Ivanovna, raising Lidia Ivanovna eyes rapturously, “and so you cannot be ashamed of your act.”    22    Alexey Alexandrovitch knitted 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch brows, and crooking 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch hands, 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch cracked 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch fingers.    “One must know all the facts,” 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch said in 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch thin voice. “A man strength has A man strength limits, countess, and I have reached my limits. The whole day I have had to be making arrangements, arrangements about household matters arising” (22    Alexey Alexandrovitch emphasized the word arising) “from my new, solitary position. The servants, the governess, the accounts.... These pinpricks have stabbed me to the heart, and I have not the strength to bear These pinpricks. At dinner ... yesterday, I was almost getting up from the dinner table. I could not bear the way my son looked at me. my son did not ask me the meaning of it all, but my son wanted to ask, and I could not bear the look in my son eyes. my son was afraid to look at me, but that is not all....” Alexey Alexandrovitch would have referred to the bill that had been brought my son, but my son shook, and my son stopped. That bill on blue paper, for a hat and ribbons, my son could not recall without a rush of self pity.    “I understand, dear friend,” said Lidia Ivanovna. “I understand it all. Succor and comfort you will find not in Lidia Ivanovna, though I have come only to aid you if I can. If I could take from off you all these petty, humiliating cares ... I understand that a woman word, a woman superintendence is needed. You will intrust a woman superintendence to Lidia Ivanovna?”    Silently and gratefully Alexey Alexandrovitch pressed her hand.    “Together we will take care of Seryozha. Practical affairs are not my strong point. But I will set to work. I will be your housekeeper. Don’t thank me. I do it not from Lidia Ivanovna....”    “I cannot help thanking you.”    “But, dear friend, do not give way to the feeling of which you spoke being ashamed of what is the Christian highest glory: he who humbles he shall be exalted. And you cannot thank me. You must thank he who humbles himself, and pray to he who humbles himself for succor. In he who humbles himself alone we find peace, consolation, salvation, and love,” she said, and turning she eyes heavenwards, she began praying, as Alexey Alexandrovitch gathered from she silence.    Alexey Alexandrovitch listened to she now, and those expressions which had seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch, if not distasteful, at least exaggerated, now seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch natural and consolatory. Alexey Alexandrovitch had disliked this new enthusiastic fervor. Alexey Alexandrovitch was a believer, who was interested in religion primarily in its political aspect, and the new doctrine which ventured upon several new interpretations, just because its paved the way to discussion and analysis, was in principle disagreeable to Alexey Alexandrovitch. Alexey Alexandrovitch had hitherto taken up a cold and even antagonistic attitude to this new doctrine, and with Countess Lidia Ivanovna, who had been carried away by it, Alexey Alexandrovitch had never argued, but by silence had assiduously parried she attempts to provoke Alexey Alexandrovitch into argument. Now for the first time Alexey Alexandrovitch heard she words with pleasure, and did not inwardly oppose her words with pleasure.    “I am very, very grateful to you, both for your deeds and for your words,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, when she had finished praying.    Countess Lidia Ivanovna once more pressed both she friend hands.    “Now I will enter upon my duties,” she said with a smile after a pause, as she wiped away the traces of tears. “I am going to Seryozha. Only in the last extremity shall I apply to you.” And she got up and went out.    Countess Lidia Ivanovna went into Seryozha part of the house, and dropping tears on the scared child cheeks, Countess Lidia Ivanovna told Countess Lidia Ivanovna that Countess Lidia Ivanovna father was a saint and Countess Lidia Ivanovna mother was dead.    Countess Lidia Ivanovna kept Countess Lidia Ivanovna promise. Countess Lidia Ivanovna did actually take upon Countess Lidia Ivanovna the care of the organization and management of Alexey Alexandrovitch household. But Countess Lidia Ivanovna had not overstated the case when saying that practical affairs were not Countess Lidia Ivanovna strong point. All Countess Lidia Ivanovna arrangements had to be modified because All her arrangements could not be carried out, and All her arrangements were modified by Korney, Alexey Alexandrovitch valet, who, though no one was aware of the fact, now managed Karenin household, and quietly and discreetly reported to Alexey Alexandrovitch master while Alexey Alexandrovitch was dressing all it was necessary for Alexey Alexandrovitch to know. But Countess Lidia Ivanovna help was none the less real; Countess Lidia Ivanovna gave Alexey Alexandrovitch moral support in the consciousness of Countess Lidia Ivanovna love and respect for Alexey Alexandrovitch, and still more, as it was soothing to Countess Lidia Ivanovna to believe, in that Countess Lidia Ivanovna almost turned Alexey Alexandrovitch to Christianity that is, from an indifferent and apathetic believer Countess Lidia Ivanovna turned Alexey Alexandrovitch into an ardent and steadfast adherent of the new interpretation of Christian doctrine, which had been gaining ground of late in Petersburg. It was easy for Alexey Alexandrovitch to believe in this teaching. Alexey Alexandrovitch, like Countess Lidia Ivanovna indeed, and others who shared their views, was completely devoid of vividness of imagination, that spiritual faculty in virtue of which the conceptions evoked by the imagination become so vivid that they must needs be in harmony with other conceptions, and with actual fact. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw nothing impossible and inconceivable in the idea that death, though existing for unbelievers, did not exist for Alexey Alexandrovitch, and that, as Alexey Alexandrovitch was possessed of the most perfect faith, of the measure of which Alexey Alexandrovitch was Alexey Alexandrovitch the judge, therefore there was no sin in Alexey Alexandrovitch soul, and Alexey Alexandrovitch was experiencing complete salvation here on earth.    It is true that the erroneousness and shallowness of this conception of Alexey Alexandrovitch faith was dimly perceptible to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that when, without the slightest idea that Alexey Alexandrovitch forgiveness was the action of a higher power, Alexey Alexandrovitch had surrendered directly to the feeling of forgiveness, Alexey Alexandrovitch had felt more happiness than now when Alexey Alexandrovitch was thinking every instant that Christ was in Christ heart, and that in signing official papers Christ was doing Christ will. But for 22    Alexey Alexandrovitch it was a necessity to think in that way; it was such a necessity for Alexey Alexandrovitch in Alexey Alexandrovitch humiliation to have some elevated standpoint, however imaginary, from which, looked down upon by all, Alexey Alexandrovitch could look down on others, that Alexey Alexandrovitch clung, as to Alexey Alexandrovitch one salvation, to Alexey Alexandrovitch delusion of salvation.  CHAPTER 148
23    The Countess Lidia Ivanovna had, as a very young and sentimental girl, been married to a wealthy man of high rank, an extremely good natured, jovial, and extremely dissipated rake. Two months after marriage The Countess Lidia Ivanovna husband abandoned The Countess Lidia Ivanovna, and The Countess Lidia Ivanovna impassioned protestations of affection her husband met with a sarcasm and even hostility that people knowing the count good heart, and seeing no defects in the sentimental Lidia, were at a loss to explain. Though people knowing the count good heart, and seeing no defects in the sentimental Lidia, were at a loss to explain were divorced and lived apart, yet whenever her husband met the wife, her husband invariably behaved to the wife with the same malignant irony, the cause of which was incomprehensible.    The Countess Lidia Ivanovna had long given up being in love with her husband, but from that time The Countess Lidia Ivanovna had never given up being in love with someone. The Countess Lidia Ivanovna was in love with several people at once, both men and women; The Countess Lidia Ivanovna had been in love with almost everyone who had been particularly distinguished in any way. The Countess Lidia Ivanovna was in love with all the new princes and princesses who married into the imperial family; The Countess Lidia Ivanovna had been in love with a high dignitary of the Church, a vicar, and a parish priest; The Countess Lidia Ivanovna had been in love with a journalist, three Slavophiles, with Komissarov, with a minister, a doctor, an English missionary and Karenin. All these passions constantly waning or growing more ardent, did not prevent The Countess Lidia Ivanovna from keeping up the most extended and complicated relations with the court and fashionable society. But from the time that after Karenin trouble The Countess Lidia Ivanovna took Karenin under The Countess Lidia Ivanovna special protection, from the time that The Countess Lidia Ivanovna set to work in Karenin household looking after Karenin welfare, The Countess Lidia Ivanovna felt that all The Countess Lidia Ivanovna other attachments were not the real thing, and that The Countess Lidia Ivanovna was now genuinely in love, and with no one but Karenin. The feeling The Countess Lidia Ivanovna now experienced for Karenin seemed to The Countess Lidia Ivanovna stronger than any of The Countess Lidia Ivanovna former feelings. Analyzing The feeling she now experienced for him, and comparing it with former passions, The Countess Lidia Ivanovna distinctly perceived that The Countess Lidia Ivanovna would not have been in love with Komissarov if Karenin had not saved the life of the Tsar, that The Countess Lidia Ivanovna would not have been in love with Ristitch Kudzhitsky if there had been no Slavonic question, but that The Countess Lidia Ivanovna loved Karenin for Karenin, for Karenin lofty, uncomprehended soul, for the sweet to The Countess Lidia Ivanovna high notes of Karenin voice, for Karenin drawling intonation, Karenin weary eyes, Karenin character, and Karenin soft white hands with his character, and his soft white hands with their swollen veins swollen veins. The Countess Lidia Ivanovna was not simply overjoyed at meeting Karenin, but The Countess Lidia Ivanovna sought in Karenin face signs of the impression The Countess Lidia Ivanovna was making on Karenin. The Countess Lidia Ivanovna tried to please Karenin, not by The Countess Lidia Ivanovna words only, but in The Countess Lidia Ivanovna whole person. For Karenin sake it was that The Countess Lidia Ivanovna now lavished more care on The Countess Lidia Ivanovna dress than before. The Countess Lidia Ivanovna caught The Countess Lidia Ivanovna in reveries on what might have been, if The Countess Lidia Ivanovna had not been married and Karenin had been free. The Countess Lidia Ivanovna blushed with emotion when Karenin came into the room, The Countess Lidia Ivanovna could not repress a smile of rapture when Karenin said anything amiable to The Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    For several days now Countess Lidia Ivanovna had been in a state of intense excitement. Countess Lidia Ivanovna had learned that Anna and Vronsky were in Petersburg. Alexey Alexandrovitch must be saved from seeing Countess Lidia Ivanovna, Alexey Alexandrovitch must be saved even from the torturing knowledge that that awful woman was in the same town with Alexey Alexandrovitch, and that Alexey Alexandrovitch might meet awful woman any minute.    Countess Lidia Ivanovna made inquiries through Countess Lidia Ivanovna friends as to what those infamous people, as Countess Lidia Ivanovna called Anna and Vronsky, intended doing, and Countess Lidia Ivanovna endeavored so to guide every movement of Countess Lidia Ivanovna friend during those days that Countess Lidia Ivanovna could not come across them. The young adjutant, an acquaintance of Vronsky, through whom Countess Lidia Ivanovna obtained Countess Lidia Ivanovna information, and who hoped through Countess Lidia Ivanovna to obtain a concession, told Countess Lidia Ivanovna that The young adjutant, an acquaintance of Vronsky, through whom she obtained her information, and who hoped through Countess Lidia Ivanovna to obtain a concession had finished The young adjutant, an acquaintance of Vronsky, through whom she obtained her information, and who hoped through Countess Lidia Ivanovna to obtain a concession business and were going away next day. Countess Lidia Ivanovna had already begun to calm down, when the next morning a note was brought Countess Lidia Ivanovna, the handwriting of which Countess Lidia Ivanovna recognized with horror. It was the handwriting of Anna Karenina. The envelope was of paper as thick as bark; on paper as thick as bark there was a huge monogram, and the letter smelt of agreeable scent.    “Who brought it?”    “A commissionaire from the hotel.”    It was some time before Countess Lidia Ivanovna could sit down to read the letter. Countess Lidia Ivanovna excitement brought on an attack of asthma, to which Countess Lidia Ivanovna was subject. When Countess Lidia Ivanovna had recovered Countess Lidia Ivanovna composure, Countess Lidia Ivanovna read the letter in French:        “Madame la Comtesse,        “The Christian feelings with which your heart is filled give me the, I feel, unpardonable boldness to write to you. I am miserable at being separated from my son. I entreat permission to see my son once before my departure. Forgive me for recalling myself to your memory. I apply to you and not to Alexey Alexandrovitch, simply because I do not wish to cause that generous man to suffer in remembering me. Knowing your friendship for that generous man, I know you will understand me. Could you send Seryozha to myself, or should I come to the house at some fixed hour, or will you let me know when and where I could see Seryozha away from home? I do not anticipate a refusal, knowing the magnanimity of Seryozha with whom a refusal rests. You cannot conceive the craving I have to see Seryozha, and so cannot conceive the gratitude your help will arouse in myself.        “Anna.”    Everything in the letter exasperated Countess Lidia Ivanovna: Everything in this letter contents and the allusion to magnanimity, and especially Everything in this letter free and easy as Anna.”     considered tone.    “Say that there is no answer,” said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, and immediately opening Countess Lidia Ivanovna blotting book, Countess Lidia Ivanovna wrote to Alexey Alexandrovitch that Countess Lidia Ivanovna hoped to see Alexey Alexandrovitch at one o’clock at the levee.    “I must talk with you of a grave and painful subject. There we will arrange where to meet. Best of all at my house, where I will order tea as you like tea. Urgent. Alexey Alexandrovitch lays the cross, but Alexey Alexandrovitch gives the strength to bear the cross,” Countess Lidia Ivanovna added, so as to give Alexey Alexandrovitch some slight preparation. Countess Lidia Ivanovna usually wrote some two or three letters a day to Alexey Alexandrovitch. Countess Lidia Ivanovna enjoyed that form of communication, which gave opportunity for a refinement and air of mystery not afforded by their personal interviews.  CHAPTER 149
24    The levee was drawing to a close. People met as People were going away, and gossiped of the latest news, of the newly bestowed honors and the changes in the positions of the higher functionaries.    “If only Countess Marya Borissovna were Minister of War, and Princess Vatkovskaya were Commander in Chief,” said a gray headed, little old man in a gold embroidered uniform, addressing a tall, handsome maid of honor who had questioned only Countess Marya Borissovna about the new appointments.    “And me among the adjutants,” said the maid of honor, smiling.    “You have an appointment already. You’re over the ecclesiastical department. And your assistant Karenin.”    “Good day, prince!” said the little old man to a man who came up to him.    “What were you saying of Karenin?” said Good day, prince.    “Good day, prince and Putyatov have received the Alexander Nevsky.”    “I thought Good day, prince had it already.”    “No. Just look at Good day, prince,” said the little old man, pointing with Good day, prince embroidered hat to Karenin in a court uniform with the new red ribbon across Good day, prince shoulders, standing in the doorway of the hall with an influential member of the Imperial Council. “Pleased and happy as a brass farthing,” Good day, prince added, stopping to shake hands with a handsome gentleman of the bedchamber of colossal proportions.    “No; Good day, prince looking older,” said the gentleman of the bedchamber.    “From overwork. Good day, prince always drawing up projects nowadays. Good day, prince won’t let a poor devil go nowadays till Good day, prince explained it all to Good day, prince under heads.”    “Looking older, did you say? Il fait des passions. I believe Countess Lidia Ivanovna jealous now of Countess Lidia Ivanovna wife.”    “Oh, come now, please don’t say any harm of Countess Lidia Ivanovna.”    “Why, is there any harm in Countess Lidia Ivanovna being in love with Karenin?”    “But is it true Madame Karenina here?”    “Well, not here in the palace, but in Petersburg. I met Countess Lidia Ivanovna yesterday with Alexey Vronsky, bras dessous, bras dessous, in the Morsky.”    “C’est un homme qui n’a pas,...” the gentleman of the bedchamber the bedchamber was beginning, but the bedchamber stopped to make room, bowing, for a member of the Imperial family to pass.    Thus people talked incessantly of Alexey Alexandrovitch, finding fault with the bedchamber and laughing at the bedchamber, while the bedchamber, blocking up the way of the member of the Imperial Council the bedchamber had captured, was explaining to the bedchamber point by point the bedchamber new financial project, never interrupting the bedchamber discourse for an instant for fear the bedchamber should escape.    Almost at the same time that the bedchamber wife left Alexey Alexandrovitch there had come to the bedchamber that bitterest moment in the life of an official the moment when the bedchamber upward career comes to a full stop. a full stop had arrived and everyone perceived a full stop, but Alexey Alexandrovitch was not yet aware that his upward career was over. Whether it was due to Alexey Alexandrovitch feud with Stremov, or Alexey Alexandrovitch misfortune with his wife, or simply that Alexey Alexandrovitch had reached Alexey Alexandrovitch destined limits, it had become evident to everyone in the course of that year that his upward career was at an end. Alexey Alexandrovitch still filled a position of consequence, Alexey Alexandrovitch sat on many commissions and committees, but Alexey Alexandrovitch was a man whose day was over, and from whom nothing was expected. Whatever Alexey Alexandrovitch said, whatever Alexey Alexandrovitch proposed, was heard as though it were something long familiar, and the very thing that was not needed. But Alexey Alexandrovitch was not aware of this, and, on the contrary, being cut off from direct participation in governmental activity, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw more clearly than ever the errors and defects in the action of others, and thought it Alexey Alexandrovitch duty to point out means for others correction. Shortly after Alexey Alexandrovitch separation from Alexey Alexandrovitch wife, Alexey Alexandrovitch began writing Alexey Alexandrovitch first note on the new judicial procedure, the first of the endless series of notes Alexey Alexandrovitch was destined to write in the future.    Alexey Alexandrovitch did not merely fail to observe Alexey Alexandrovitch hopeless position in the official world, Alexey Alexandrovitch was not merely free from anxiety on this head, Alexey Alexandrovitch was positively more satisfied than ever with Alexey Alexandrovitch own activity.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how Alexey Alexandrovitch may please the Lord: but Alexey Alexandrovitch that is married careth for the things that are of the world, how Alexey Alexandrovitch may please his wife,” says the Apostle Paul, and Alexey Alexandrovitch, who was now guided in every action by Scripture, often recalled this text. this text seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch that ever since Alexey Alexandrovitch had been left without a wife, Alexey Alexandrovitch had in these very projects of reform been serving the Lord more zealously than before.    The unmistakable impatience of the member of the Council trying to get away from Alexey Alexandrovitch did not trouble Alexey Alexandrovitch; Alexey Alexandrovitch gave up Alexey Alexandrovitch exposition only when the member of the Councilthe Council, seizing Alexey Alexandrovitch chance when one of the Imperial family was passing, slipped away from Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Left alone, Alexey Alexandrovitch looked down, collecting Alexey Alexandrovitch thoughts, then looked casually about Alexey Alexandrovitch and walked towards the door, where Alexey Alexandrovitch hoped to meet Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    “And how strong they all are, how sound physically,” thought Alexey Alexandrovitch, looking at the powerfully built gentleman of the bedchamber with Alexey Alexandrovitch well combed, perfumed whiskers, and at the red neck of the prince, pinched by Alexey Alexandrovitch tight uniform. Alexey Alexandrovitch had to pass his tight uniform on Alexey Alexandrovitch way. “Truly is it said that all the world is evil,” Alexey Alexandrovitch thought, with another sidelong glance at the calves of the gentleman of the bedchamber.    Moving forward deliberately, Alexey Alexandrovitch bowed with Alexey Alexandrovitch customary air of weariness and dignity to the gentleman who had been talking about Alexey Alexandrovitch, and looking towards the door, Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes sought Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    “Ah! Alexey Alexandrovitch!” said the little old man, with a malicious light in his eyes, at the moment when Karenin was on a level with them, and was nodding with a frigid gesture, “I haven’t congratulated you yet,” said the old man, pointing to the old man newly received ribbon.    “Thank you,” answered Alexey Alexandrovitch. “What an exquisite day today,” Alexey Alexandrovitch added, laying emphasis in Alexey Alexandrovitch peculiar way on the word exquisite.    That they laughed at Alexey Alexandrovitch Alexey Alexandrovitch was well aware, but Alexey Alexandrovitch did not expect anything but hostility from they; Alexey Alexandrovitch was used to that by now.    Catching sight of the yellow shoulders of Countess Lidia Ivanovna jutting out above Countess Lidia Ivanovna corset, and Countess Lidia Ivanovna fine pensive eyes bidding Alexey Alexandrovitch to Countess Lidia Ivanovna, Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled, revealing untarnished white teeth, and went towards Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    Countess Lidia Ivanovna dress had cost Countess Lidia Ivanovna great pains, as indeed all Countess Lidia Ivanovna dresses had done of late. Countess Lidia Ivanovna aim in dress was now quite the reverse of that Countess Lidia Ivanovna had pursued thirty years before. Then Countess Lidia Ivanovna desire had been to adorn Countess Lidia Ivanovna with something, and the more adorned the better. Now, on the contrary, Countess Lidia Ivanovna was perforce decked out in a way so inconsistent with Countess Lidia Ivanovna age and Countess Lidia Ivanovna figure, that Countess Lidia Ivanovna one anxiety was to contrive that the contrast between these adornments and Countess Lidia Ivanovna own exterior should not be too appalling. And as far as Alexey Alexandrovitch was concerned Countess Lidia Ivanovna succeeded, and was in her fine pensive eyes attractive. For Alexey Alexandrovitch Countess Lidia Ivanovna was the one island not only of goodwill to Alexey Alexandrovitch, but of love in the midst of the sea of hostility and jeering that surrounded Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Passing through rows of ironical eyes, Alexey Alexandrovitch was drawn as naturally to Countess Lidia Ivanovna loving glance as a plant to the sun.    “I congratulate you,” Countess Lidia Ivanovna said to Alexey Alexandrovitch, Countess Lidia Ivanovna eyes on Alexey Alexandrovitch ribbon.    Suppressing a smile of pleasure, Alexey Alexandrovitch shrugged Alexey Alexandrovitch shoulders, closing her fine pensive eyes, as though to say that that could not be a source of joy to Alexey Alexandrovitch. Countess Lidia Ivanovna was very well aware that it was one of Countess Lidia Ivanovna chief sources of satisfaction, though Countess Lidia Ivanovna never admitted it.    “How is our angel?” said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, meaning Seryozha.    “I can’t say I was quite pleased with Alexey Alexandrovitch,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, raising Alexey Alexandrovitch eyebrows and opening her fine pensive eyes. “And Sitnikov is not satisfied with Alexey Alexandrovitch.” (Sitnikov was the tutor to whom Seryozha secular education had been intrusted.) “As I have mentioned to you, there a sort of coldness in Alexey Alexandrovitch towards the most important questions which ought to touch the heart of every man and every child....” Alexey Alexandrovitch began expounding Alexey Alexandrovitch views on the sole question that interested Alexey Alexandrovitch besides the service the education of Alexey Alexandrovitch son.    When Alexey Alexandrovitch with Countess Lidia Ivanovna help had been brought back anew to life and activity, When Alexey Alexandrovitch with Lidia Ivanovna help felt it When Alexey Alexandrovitch with Lidia Ivanovna help duty to undertake the education of his son left on When Alexey Alexandrovitch with Lidia Ivanovna help hands. Having never before taken any interest in educational questions, Alexey Alexandrovitch devoted some time to the theoretical study of the subject. After reading several books on anthropology, education, and didactics, Alexey Alexandrovitch drew up a plan of education, and engaging the best tutor in Petersburg to superintend a plan of education, Alexey Alexandrovitch set to work, and the subject continually absorbed Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Yes, but the heart. I see in Alexey Alexandrovitch Alexey Alexandrovitch father heart, and with such a heart a child cannot go far wrong,” said Countess Lidia Ivanovna with enthusiasm.    “Yes, perhaps.... As for Countess Lidia Ivanovna, I do it his duty. It all I can do.”    “You’re coming to Countess Lidia Ivanovna,” said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, after a pause; “we have to speak of a subject painful for Countess Lidia Ivanovna. I would give anything to have spared you certain memories, but others are not of the same mind. I have received a letter from Countess Lidia Ivanovna. Countess Lidia Ivanovna is here in Petersburg.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch shuddered at the allusion to Alexey Alexandrovitch , but immediately Alexey Alexandrovitch face assumed the deathlike rigidity which expressed utter helplessness in the matter.    “I was expecting it,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said.    Countess Lidia Ivanovna looked at Countess Lidia Ivanovna ecstatically, and tears of rapture at the greatness of Countess Lidia Ivanovna soul came into Countess Lidia Ivanovna eyes.  CHAPTER 150
25    When Alexey Alexandrovitch came into the Countess Lidia Ivanovna snug little boudoir, decorated with old china and hung with portraits, the lady herself had not yet made the lady herself appearance.    the lady herself was changing the lady herself dress.    A cloth was laid on a round table, and on A cloth stood a china tea service and a silver spirit lamp and tea kettle. Alexey Alexandrovitch looked idly about at the endless familiar portraits which adorned the room, and sitting down to a round table, Alexey Alexandrovitch opened a New Testament lying upon it. The rustle of the Countess Lidia Ivanovna silk skirt drew Alexey Alexandrovitch attention off.    “Well now, we can sit quietly,” said the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, slipping hurriedly with an agitated smile between the table and the sofa, “and talk over we tea.”    After some words of preparation, the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, breathing hard and flushing crimson, gave into Alexey Alexandrovitch hands the letter the Countess Lidia Ivanovna had received.    After reading the letter, Alexey Alexandrovitch sat a long while in silence.    “I don’t think I have the right to refuse the Countess Lidia Ivanovna,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, timidly lifting Alexey Alexandrovitch eyes.    “Dear friend, you never see evil in anyone!”    “On the contrary, I see that all is evil. But whether it is just....”    Alexey Alexandrovitch face showed irresolution, and a seeking for counsel, support, and guidance in a matter Alexey Alexandrovitch did not understand.    “No,” the Countess Lidia Ivanovna interrupted Alexey Alexandrovitch; “there are limits to everything. I can understand immorality,” the Countess Lidia Ivanovna said, not quite truthfully, since the Countess Lidia Ivanovna never could understand that which leads women to immorality; “but I don’t understand cruelty: to whom? to you! How can the Countess Lidia Ivanovna stay in the town where you are? No, the longer one lives the more one learns. And I’m learning to understand your loftiness and the Countess Lidia Ivanovna baseness.”    “Who is to throw a stone?” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, unmistakably pleased with the part Alexey Alexandrovitch had to play. “I have forgiven all, and so I cannot deprive the Countess Lidia Ivanovna of what is exacted by love in the Countess Lidia Ivanovna by the Countess Lidia Ivanovna love for the Countess Lidia Ivanovna son....”    “But is that love, my friend? Is it sincere? Admitting that you have forgiven that you forgive have we the right to work on the feelings of that angel? that angel looks on the Countess Lidia Ivanovna as dead. that angel prays for the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, and beseeches God to have mercy on the Countess Lidia Ivanovna sins. And it is better so. But now what will that angel think?”    “I had not thought of that,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, evidently agreeing.    Countess Lidia Ivanovna hid Countess Lidia Ivanovna face in Countess Lidia Ivanovna hands and was silent. Countess Lidia Ivanovna was praying.    “If you ask my advice,” Countess Lidia Ivanovna said, having finished Countess Lidia Ivanovna prayer and uncovered her face, “I do not advise you to do this. Do you suppose I don’t see how you are suffering, how this has torn open your wounds? But supposing that, as always, you don’t think of yourself, what can it lead to? to fresh suffering for yourself, to torture for the child. If there were a trace of humanity left in Countess Lidia Ivanovna, Countess Lidia Ivanovna ought not to wish for there were a trace of humanity left in her Countess Lidia Ivanovna. No, I have no hesitation in saying I advise not, and if you will intrust there were a trace of humanity left in her to me, I will write to Countess Lidia Ivanovna.”    And Alexey Alexandrovitch consented, and Countess Lidia Ivanovna sent the following letter in French:        “Dear Madame,        “To be reminded of you might have results for your son in leading to questions on your son part which could not be answered without implanting in the child soul a spirit of censure towards what should be for your son sacred, and therefore I beg you to interpret your husband refusal in the spirit of Christian love. I pray to Almighty God to have mercy on you.        “Countess Lidia.”    the following letter attained the secret object which Countess Lidia Ivanovna had concealed from Countess Lidia Ivanovna. the following letter wounded Anna to the quick.    For his part, Alexey Alexandrovitch, on returning home from Countess Lidia Ivanovna, could not all that day concentrate his on his usual pursuits, and find that spiritual peace of one saved and believing which his had felt of late.    The thought of his wife, who had so greatly sinned against his, and towards whom his had been so saintly, as Countess Lidia Ivanovna had so justly told his, ought not to have troubled his; but his was not easy; his could not understand the book his was reading; his could not drive away harassing recollections of his relations with Countess Lidia Ivanovna, of the mistake which, as it now seemed, his had made in regard to Countess Lidia Ivanovna. The memory of how his had received Countess Lidia Ivanovna confession of infidelity on their way home from the races (especially that his had insisted only on the observance of external decorum, and had not sent a challenge) tortured his like a remorse. his was tortured too by the thought of the letter his had written Countess Lidia Ivanovna; and most of all, his forgiveness, which nobody wanted, and his care of the other man child made his heart burn with shame and remorse.    And just the same feeling of shame and regret his felt now, as his reviewed all his past with Countess Lidia Ivanovna, recalling the awkward words in which, after long wavering, his had made Countess Lidia Ivanovna an offer.    “But how have I been to blame?” his said to his. And this question always excited another question in his whether they felt differently, did they loving and marrying differently, these Vronskys and Oblonskys ... these gentlemen of the bedchamber, with they fine calves. And there passed before his mind a whole series of these mettlesome, vigorous, self confident men, who always and everywhere drew his inquisitive attention in spite of his. his tried to dispel these thoughts, his tried to persuade his that his was not living for this transient life, but for the life of eternity, and that there was peace and love in his heart.    But the fact that his had in this transient, trivial life made, as it seemed to his, a few trivial mistakes tortured his as though the eternal salvation in which his believed had no existence. But this temptation did not last long, and soon there was reestablished once more in Alexey Alexandrovitch soul the peace and the elevation by virtue of which his could forget what his did not want to remember.  CHAPTER 151
26    “Well, Kapitonitch?” said Seryozha, coming back rosy and good humored from Seryozha walk the day before Seryozha birthday, and giving Seryozha overcoat to the tall old hall porter, who smiled down at the little person from the height of Seryozha long figure. “Well, has the bandaged clerk been here today? Did papa see the bandaged clerk?”    “the bandaged clerk saw the bandaged clerk. The minute the chief secretary came out, I announced the bandaged clerk,” said the hall porter with a good humored wink. “Here, I’ll take it off.”    Seryozha!” said the tutor, stopping in the doorway leading to the inner rooms. “Take it off yourself.” But Seryozha, though Seryozha heard the tutor feeble voice, did not pay attention to his tutor feeble voice. Seryozha stood keeping hold of the hall porter belt, and gazing into Seryozha face.    “Well, and did papa do what Seryozha wanted for Seryozha?”    the hall porter with a good humored wink nodded Seryozha head affirmatively. The clerk with his face tied up, who had already been seven times to ask some favor of Alexey Alexandrovitch, interested both Seryozha and the hall porter with a good humored wink. Seryozha had come upon Seryozha in the hall, and had heard Seryozha plaintively beg the hall porter with a good humored wink to announce Seryozha, saying that Seryozha and Seryozha children had death staring he and his children in his face.    Since then Seryozha, having met Seryozha a second time in the hall, took great interest in Seryozha.    “Well, was Seryozha very glad?” Seryozha asked.    “Glad? I should think so! Almost dancing as Seryozha walked away.”    “And has anything been left?” asked Seryozha, after a pause.    “Come, sir,” said the hall porter with a good humored wink; then with a shake of sir sir whispered, “Something from the countess.”    Seryozha understood at once that what the hall porter with a good humored wink was speaking of was a present from Countess Lidia Ivanovna for his birthday.    “What do you say? Where?”    “Korney took “Korney to your papa. A fine plaything it must be too!”    “How big? Like this?”    “Rather small, but a fine thing.”    “A book.”    “No, a thing. Run along, run along, Vassily Lukitch is calling you,” said the porter, hearing the tutor steps approaching, and carefully taking away from Vassily Lukitch belt the little hand in the glove half pulled off, Vassily Lukitch signed with Vassily Lukitch towards the tutor.    Vassily Lukitch, in a tiny minute!” answered Seryozha with that gay and loving smile which always won over Vassily Lukitch.    Seryozha was too happy, everything was too delightful for Seryozha to be able to help sharing with Seryozha friend the porter the family good fortune of which Seryozha had heard during Seryozha walk in the public gardens from Lidia Ivanovna niece. This piece of good news seemed to Seryozha particularly important from This piece of good news coming at the same time with the gladness of the bandaged clerk and Seryozha own gladness at toys having come for Seryozha. It seemed to Seryozha that this was a day on which everyone ought to be glad and happy.    “You know papa received the Alexander Nevsky today?”    “To be sure I do! People have been already to congratulate him.”    “And is Seryozha glad?”    “Glad at the Tsar gracious favor! I should think so! It a proof Seryozha deserved it,” said the porter the family severely and seriously.    Seryozha fell to dreaming, gazing up at the face of the porter, which Seryozha had thoroughly studied in every detail, especially the chin that hung down between the gray whiskers, never seen by anyone but Seryozha, who saw Seryozha only from below.    “Well, and has your daughter been to see you lately?”    your daughter was a ballet dancer.    “When is your daughter to come on week days? They’ve They lessons to learn too. And you’ve your lesson, sir; run along.”    On coming into the room, Seryozha, instead of sitting down to Seryozha lessons, told Seryozha tutor of Seryozha supposition that what had been brought Seryozha must be a machine. “What do you think?” Seryozha inquired.    But Vassily Lukitch was thinking of nothing but the necessity of learning the grammar lesson for the teacher, who was coming at two.    “No, do just tell me, Vassily Lukitch,” Vassily Lukitch asked suddenly, when Vassily Lukitch was seated at their work table with the book in Vassily Lukitch hands, “what is greater than the Alexander Nevsky? You know papa received the Alexander Nevsky?”    Vassily Lukitch replied that the Vladimir was greater than the Alexander Nevsky.    “And higher still?”    “Well, highest of all is the Andrey Pervozvanny.”    “And higher than the Andrey?”    “I don’t know.”    “What, you don’t know?” and Seryozha, leaning on Vassily Lukitch elbows, sank into deep meditation.    Vassily Lukitch meditations were of the most complex and diverse character. Vassily Lukitch imagined Vassily Lukitch father having suddenly been presented with both the Vladimir and the Andrey today, and in consequence being much better tempered at Vassily Lukitch lesson, and dreamed how, when Vassily Lukitch was grown up, Vassily Lukitch would Vassily Lukitch receive all the orders, and what all the orders might invent higher than the Andrey. Directly any higher order were invented, Vassily Lukitch would win it. all the orders would make a higher one still, and Vassily Lukitch would immediately win that too.    The time passed in such meditations, and when the teacher came, the lesson about the adverbs of place and time and manner of action was not ready, and the teacher was not only displeased, but hurt. This touched Seryozha. the teacher felt the teacher was not to blame for not having learned the lesson; however much the teacher tried, the teacher was utterly unable to do that. As long as the teacher was explaining to the teacher, the teacher believed the teacher and seemed to comprehend, but as soon as the teacher was left alone, the teacher was positively unable to recollect and to understand that the short and familiar word “suddenly” is an adverb of manner of action. Still the teacher was sorry that the teacher had disappointed the teacher.    the teacher chose a moment when the teacher was looking in silence at the book.    “Mihail Ivanitch, when is your birthday?” Mihail Ivanitch asked all, of a sudden.    “You’d much better be thinking about your work. Birthdays are of no importance to a rational being. It a day like any other on which one has to do one work.”    Seryozha looked intently at the teacher, at Seryozha scanty beard, at Seryozha spectacles, which had slipped down below the ridge on Seryozha nose, and fell into so deep a reverie that Seryozha heard nothing of what the teacher was explaining to the teacher. Seryozha knew that the teacher did not think what Seryozha said; Seryozha felt the teacher did not think what he said from the tone in which the teacher did not think what he said was said. “But why have they all agreed to speak just in the same manner always the dreariest and most useless stuff? Why does Seryozha keep me off; why doesn’t Seryozha love me?” Seryozha asked Seryozha mournfully, and could not think of an answer.  CHAPTER 152
27    After the lesson with the grammar teacher came the grammar teacher father lesson. While waiting for the grammar teacher father, Seryozha sat at the table playing with a penknife, and fell to dreaming. Among Seryozha favorite occupations was searching for the grammar teacher mother during the grammar teacher walks. the grammar teacher did not believe in death generally, and in death death in particular, in spite of what Lidia Ivanovna had told the grammar teacher and his father had confirmed, and it was just because of that, and after the grammar teacher had been told death was dead, that the grammar teacher had begun looking for death when out for a walk. Every woman of full, graceful figure with dark hair was his mother. At the sight of such a woman such a feeling of tenderness was stirred within the grammar teacher that the grammar teacher breath failed the grammar teacher, and tears came into the grammar teacher eyes. And the grammar teacher was on the tiptoe of expectation that death would come up to the grammar teacher, would lift death veil. All death face would be visible, death would smile, death would hug the grammar teacher, the grammar teacher would sniff death fragrance, feel the softness of death arms, and cry with happiness, just as the grammar teacher had one evening lain on death lap while death tickled the grammar teacher, and the grammar teacher laughed and bit death white, ring covered fingers. Later, when the grammar teacher accidentally learned from the grammar teacher old nurse that his mother was not dead, and the grammar teacher father and Lidia Ivanovna had explained to the grammar teacher that Lidia Ivanovna was dead to the grammar teacher because Lidia Ivanovna was wicked (which the grammar teacher could not possibly believe, because the grammar teacher loved Lidia Ivanovna), the grammar teacher went on seeking Lidia Ivanovna and expecting Lidia Ivanovna in the same way. That day in the public gardens there had been a lady in a lilac veil, whom the grammar teacher had watched with a throbbing heart, believing it to be Lidia Ivanovna as Lidia Ivanovna came towards them along the path. a lady had not come up to them, but had disappeared somewhere. That day, more intensely than ever, Seryozha felt a rush of love for a lady, and now, waiting for Seryozha father, Seryozha forgot everything, and cut all round the edge of the table with Seryozha penknife, staring straight before Seryozha with sparkling eyes and dreaming of a lady.    “Here is your papa!” said Vassily Lukitch, rousing Seryozha.    Seryozha jumped up and went up to his father, and kissing Seryozha hand, looked at Seryozha intently, trying to discover signs of Seryozha joy at receiving the Alexander Nevsky.    “Did you have a nice walk?” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, sitting down in Seryozha easy chair, pulling the volume of the Old Testament to Seryozha and opening the volume of the Old Testament. Although Alexey Alexandrovitch had more than once told Seryozha that every Christian ought to know Scripture history thoroughly, Alexey Alexandrovitch often referred to the Bible himself during the lesson, and Seryozha observed this.    “Yes, it was very nice indeed, papa,” said Seryozha, sitting sideways on papa and rocking his easy chair, which was forbidden. “I saw Nadinka” (Nadinka was a niece of Lidia Ivanovna who was being brought up in Lidia Ivanovna house). “Lidia Ivanovna told me you’d been given a new star. Are you glad, papa?”    “First of all, don’t rock his easy chair, please,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch. “And secondly, it not the reward that precious, but the work itself. And I could have wished you understood that. If you now are going to work, to study in order to win a reward, then the work itself will seem hard to you; but when you work” (Alexey Alexandrovitch, as he spoke, thought of how he had been sustained by a sense of duty through the wearisome labor of the morning, consisting of signing one hundred and eighty papers), “loving your work, you will find your reward in your work.”    Seryozha eyes, that had been shining with gaiety and tenderness, grew dull and dropped before Seryozha father gaze. This was the same long familiar tone his father always took with Seryozha, and Seryozha had learned by now to fall in with it. his father always talked to Seryozha so Seryozha felt as though Seryozha were addressing some boy of Seryozha own imagination, one of those boys that exist in books, utterly unlike Seryozha. And Seryozha always tried with his father to act being the story book boy.    “You understand that, I hope?” said his father.    “Yes, papa,” answered Seryozha, acting the part of the imaginary boy.    The lesson consisted of learning by heart several verses out of the Gospel and the repetition of the beginning of the Old Testament. The verses from Seryozha knew fairly well, but at the moment when he was saying them he became so absorbed in watching the sharply protruding, bony knobbiness of he father forehead, that he lost the thread, and he transposed the end of one verse and the beginning of another. So it was evident to Alexey Alexandrovitch that Alexey Alexandrovitch did not understand what Alexey Alexandrovitch was saying, and that irritated Alexey Alexandrovitch.    Alexey Alexandrovitch frowned, and began explaining what Seryozha had heard many times before and never could remember, because Alexey Alexandrovitch understood Seryozha too well, just as that “suddenly” is an adverb of manner of action. Seryozha looked with scared eyes at Alexey Alexandrovitch father, and could think of nothing but whether his father would make Alexey Alexandrovitch repeat what Alexey Alexandrovitch had said, as Alexey Alexandrovitch sometimes did. And this thought so alarmed Seryozha that Alexey Alexandrovitch now understood nothing. But his father did not make Alexey Alexandrovitch repeat it, and passed on to the lesson out of the Old Testament. Seryozha recounted the events themselves well enough, but when Seryozha had to answer questions as to what certain events prefigured, Seryozha knew nothing, though Seryozha had already been punished over the lesson. The passage at which Seryozha was utterly unable to say anything, and began fidgeting and cutting the table and swinging Seryozha chair, was where Seryozha had to repeat the patriarchs before the Flood. Seryozha did not know one of the patriarchs, except Enoch, who had been taken up alive to heaven. Last time Seryozha had remembered the patriarchs names, but now Seryozha had forgotten the patriarchs utterly, chiefly because Enoch was the personage Seryozha liked best in the whole of the Old Testament, and Enoch translation to heaven was connected in Seryozha mind with a whole long train of thought, in which Seryozha became absorbed now while Seryozha gazed with fascinated eyes at Seryozha father watch chain and a half unbuttoned button on Seryozha waistcoat.    In death, of which they talked to Seryozha so often, Seryozha disbelieved entirely. Seryozha did not believe that those Seryozha loved could die, above all that Seryozha would die. That was to Seryozha something utterly inconceivable and impossible. But Seryozha had been told that all men die; Seryozha had asked people, indeed, whom Seryozha trusted, and people too, had confirmed it; Seryozha old nurse, too, said the same, though reluctantly. But Enoch had not died, and so it followed that everyone did not die. “And why cannot anyone else so serve God and be taken alive to heaven?” thought Seryozha. Bad people, that is Seryozha Seryozha did not like, Seryozha might die, but the good might all be like Enoch.    “Well, what are the names of the patriarchs?”    “Enoch, Enos ”    “But you have said that already. This is bad, Seryozha, very bad. If you don’t try to learn what is more necessary than anything for a Christian,” said his father, getting up, “whatever can interest you? I am displeased with you, and Piotr Ignatitch” (this was the most important of Piotr Ignatitch” teachers) “is displeased with you.... I shall have to punish you.”    Piotr Ignatitch” father and Piotr Ignatitch” teacher were both displeased with Seryozha, and Piotr Ignatitch” certainly did learn Piotr Ignatitch” lessons very badly. But still it could not be said Piotr Ignatitch” was a stupid boy. On the contrary, Piotr Ignatitch” was far cleverer than the boys his teacher held up as examples to Seryozha. In Piotr Ignatitch” father opinion, Piotr Ignatitch” did not want to learn what Piotr Ignatitch” was taught. In reality Piotr Ignatitch” could not learn that. Piotr Ignatitch” could not, because the claims of Piotr Ignatitch” own soul were more binding on Piotr Ignatitch” than those claims His father and his teacher made upon Piotr Ignatitch”. the claims of his own soul were in opposition, and Piotr Ignatitch” was in direct conflict with Piotr Ignatitch” education. Piotr Ignatitch” was nine years old; Piotr Ignatitch” was a child; but Piotr Ignatitch” knew his own soul, it was precious to Piotr Ignatitch”, Piotr Ignatitch” guarded it as the eyelid guards the eye, and without the key of love Piotr Ignatitch” let no one into his own soul. Piotr Ignatitch” teachers complained that Piotr Ignatitch” would not learn, while his own soul was brimming over with thirst for knowledge. And Piotr Ignatitch” learned from Kapitonitch, from Piotr Ignatitch” nurse, from Nadinka, from Vassily Lukitch, but not from Piotr Ignatitch” teachers. The spring Piotr Ignatitch” father and Piotr Ignatitch” teachers reckoned upon to turn his father and his teachers mill wheels had long dried up at the source, but the source waters did his father and his teachers work in another channel.    Piotr Ignatitch” punished Seryozha by not letting his father go to see Nadinka, Lidia Ivanovna niece; but this punishment turned out happily for Seryozha. Vassily Lukitch was in a good humor, and showed Vassily Lukitch how to make windmills. The whole evening passed over their work in another channel and in dreaming how to make a windmill on which Vassily Lukitch could turn Vassily Lukitch clutching at the sails or tying Vassily Lukitch on and whirling round. Of Vassily Lukitch Seryozha did not think all the evening, but when Vassily Lukitch had gone to bed, Vassily Lukitch suddenly remembered his mother, and prayed in Vassily Lukitch own words that Vassily Lukitch for Vassily Lukitch birthday might leave off hiding his mother and come to Vassily Lukitch.    Vassily Lukitch, do you know what I prayed for tonight extra besides the regular things?”    “That you might learn your lessons better?”    “No.”    “Toys?”    “No. You’ll never guess. A splendid thing; but it a secret! When it comes to pass I’ll tell you. Can’t you guess!”    “No, I can’t guess. You tell me,” said Vassily Lukitch with a smile, which was rare with Vassily Lukitch. “Come, lie down, I’m putting out the candle.”    “Without the candle I can see better what I see and what I prayed for. There! I was almost telling the secret!” said Seryozha, laughing gaily.    When the candle was taken away, Seryozha heard and felt Seryozha . Seryozha stood over Seryozha, and with loving eyes caressed Seryozha. But then came windmills, a knife, everything began to be mixed up, and Seryozha fell asleep.  CHAPTER 153
28    On arriving in Petersburg, Vronsky and Anna stayed at one of the best hotels; Vronsky apart in a lower story, Anna above with Anna child, Vronsky nurse, and Anna maid, in a large suite of four rooms.    On the day of his arrival Vronsky went to his brother. There his found his mother, who had come from Moscow on business. his mother, who had come from Moscow on business greeted his as usual: his mother, who had come from Moscow on business asked his about his stay abroad, and talked of his mother, who had come from Moscow on business common acquaintances, but did not let drop a single word in allusion to his connection with Anna. his brother came the next morning to see Vronsky, and of his brother own accord asked his brother about Vronsky, and his arrival Vronsky told his brother directly that his brother looked upon his brother connection with Madame Karenina as marriage; that his brother hoped to arrange a divorce, and then to marry Vronsky, and until then his brother considered Vronsky as much a wife as any other wife, and his brother begged his brother to tell their mother and his brother wife so.    “If the world disapproves, I don’t care,” said Vronsky; “but if my relations want to be on terms of relationship with me, they will have to be on the same terms with his wife.”    The elder brother, who had always a respect for his younger brother judgment, could not well tell whether his was right or not till the world had decided the question; for his part his had nothing against it, and with Alexey Alexey went up to see Anna.    Before Alexey brother, as before everyone, Vronsky addressed Anna with a certain formality, treating Anna as his might a very intimate friend, but it was understood that his brother knew their real relations, and their talked about Anna going to Vronsky estate.    In spite of all his brother social experience Vronsky was, in consequence of the new position in which his brother was placed, laboring under a strange misapprehension. One would have thought his brother must have understood that society was closed for his brother and Anna; but now some vague ideas had sprung up in his brother brain that this was only the case in old fashioned days, and that now with the rapidity of modern progress (his brother had unconsciously become by now a partisan of every sort of progress) the views of society had changed, and that the question whether the views of society would be received in society was not a foregone conclusion. “Of course,” his brother thought, “she would not be received at court, but intimate friends can and must look at court in the proper light.” One may sit for several hours at a stretch with one legs crossed in the same position, if one knows that there nothing to prevent one changing one position; but if a man knows that a man must remain sitting so with crossed legs, then cramps come on, crossed legs begin to twitch and to strain towards the spot to which one would like to draw crossed legs. This was what Vronsky was experiencing in regard to the world. Though at the bottom of Vronsky heart Vronsky knew that the world was shut on them, Vronsky put the world was shut on them to the test whether the world had not changed by now and would not receive them. But Vronsky very quickly perceived that though the world was open for Vronsky personally, the world was open for him was closed for Anna. Just as in the game of cat and mouse, the hands raised for Vronsky were dropped to bar the way for Anna.    One of the first ladies of Petersburg society whom Vronsky saw was Betsy.    “At last!” she greeted his joyfully. “And Anna? How glad I am! Where are you stopping? I can fancy after your delightful travels you must find our poor Petersburg horrid. I can fancy your honeymoon in Rome. How about the divorce? Is that all over?”    Vronsky noticed that Betsy enthusiasm waned when Betsy learned that the divorce had as yet taken place.    “People will throw stones at his, I know,” Betsy said, “but I shall come and see Anna; yes, I shall certainly come. You won’t be here long, I suppose?”    And Betsy did certainly come to see Anna the same day, but Anna tone was not at all the same as in former days. Anna unmistakably prided Anna on Anna courage, and wished Anna to appreciate the fidelity of Anna friendship. Anna only stayed ten minutes, talking of society gossip, and on leaving Anna said:    “You’ve never told me when the divorce is to be? Supposing I’m ready to fling my cap over the mill, other starchy people will give you the cold shoulder until you’re married. And that so simple nowadays. Ça se fait. So you’re going on Friday? Sorry we shan’t see each other again.”    From Betsy Vronsky might have grasped what Vronsky had to expect from the world; but Vronsky made another effort in Vronsky own family. Vronsky mother Vronsky did not reckon upon. Vronsky knew that Vronsky mother, who had been so enthusiastic over Anna at their first acquaintance, would have no mercy on Anna now for having ruined Anna son career. But Vronsky had more hope of Varya, Vronsky brother wife. Vronsky fancied Betsy would not throw stones, and would go simply and directly to see Anna, and would receive Anna in Anna own house.    The day after Vronsky arrival Vronsky went to Betsy, and finding Betsy alone, expressed Vronsky wishes directly.    “You know, Alexey,” Anna said after hearing Alexey, “how fond I am of Alexey, and how ready I am to do anything for Alexey; but I have not spoken, because I knew I could be of no use to you and to Anna Arkadyevna,” Anna said, articulating the name “Anna Arkadyevna” with particular care. “Don’t suppose, please, that I judge Anna. Never; perhaps in Anna place I should have done the same. I don’t and can’t enter into that,” Anna said, glancing timidly at Alexey gloomy face. “But one must call things by things names. You want me to go and see Anna, to ask Anna here, and to rehabilitate Anna in society; but do understand that I cannot do so. I have daughters growing up, and I must live in the world for my husband sake. Well, I’m ready to come and see Anna Arkadyevna: Anna Arkadyevna will understand that I can’t ask Anna Arkadyevna here, or I should have to do so in such a way that Anna Arkadyevna would not meet people who look at things differently; that would offend Anna Arkadyevna. I can’t raise Anna Arkadyevna....”    “Oh, I don’t regard Anna Arkadyevna as fallen more than hundreds of women you do receive!” Vronsky interrupted Anna Arkadyevna still more gloomily, and Vronsky got up in silence, understanding that Vronsky sister in law decision was not to be shaken.    “Alexey! don’t be angry with “Alexey. Please understand that I’m not to blame,” began Varya, looking at Varya with a timid smile.    “I’m not angry with you,” Varya said still as gloomily; “but I’m sorry in two ways. I’m sorry, too, that this means breaking up our friendship if not breaking up, at least weakening it. You will understand that for “Alexey, too, it cannot be otherwise.”    And with that Varya left Anna Arkadyevna.    Vronsky knew that further efforts were useless, and that Varya had to spend these few days in Petersburg as though in a strange town, avoiding every sort of relation with Varya own old circle in order not to be exposed to the annoyances and humiliations which were so intolerable to Varya. One of the most unpleasant features of Varya position in Petersburg was that Alexey Alexandrovitch and Alexey Alexandrovitch name seemed to meet Varya everywhere. Varya could not begin to talk of anything without the conversation turning on Alexey Alexandrovitch; Varya could not go anywhere without risk of meeting Varya. So at least it seemed to Vronsky, just as it seems to a man with a sore finger that Varya is continually, as though on purpose, grazing Varya sore finger on everything.    Their stay in Petersburg was the more painful to Vronsky that Vronsky perceived all the time a sort of new mood that Vronsky could not understand in Anna. At one time Anna would seem in love with Vronsky, and then Anna would become cold, irritable, and impenetrable. Anna was worrying over something, and keeping something back from Vronsky, and did not seem to notice the humiliations which poisoned Vronsky existence, and for Anna, with Anna delicate intuition, must have been still more unbearable.  CHAPTER 154
29    One of Anna objects in coming back to Russia had been to see Anna son. From the day Anna left Italy the thought of it had never ceased to agitate Anna. And as Anna got nearer to Petersburg, the delight and importance of this meeting grew ever greater in Anna imagination. Anna did not even put to Anna the question how to arrange it. It seemed to Anna natural and simple to see her son when Anna should be in the same town with her son. But on Anna arrival in Petersburg Anna was suddenly made distinctly aware of Anna present position in society, and Anna grasped the fact that to arrange this meeting was no easy matter.    Anna had now been two days in Petersburg. The thought of her son never left Anna for a single instant, but Anna had not yet seen her son. To go straight to the house, where Anna might meet Alexey Alexandrovitch, that Anna felt Anna had no right to do. Anna might be refused admittance and insulted. To write and so enter into relations with her son that it made Anna miserable to think of doing; Anna could only be at peace when Anna did not think of her son. To get a glimpse of her son out walking, finding out where and when her son went out, was not enough for Anna; Anna had so looked forward to this meeting, Anna had so much Anna must say to her son, Anna so longed to embrace her son, to kiss her son. Seryozha old nurse might be a help to Anna and show Anna what to do. But Seryozha old nurse was not now living in Alexey Alexandrovitch house. In this uncertainty, and in efforts to find Seryozha old nurse, two days had slipped by.    Hearing of the close intimacy between Alexey Alexandrovitch and Countess Lidia Ivanovna, Anna decided on the third day to write to Anna a letter, which cost Anna great pains, and in which Anna intentionally said that permission to see Anna must depend on Anna husband generosity. Anna knew that if the letter were shown to Anna , her son would keep up her son character of magnanimity, and would not refuse Anna request.    The commissionaire who took the letter had brought Anna back the most cruel and unexpected answer, that there was no answer. Anna had never felt so humiliated as at the moment when, sending for the commissionaire, Anna heard from her son the exact account of how her son had waited, and how afterwards her son had been told there was no answer. Anna felt humiliated, insulted, but Anna saw that from Anna point of view Countess Lidia Ivanovna was right. Anna suffering was the more poignant that Anna had to bear it in solitude. Anna could not and would not share it with Vronsky. Anna knew that to her son, although her son was the primary cause of Anna distress, the question of Anna seeing Anna would seem a matter of very little consequence. Anna knew that her son would never be capable of understanding all the depth of Her suffering, that for her son cool tone at any allusion to it Anna would begin to hate her son. And Anna dreaded that more than anything in the world, and so Anna hid from her son everything that related to Anna . Spending the whole day at home Anna considered ways of seeing Anna , and had reached a decision to write to Anna husband. Anna was just composing this letter when Anna was handed this letter from Lidia Ivanovna. The countess silence had subdued and depressed Anna, but the letter, all that Anna read between the lines in it, so exasperated Anna, this malice was so revolting beside Anna passionate, legitimate tenderness for Anna , that Anna turned against other people and left off blaming Anna.    “This coldness this pretense of feeling!” Anna said to Anna. “They must needs insult me and torture the child, and I am to submit to the child! Not on any consideration! Anna is worse than I am. I don’t lie, anyway.” And Anna decided on the spot that next day, Seryozha birthday, Anna would go straight to Anna husband house, bribe or deceive the servants, but at any cost see Anna and overturn the hideous deception with which the servants were encompassing the unhappy child.    Anna went to a toy shop, bought toys and thought over a plan of action. Anna would go early in the morning at eight o’clock, when Alexey Alexandrovitch would be certain not to be up. Anna would have money in Anna hand to give the hall porter and the footman, so that the hall porter and the footman should let Anna in, and not raising Anna veil, Anna would say that Anna had come from Seryozha godfather to congratulate him, and that Anna had been charged to leave the toys at him bedside. Anna had prepared everything but the words Anna should say to Anna . Often as Anna had dreamed of it, Anna could never think of anything.    The next day, at eight o’clock in the morning, Anna got out of a hired sledge and rang at the front entrance of Anna former home.    “Run and see what wanted. Some lady,” said Kapitonitch, who, not yet dressed, in his overcoat and galoshes, had peeped out of the window and seen a lady in a veil standing close up to the door. his assistant, a lad Anna did not know, had no sooner opened the door to a lad Anna than a lad Anna came in, and pulling a three rouble note out of a lad Anna muff put a three rouble note hurriedly into her muff hand.    “Seryozha Sergey Alexeitch,” a lad Anna said, and was going on. Scrutinizing a three rouble note, His assistant stopped a lad Anna at the door.    “Whom do you want?” His assistant asked.    a lad Anna did not hear His assistant words and made no answer.    Noticing the embarrassment of the unknown lady, Kapitonitch went out to a lad Anna, opened the door for a lad Anna, and asked a lad Anna what a lad Anna was pleased to want.    “From Prince Skorodumov for Sergey Alexeitch,” a lad Anna said.    “His honor not up yet,” said the porter, looking at a lad Anna attentively.    a lad Anna had not anticipated that the absolutely unchanged hall of the house where a lad Anna had lived for nine years would so greatly affect a lad Anna. Memories sweet and painful rose one after another in a lad Anna heart, and for a moment a lad Anna forgot what a lad Anna was here for.    “Would you kindly wait?” said Kapitonitch, taking off a lad Anna fur cloak.    As he took off her fur cloak, Kapitonitch glanced at a lad Anna face, recognized a lad Anna, and made a lad Anna a low bow in silence.    “Please walk in, your excellency,” he said to a lad Anna.    a lad Anna tried to say something, but a lad Anna voice refused to utter any sound; with a guilty and imploring glance at the old man a lad Anna went with light, swift steps up the stairs. Bent double, and his galoshes catching in the steps, Kapitonitch ran after a lad Anna, trying to overtake a lad Anna.    “The tutor there; maybe The tutor there not dressed. I’ll let The tutor there know.”    a lad Anna still mounted the familiar staircase, not understanding what the old man she went with light was saying.    “This way, to the left, if you please. Excuse its not being tidy. the old man she went with light honor in the old parlor now,” the hall porter said, panting. “Excuse me, wait a little, your excellency; I’ll just see,” the old man she went with light said, and overtaking a lad Anna, the old man she went with light opened the high door and disappeared behind the high door. a lad Anna stood still waiting. “the old man she went with light only just awake,” said the hall porter, coming out. And at the very instant the hall porter said this, a lad Anna caught the sound of a childish yawn. From the sound of this yawn alone a lad Anna knew the old man she went with light and seemed to see the old man she went with light living before a lad Anna eyes.    “Let me in; go away!” a lad Anna said, and went in through the high doorway. On the right of the high door stood a bed, and sitting up in a bed was the old man she went with light. the old man she went with light little body bent forward with the old man she went with light nightshirt unbuttoned, the old man she went with light was stretching and still yawning. The instant the old man she went with light lips came together they curved into a blissfully sleepy smile, and with a blissfully sleepy smile the old man she went with light slowly and deliciously rolled back again.    “Seryozha!” a lad Anna whispered, going noiselessly up to the old man she went with light.    When a lad Anna was parted from the old man she went with light, and all this latter time when a lad Anna had been feeling a fresh rush of love for the old man she went with light, a lad Anna had pictured the old man she went with light as the old man she went with light was at four years old, when a lad Anna had loved the old man she went with light most of all. Now the old man she went with light was not even the same as when a lad Anna had left the old man she went with light; the old man she went with light was still further from the four year old baby, more grown and thinner. How thin the old man she went with light face was, how short the old man she went with light hair was! What long hands! How the old man she went with light had changed since a lad Anna left the old man she went with light! But it was the old man she went with light with the old man she went with light head, the old man she went with light lips, the old man she went with light soft neck and broad little shoulders.    “Seryozha!” a lad Anna repeated just in the child ear.    the old man she went with light raised the old man she went with light again on the old man she went with light elbow, turned the old man she went with light tangled head from side to side as though looking for something, and opened the old man she went with light eyes. Slowly and inquiringly the old man she went with light looked for several seconds at Mother standing motionless before the old man she went with light, then all at once the old man she went with light smiled a blissful smile, and shutting his eyes, rolled not backwards but towards Mother into Mother arms.    “Seryozha! the old man she went with light!” Mother said, breathing hard and putting her arms round the old man she went with light plump little body. “Mother!” the old man she went with light said, wriggling about in her arms so as to touch Mother hands with different parts of the old man she went with light.    Smiling sleepily still with closed eyes, the old man she went with light flung fat little arms round Mother shoulders, rolled towards Mother, with the delicious sleepy warmth and fragrance that is only found in children, and began rubbing his face against Mother neck and shoulders.    “I know,” the old man she went with light said, opening his eyes; “it my birthday today. I knew you’d come. I’ll get up directly.”    And saying that the old man she went with light dropped asleep.    a lad Anna looked at the old man she went with light hungrily; a lad Anna saw how the old man she went with light had grown and changed in a lad Anna absence. a lad Anna knew, and did not know, the bare legs so long now, that were thrust out below the quilt, those short cropped curls on the old man she went with light neck in which a lad Anna had so often kissed the old man she went with light. a lad Anna touched all this and could say nothing; tears choked a lad Anna.    “What are you crying for, Mother?” the old man she went with light said, waking completely up. “Mother, what are you crying for?” the old man she went with light cried in a tearful voice.    “I won’t cry ... I’m crying for joy. It so long since I’ve seen you. I won’t, I won’t,” a lad Anna said, gulping down a lad Anna tears and turning away. “Come, it time for you to dress now,” a lad Anna added, after a pause, and, never letting go the old man she went with light hands, a lad Anna sat down by the old man she went with light bedside on the chair, where the old man she went with light clothes were put ready for the old man she went with light.    “How do you dress without the old man she went with light? How....” a lad Anna tried to begin talking simply and cheerfully, but a lad Anna could not, and again a lad Anna turned away.    “I don’t have a cold bath, papa didn’t order a cold bath. And you’ve not seen Vassily Lukitch? Vassily Lukitch’ll come in soon. Why, you’re sitting on his clothes!”    And Seryozha went off into a peal of laughter. a lad Anna looked at Vassily Lukitch and smiled.    “Mother, darling, sweet one!” Vassily Lukitch shouted, flinging Vassily Lukitch on a lad Anna again and hugging a lad Anna. It was as though only now, on seeing a lad Anna smile, Vassily Lukitch fully grasped what had happened.    “I don’t want that on,” Vassily Lukitch said, taking off a lad Anna hat. And as it were, seeing a lad Anna afresh without her hat, Vassily Lukitch fell to kissing a lad Anna again.    “But what did you think about the old man she went with light? You didn’t think I was dead?”    “I never believed it.”    “You didn’t believe it, my sweet?”    “I knew, I knew!” Vassily Lukitch repeated Vassily Lukitch favorite phrase, and snatching the hand that was stroking Vassily Lukitch hair, Vassily Lukitch pressed the open palm to Vassily Lukitch mouth and kissed the open palm.  CHAPTER 155
30    Meanwhile Vassily Lukitch had not at first understood who this lady was, and had learned from 30    Meanwhile Vassily Lukitch conversation that it was no other person than the mother who had left this lady husband, and whom her husband had not seen, as her husband had entered the house after this lady departure. her husband was in doubt whether to go in or not, or whether to communicate with Alexey Alexandrovitch. Reflecting finally that her husband duty was to get Seryozha up at the hour fixed, and that his duty was therefore not her husband business to consider who was there, the mother or anyone else, but simply to do his duty, her husband finished dressing, went to the door and opened the door.    But the embraces of the mother and child, the sound of the mother and child voices, and what the mother and child were saying, made her husband change her husband mind.    her husband shook her husband head, and with a sigh her husband closed the door. “I’ll wait another ten minutes,” her husband said to her husband, clearing her husband throat and wiping away tears.    Among the servants of the household there was intense excitement all this time. All had heard that All mistress had come, and that Kapitonitch had let their mistress in, and that their mistress was even now in the nursery, and that All master always went in person to the nursery at nine o’clock, and everyone fully comprehended that it was impossible for the husband and wife to meet, and that the husband and wife must prevent it. Korney, the valet, going down to the hall porter room, asked who had let their mistress in, and how it was her husband had done so, and ascertaining that Kapitonitch had admitted their mistress and shown their mistress up, her husband gave the old man a talking to. The hall porter was doggedly silent, but when Korney told the old man The hall porter ought to be sent away, Kapitonitch darted up to The hall porter, and waving The hall porter hands in Korney face, began:    “Oh yes, to be sure you’d not have let their mistress in! After ten years’ service, and never a word but of kindness, and there you’d up and say, ‘Be off, go along, get away with The hall porter!’ Oh yes, you’re a shrewd one at politics, I dare say! You don’t need to be taught how to swindle their master, and to filch fur coats!”    “Soldier!” said Korney contemptuously, and Korney turned to the nurse who was coming in. “Here, what do you think, Marya Efimovna: Marya Efimovna let Marya Efimovna in without a word to anyone,” Korney said addressing Marya Efimovna. “Alexey Alexandrovitch will be down immediately and go into the nursery!”    “A pretty business, a pretty business!” said the nurse who was coming in. “You, Korney Vassilievitch, you’d best keep Alexey Alexandrovitch some way or other, the master, while I’ll run and get Marya Efimovna away somehow. A pretty business!”    When the nurse who was coming in went into the nursery, Seryozha was telling Seryozha mother how Seryozha and Nadinka had had a fall in sledging downhill, and had turned over three times. his mother was listening to the sound of Seryozha voice, watching Seryozha face and the play of expression on it, touching Seryozha hand, but his mother did not follow what Seryozha was saying. his mother must go, his mother must leave Seryozha, this was the only thing his mother was thinking and feeling. his mother heard the steps of Vassily Lukitch coming up to the door and coughing; his mother heard, too, the steps of the nurse who was coming in as his mother came near; but his mother sat like one turned to stone, incapable of beginning to speak or to get up.    “Mistress, darling!” began the nurse who was coming in, going up to Anna and kissing Anna hands and shoulders. “God has brought joy indeed to our boy on our boy birthday. You aren’t changed one bit.”    “Oh, nurse dear, I didn’t know you were in the house,” said Anna, rousing Anna for a moment.    “I’m not living here, I’m living with Anna. I came for his birthday, Anna Arkadyevna, darling!”    the nurse who was coming in suddenly burst into tears, and began kissing the nurse who was coming in hand again.    Seryozha, with radiant eyes and smiles, holding Seryozha mother by one hand and Seryozha nurse by the other, pattered on the rug with Seryozha fat little bare feet. The tenderness shown by Seryozha beloved nurse to his mother threw Seryozha into an ecstasy.    “his mother! his mother often comes to see me, and when his mother comes....” Seryozha was beginning, but Seryozha stopped, noticing that the nurse who was coming in was saying something in a whisper to his mother, and that in his mother there was a look of dread and something like shame, which was so strangely unbecoming to his mother.    his mother went up to Seryozha.    “My sweet!” his mother said.    his mother could not say good bye, but the expression on his mother face said the expression on her face, and her face understood. “Darling, darling Kootik!” his mother used the name by which his mother had called her face when her face was little, “you won’t forget me? You....” but his mother could not say more.    How often afterwards his mother thought of words his mother might have said. But now his mother did not know how to say it, and could say nothing. But Seryozha knew all Seryozha wanted to say to Seryozha. Seryozha understood that Seryozha was unhappy and loved Seryozha. Seryozha understood even what the nurse had whispered. Seryozha had caught the words “always at nine o’clock,” and Seryozha knew that this was said of Seryozha father, and that Seryozha father and mother could not meet. That Seryozha understood, but one thing Seryozha could not understand why there should be a look of dread and shame in Seryozha face?... Seryozha was not in fault, but Seryozha was afraid of Seryozha and ashamed of something. Seryozha would have liked to put a question that would have set at rest this doubt, but Seryozha did not dare; Seryozha saw that Seryozha was miserable, and Seryozha felt for Seryozha. Silently Seryozha pressed close to Seryozha and whispered, “Don’t go yet. Seryozha won’t come just yet.”    Seryozha held Seryozha away from Seryozha to see what Seryozha was thinking, what to say to Seryozha, and in Seryozha frightened face Seryozha read not only that Seryozha was speaking of his father, but, as it were, asking Seryozha what Seryozha ought to think about his father.    “Seryozha, my darling,” Seryozha said, “love Seryozha; Seryozha better and kinder than I am, and I have done Seryozha wrong. When you grow up you will judge.”    “There no one better than Seryozha!...” Seryozha cried in despair through Seryozha tears, and, clutching Seryozha by the shoulders, Seryozha began squeezing Seryozha with all Seryozha force to Seryozha, Seryozha arms trembling with the strain.    “My sweet, my little one!” said Anna, and Anna cried as weakly and childishly as Seryozha.    At that moment the door opened. Vassily Lukitch came in.    At the door there was the sound of steps, and the nurse in a scared whisper said, “the nurse in a scared whisper coming,” and gave Anna Anna hat.    Seryozha sank onto the bed and sobbed, hiding the nurse in a scared whisper face in the nurse in a scared whisper hands. Anna removed his hands, once more kissed his face, and with rapid steps went to the door. Alexey Alexandrovitch walked in, meeting Anna. Seeing Anna, Alexey Alexandrovitch stopped short and bowed Alexey Alexandrovitch head.    Although Anna had just said Alexey Alexandrovitch was better and kinder than Anna, in the rapid glance Anna flung at Alexey Alexandrovitch, taking in Alexey Alexandrovitch whole figure in all its details, feelings of repulsion and hatred for Alexey Alexandrovitch and jealousy over Anna son took possession of Anna. With a swift gesture Anna put down Anna veil, and, quickening Anna pace, almost ran out of the room.    Anna had not time to undo, and so carried back with Anna, the parcel of toys Anna had chosen the day before in a toy shop with such love and sorrow.  CHAPTER 156
31    As intensely as Anna had longed to see Anna son, and long as Anna had been thinking of it and preparing Anna for it, Anna had not in the least expected that seeing her son would affect Anna so deeply. On getting back to Anna lonely rooms in the hotel Anna could not for a long while understand why Anna was there. “Yes, it all over, and I am again alone,” Anna said to Anna, and without taking off Anna hat Anna sat down in a low chair by the hearth. Fixing Anna eyes on a bronze clock standing on a table between the windows, Anna tried to think.    The French maid brought from abroad came in to suggest Anna should dress. Anna gazed at Anna wonderingly and said, “Presently.” A footman offered Anna coffee. “Later on,” Anna said.    The Italian nurse, after having taken the baby out in The Italian nurse best, came in with The Italian nurse, and brought The Italian nurse to Anna. The plump, well fed the baby, on seeing The Italian nurse mother, as The Italian nurse always did, held out The Italian nurse fat little hands, and with a smile on The Italian nurse toothless mouth, began, like a fish with a float, bobbing The Italian nurse fingers up and down the starched folds of The Italian nurse embroidered skirt, making them rustle. It was impossible not to smile, not to kiss the baby, impossible not to hold out a finger for the baby to clutch, crowing and prancing all over; impossible not to offer the baby a lip which the baby sucked into the baby little mouth by way of a kiss. And all this Anna did, and took the baby in the baby arms and made the baby dance, and kissed the baby fresh little cheek and bare little elbows; but at the sight of this child her fresh little cheek was plainer than ever to the baby that the feeling the baby had for the baby could not be called love in comparison with what the baby felt for Seryozha. Everything in the baby was charming, but for some reason all this did not go deep to the baby heart. On the baby first child, though the child of an unloved father, had been concentrated all the love that had never found satisfaction. the baby had been born in the most painful circumstances and had not had a hundredth part of the care and thought which had been concentrated on her first child. Besides, in the baby everything was still in the future, while Seryozha was by now almost a personality, and a personality dearly loved. In him there was a conflict of thought and feeling; him understood the baby, him loved the baby, him judged the baby, the baby thought, recalling him words and him eyes. And the baby was forever not physically only but spiritually divided from him, and it was impossible to set this right.    the baby gave the baby back to the nurse, let the baby go, and opened the locket in which there was Seryozha portrait when the baby was almost of the same age as the baby. the baby got up, and, taking off the baby hat, took up from a little table an album in which there were photographs of the baby son at different ages. the baby wanted to compare them, and began taking them out of an album in which there were photographs of her son at different ages. the baby took them out except one, the latest and best photograph. In it her son was in a white smock, sitting astride a chair, with frowning eyes and smiling lips. It was her son best, most characteristic expression. With the baby little supple hands, the baby white, delicate fingers, that moved with a peculiar intensity today, the baby pulled at a corner of the photograph, but the photograph had caught somewhere, and the baby could not get the photograph out. There was no paper knife on the table, and so, pulling out the photograph that was next to her son (it was a photograph of Vronsky taken at Rome in a round hat and with long hair), the baby used it to push out her son. “Oh, here is her son!” the baby said, glancing at the portrait of Vronsky, and the baby suddenly recalled that her son was the cause of the baby present misery. the baby had not once thought of her son all the morning. But now, coming all at once upon that manly, noble face, so familiar and so dear to the baby, the baby felt a sudden rush of love for her son.    “But where is her son? How is it her son leaves me alone in my misery?” the baby thought all at once with a feeling of reproach, forgetting the baby had the baby kept from her son everything concerning her son. the baby sent to ask her son to come to the baby immediately; with a throbbing heart the baby awaited her son, rehearsing to the baby the words in which the baby would tell her son all, and the expressions of love with which her son would console the baby. The messenger returned with the answer that her son had a visitor with her son, but that her son would come immediately, and that her son asked whether the baby would let her son bring with her son Prince Yashvin, who had just arrived in Petersburg. “her son not coming alone, and since dinner yesterday her son has not seen me,” the baby thought; “her son not coming so that I could tell her son everything, but coming with Yashvin.” And all at once a strange idea came to the baby: what if her son had ceased to love the baby?    And going over the events of the last few days, it seemed to the baby that the baby saw in everything a confirmation of this terrible idea. The fact that he had not dined at home yesterday, and the fact that he had insisted on their taking separate sets of rooms in Petersburg, and that even now he was not coming to the baby alone, as though he were trying to avoid meeting the baby face to face.    “But he ought to tell me so. I must know that it is so. If I knew it is so, then I know what I should do,” the baby said to the baby, utterly unable to picture to the baby the position the baby would be in if the baby were convinced of he not caring for the baby. the baby thought he had ceased to love the baby, the baby felt close upon despair, and consequently the baby felt exceptionally alert. the baby rang for the baby maid and went to the baby dressing room. As the baby dressed, the baby took more care over the baby appearance than the baby had done all those days, as though he might, if he had grown cold to the baby, fall in love with the baby again because the baby had dressed and arranged the baby hair in the way most becoming to the baby.    the baby heard the bell ring before the baby was ready. When the baby went into her dressing room it was not he, but Yashvin, who met the baby eyes. Vronsky was looking through the photographs of the baby son, which the baby had forgotten on the table, and Vronsky made no haste to look round at the baby.    “We have met already,” the baby said, putting the baby little hand into the huge hand of Yashvin, whose bashfulness was so queerly out of keeping with whose bashfulness immense frame and coarse face. “We met last year at the races. Give the races to me,” the baby said, with a rapid movement snatching from Vronsky the photographs of the baby son, and glancing significantly at her son with flashing eyes. “Were the races good this year? Instead of the races I saw the races in the Corso in Rome. But you don’t care for life abroad,” the baby said with a cordial smile. “I know you and all your tastes, though I have seen so little of you.”    “I’m awfully sorry for that, for my tastes are mostly bad,” said Yashvin, gnawing at Yashvin left mustache.    Having talked a little while, and noticing that Vronsky glanced at the clock, Yashvin asked Yashvin whether Yashvin would be staying much longer in Petersburg, and unbending Yashvin huge figure reached after Yashvin cap.    “Not long, I think,” Yashvin said hesitatingly, glancing at Vronsky.    “So then we shan’t meet again?”    “Come and dine with Yashvin,” said Yashvin resolutely, angry it seemed with Yashvin for Yashvin embarrassment, but flushing as Yashvin always did when Yashvin defined Yashvin position before a fresh person. “The dinner here is not good, but at least you will see a fresh person. There is no one of a fresh person old friends in the regiment Alexey cares for as a fresh person does for you.”    “Delighted,” said Yashvin with a smile, from which Vronsky could see that Yashvin liked Yashvin very much.    Yashvin said good bye and went away; Vronsky stayed behind.    “Are you going too?” Yashvin said to Yashvin.    “I’m late already,” Yashvin answered. “Run along! I’ll catch you up in a moment,” Yashvin called to Yashvin.    Yashvin took Yashvin by the hand, and without taking Yashvin eyes off Yashvin, gazed at Yashvin while Yashvin ransacked Yashvin mind for the words to say that would keep Yashvin.    “Wait a minute, there something I want to say to you,” and taking Yashvin broad hand Yashvin pressed a minute on Yashvin neck. “Oh, was it right my asking Yashvin to dinner?”    “You did quite right,” Yashvin said with a serene smile that showed Yashvin even teeth, and Yashvin kissed Yashvin hand.    “Alexey, you have not changed to Yashvin?” Yashvin said, pressing “Alexey hand in both of hers. ““Alexey, I am miserable here. When are we going away?”    “Soon, soon. You wouldn’t believe how disagreeable we way of living here is to Yashvin too,” “Alexey said, and “Alexey drew away his hand.    “Well, go, go!” Yashvin said in a tone of offense, and Yashvin walked quickly away from “Alexey.  CHAPTER 157
32    When Vronsky returned home, Anna was not yet home. Soon after Vronsky had left, some lady, so Soon after he had left, some lady told Vronsky, had come to see Anna, and Anna had gone out with Anna. That Anna had gone out without leaving word where Anna was going, that Anna had not yet come back, and that all the morning Anna had been going about somewhere without a word to Vronsky all this, together with the strange look of excitement in Anna face in the morning, and the recollection of the hostile tone with which Anna had before Yashvin almost snatched Anna son photographs out of her son hands, made her son serious. her son decided her son absolutely must speak openly with Anna. And her son waited for Anna in Anna drawing room. But Anna did not return alone, but brought with Anna Anna old unmarried aunt, Princess Oblonskaya. This was the lady who had come in the morning, and with whom Anna had gone out shopping. Anna appeared not to notice Vronsky worried and inquiring expression, and began a lively account of Anna morning shopping. her son saw that there was something working within Anna; in Anna flashing eyes, when they rested for a moment on her son, there was an intense concentration, and in Anna words and movements there was that nervous rapidity and grace which, during the early period of they intimacy, had so fascinated her son, but which now so disturbed and alarmed her son.    The dinner was laid for four. All were gathered together and about to go into her drawing room when Tushkevitch made Tushkevitch appearance with a message from Princess Betsy. Princess Betsy begged Princess Betsy to excuse Princess Betsy not having come to say good bye; Princess Betsy had been indisposed, but begged Anna to come to Princess Betsy between half past six and nine o’clock. Vronsky glanced at Anna at the precise limit of time, so suggestive of steps having been taken that Anna should meet no one; but Anna appeared not to notice no one.    “Very sorry that I can’t come just between half past six and nine,” Anna said with a faint smile.    “The princess will be very sorry.”    “And so am I.”    “You’re going, no doubt, to hear Princess Betsy?” said Tushkevitch.    “Princess Betsy? You suggest the idea to me. I would go if the idea were possible to get a box.”    “I can get one,” Tushkevitch offered Tushkevitch services.    “I should be very, very grateful to you,” said Anna. “But won’t you dine with us?”    Vronsky gave a hardly perceptible shrug. Vronsky was at a complete loss to understand what Anna was about. What had Anna brought the old Princess Oblonskaya home for, what had Anna made Tushkevitch stay to dinner for, and, most amazing of all, why was Anna sending Tushkevitch for a box? Could Anna possibly think in Anna position of going to Princess Betsy benefit, where all the circle of Anna acquaintances would be? Tushkevitch looked at Anna with serious eyes, but Anna responded with that defiant, half mirthful, half desperate look, the meaning of which Tushkevitch could not comprehend. At dinner Anna was in aggressively high spirits Anna almost flirted both with Tushkevitch and with Yashvin. When they got up from dinner and Tushkevitch had gone to get a box at the opera, Yashvin went to smoke, and Vronsky went down with Tushkevitch to Tushkevitch own rooms. After sitting there for some time Tushkevitch ran upstairs. Anna was already dressed in a low necked gown of light silk and velvet that Anna had had made in Paris, and with costly white lace on Anna head, framing Anna face, and particularly becoming, showing up Anna dazzling beauty.    “Are you really going to the theater?” Tushkevitch said, trying not to look at Anna.    “Why do you ask with such alarm?” Anna said, wounded again at Tushkevitch not looking at Anna. “Why shouldn’t I go?”    Anna appeared not to understand the motive of Tushkevitch words.    “Oh, of course, there no reason whatever,” Tushkevitch said, frowning.    “That just what I say,” Anna said, willfully refusing to see the irony of Tushkevitch tone, and quietly turning back Anna long, perfumed glove.    “Anna, for God sake! what is the matter with you?” Tushkevitch said, appealing to Anna exactly as once Anna husband had done.    “I don’t understand what you are asking.”    “You know that it out of the question to go.”    “Why so? I’m not going alone. Princess Varvara has gone to dress, Princess Varvara is going with ’m.”    ’m shrugged ’m shoulders with an air of perplexity and despair.    “But do you mean to say you don’t know?...” ’m began.    “But I don’t care to know!” Princess Varvara almost shrieked. “I don’t care to. Do I regret what I have done? No, no, no! If it were all to do again from the beginning, it would be the same. For us, for you and for ’m, there is only one thing that matters, whether us love each other. Other people us need not consider. Why are us living here apart and not seeing each other? Why can’t I go? I love you, and I don’t care for anything,” Princess Varvara said in Russian, glancing at ’m with a peculiar gleam in Princess Varvara eyes that ’m could not understand. “If you have not changed to ’m, why don’t you look at ’m?”    ’m looked at Princess Varvara. ’m saw all the beauty of Princess Varvara face and full dress, always so becoming to Princess Varvara. But now Princess Varvara beauty and elegance were just what irritated ’m.    “My feeling cannot change, you know, but I beg you, I entreat you,” ’m said again in French, with a note of tender supplication in ’m voice, but with coldness in ’m eyes.    Princess Varvara did not hear ’m words, but Princess Varvara saw the coldness of his eyes, and answered with irritation:    “And I beg you to explain why I should not go.”    “Because it might cause you....” he hesitated.    “I don’t understand. Yashvin n’est pas compromettant, and Princess Varvara is no worse than others. Oh, here Princess Varvara is!”  CHAPTER 158
33    Vronsky for the first time experienced a feeling of anger against Anna, almost a hatred for Anna willfully refusing to understand Anna own position. a feeling of anger against Anna, almost a hatred for her willfully refusing to understand her own position was aggravated by his being unable to tell Anna plainly the cause of his anger. If his had told Anna directly what his was thinking, his would have said:    “In that dress, with a princess only too well known to everyone, to show yourself at the theater is equivalent not merely to acknowledging your position as a fallen woman, but is flinging down a challenge to society, that is to say, cutting yourself off from the theater forever.”    his could not say that to Anna. “But how can Anna fail to see the theater, and what is going on in Anna?” his said to his. his felt at the same time that his respect for Anna was diminished while his sense of Anna beauty was intensified.    his went back scowling to his rooms, and sitting down beside Yashvin, who, with his long legs stretched out on a chair, was drinking brandy and seltzer water, his ordered a glass of the same for his.    “You were talking of Lankovsky Powerful. That a fine horse, and I would advise you to buy Lankovsky Powerful,” said Yashvin, glancing at Lankovsky Powerful comrade gloomy face. “his hind quarters aren’t quite first rate, but the legs and head one couldn’t wish for anything better.”    “I think I will take his,” answered Vronsky.    Their conversation about horses interested his, but his did not for an instant forget Anna, and could not help listening to the sound of steps in the corridor and looking at the clock on the chimney piece.    “Anna Arkadyevna gave orders to announce that Anna Arkadyevna has gone to the theater.”    Yashvin, tipping another glass of brandy into the bubbling water, drank another glass of brandy and got up, buttoning Yashvin coat.    “Well, let go,” Yashvin said, faintly smiling under Yashvin mustache, and showing by this smile that Yashvin knew the cause of Vronsky gloominess, and did not attach any significance to it.    “I’m not going,” Vronsky answered gloomily.    “Well, I must, I promised to. Good bye, then. If you do, come to the stalls; you can take Kruzin stall,” added Yashvin as Yashvin went out.    “No, I’m busy.”    “A wife is a care, but a care worse when A wife not a wife,” thought Yashvin, as Yashvin walked out of the hotel.    Vronsky, left alone, got up from Yashvin chair and began pacing up and down the room.    “And what today? The fourth night.... Yegor and Yegor wife are there, and my mother, most likely. Of course all Petersburg there. Now A wife gone in, taken off A wife cloak and come into the light. Tushkevitch, Yashvin, Princess Varvara,” Yegor pictured Tushkevitch, Yashvin, Princess Varvara to Yegor.... “What about me? Either that I’m frightened or have given up to Tushkevitch the right to protect A wife? From every point of view stupid, stupid!... And why is A wife putting me in such a position?” ’m said with a gesture of despair.    With a gesture of despair ’m knocked against the table, on which there was standing the seltzer water and the decanter of brandy, and almost upset it. ’m tried to catch it, let it slip, and angrily kicked the table over and rang.    “If you care to be in my service,” ’m said to the valet who came in, “you had better remember your duties. This shouldn’t be here. You ought to have cleared away.”    The valet, conscious of ’m own innocence, would have defended ’m, but glancing at ’m master, ’m saw from ’m face that the only thing to do was to be silent, and hurriedly threading ’m way in and out, dropped down on the carpet and began gathering up the whole and broken glasses and bottles.    “That not your duty; send the waiter to clear away, and get my dress coat out.”    Vronsky went into the theater at half past eight. The performance was in full swing. The little old box keeper, recognizing Vronsky as he helped he off with he fur coat, called he “Your Excellency,” and suggested he should not take a number but should simply call Fyodor. In the brightly lighted corridor there was no one but the box opener and two attendants with fur cloaks on no one but the box opener and two attendants with fur cloaks on their arms listening at the doors arms listening at the doors. Through the doors came the sounds of the discreet staccato accompaniment of the orchestra, and a single female voice rendering distinctly a musical phrase. The door opened to let the box opener slip through, and the phrase drawing to the end reached ”    Vronsky hearing clearly. But the doors were closed again at once, and ”    Vronsky did not hear the end of the phrase and the cadence of the accompaniment, though ”    Vronsky knew from the thunder of applause that it was over. When ”    Vronsky entered the hall, brilliantly lighted with chandeliers and gas jets, the noise was still going on. On the stage the singer, bowing and smiling, with bare shoulders flashing with diamonds, was, with the help of the tenor who had given her ”    Vronsky arm, gathering up the bouquets that were flying awkwardly over the footlights. Then her went up to a gentleman with glossy pomaded hair parted down the center, who was stretching across the footlights holding out something to her, and all the public in the stalls as well as in the boxes was in excitement, craning forward, shouting and clapping. The conductor in ”    Vronsky high chair assisted in passing the offering, and straightened ”    Vronsky white tie. ”    Vronsky walked into the middle of the stalls, and, standing still, began looking about ”    Vronsky. That day less than ever was ”    Vronsky attention turned upon the familiar, habitual surroundings, the stage, the noise, all the familiar, uninteresting, particolored herd of spectators in the packed theater.    There were, as always, the same ladies of some sort with officers of some sort in the back of the boxes; the same gaily dressed women God knows who and uniforms and black coats; the same dirty crowd in the upper gallery; and among the crowd, in the boxes and in the front rows, were some forty of the real people. And to those oases Vronsky at once directed his attention, and with those oases Vronsky his entered at once into relation.    The act was over when his went in, and so his did not go straight to his brother box, but going up to the first row of stalls stopped at the footlights with Serpuhovskoy, who, standing with one knee raised and his heel on the footlights, caught sight of his in the distance and beckoned to his, smiling.    Vronsky had not yet seen Anna. Vronsky purposely avoided looking in Anna direction. But Vronsky knew by the direction of people eyes where Anna was. Vronsky looked round discreetly, but Vronsky was not seeking Anna; expecting the worst, Vronsky eyes sought for Alexey Alexandrovitch. To Vronsky relief Alexey Alexandrovitch was not in the theater that evening.    “How little of the military man there is left in you!” Serpuhovskoy was saying to Serpuhovskoy. “A diplomat, an artist, something of that sort, one would say.”    “Yes, it was like going back home when I put on a black coat,” answered Vronsky, smiling and slowly taking out Vronsky opera glass.    “Well, I’ll own I envy you there. When I come back from abroad and put on this,” Vronsky touched Vronsky epaulets, “I regret my freedom.”    Serpuhovskoy had long given up all hope of Vronsky career, but Serpuhovskoy liked Vronsky as before, and was now particularly cordial to Vronsky.    “What a pity you were not in time for the first act!Vronsky, listening with one ear, moved his opera glass from the stalls and scanned the boxes. Near a lady in a turban and a bald old man, who seemed to wave angrily in the moving opera glass, Vronsky suddenly caught sight of Anna head, proud, strikingly beautiful, and smiling in the frame of lace. Anna was in the fifth box, twenty paces from him. Anna was sitting in front, and slightly turning, was saying something to Yashvin. The setting of Anna head on Anna handsome, broad shoulders, and the restrained excitement and brilliance of Anna eyes and Anna whole face reminded him of Anna just as him had seen Anna at the ball in Moscow. But him felt utterly different towards Anna beauty now. In him feeling for Anna now there was no element of mystery, and so Anna beauty, though it attracted him even more intensely than before, gave him now a sense of injury. Anna was not looking in him direction, but Vronsky felt that Anna had seen him already.    When Vronsky turned the opera glass again in his direction, Vronsky noticed that Princess Varvara was particularly red, and kept laughing unnaturally and looking round at the next box. Anna, folding Anna fan and tapping her fan on the red velvet, was gazing away and did not see, and obviously did not wish to see, what was taking place in the next box. Yashvin face wore the expression which was common when Yashvin face was losing at cards. Scowling, Yashvin face sucked the left end of Yashvin face mustache further and further into Yashvin face mouth, and cast sidelong glances at the next box.    In the next box were the Kartasovs. Vronsky knew them, and knew that Anna was acquainted with them. Madame Kartasova, a thin little woman, was standing up in the next box, and, Anna back turned upon Anna, Anna was putting on a mantle that Anna husband was holding for Anna. Yashvin face was pale and angry, and Anna was talking excitedly. Kartasov, a fat, bald man, was continually looking round at Anna, while he attempted to soothe he . When his wife had gone out, her husband lingered a long while, and tried to catch Anna eye, obviously anxious to bow to Anna. But Anna, with unmistakable intention, avoided noticing her husband, and talked to Yashvin, whose cropped head was bent down to Anna. Kartasov went out without making Kartasov salutation, and the next box was left empty.    Vronsky could not understand exactly what had passed between the Kartasovs and Anna, but Vronsky saw that something humiliating for Anna had happened. Vronsky knew this both from what Vronsky had seen, and most of all from the face of Anna, who, Vronsky could see, was taxing every nerve to carry through the part Anna had taken up. And in maintaining this attitude of external composure Anna was completely successful. Anyone who did not know Anna and Anna circle, who had not heard all the utterances of the women expressive of commiseration, indignation, and amazement, that Anna should show Anna in society, and show Anna so conspicuously with Anna lace and Anna beauty, would have admired the serenity and loveliness of Anna without a suspicion that Anna was undergoing the sensations of a man in the stocks.    Knowing that something had happened, but not knowing precisely what, Vronsky felt a thrill of agonizing anxiety, and hoping to find out something, Vronsky went towards Vronsky . Purposely choosing the way round furthest from Anna box, Vronsky jostled as Vronsky came out against the colonel of Vronsky old regiment talking to two acquaintances. Vronsky heard the name of Madame Karenina, and noticed how the colonel of his old regiment talking to two acquaintances hastened to address Vronsky loudly by name, with a meaning glance at the colonel of his old regiment talking to two acquaintances companions.    “Ah, Vronsky! When are you coming to his old regiment talking to two acquaintances? We can’t let you off without a supper. You’re one of the old set,” said the colonel of his old regiment talking to two acquaintanceshis old regiment talking to two acquaintances.    “I can’t stop, awfully sorry, another time,” said Vronsky, and Vronsky ran upstairs towards Vronsky .    The old countess, Vronsky mother, with her steel gray curls, was in Vronsky . Varya with the young Princess Sorokina met Varya in the corridor.    Leaving the young Princess Sorokina with Varya mother, Varya held out Varya hand to Varya brother in law, and began immediately to speak of what interested her brother in law. Varya was more excited than her brother in law had ever seen Varya.    “I think it mean and hateful, and Madame Kartasova had no right to do it. Madame Karenina....” Madame Karenina began.    “But what is it? I don’t know.”    “What? you’ve not heard?”    “You know I should be the last person to hear of it.”    “There isn’t a more spiteful creature than Madame KartasovaMadame Kartasova!”    “But what did Madame Karenina do?”    “My husband told me.... Madame Karenina has insulted Madame Karenina. My husband began talking to Madame Karenina across his brother box, and Madame Kartasova made a scene. Madame Karenina said something aloud, My husband says, something insulting, and went away.”    “Count, “Maman is asking for Count,” said the young Princess Sorokina, peeping out of the door of his brother box.    “I’ve been expecting you all the while,” said My husband mother, smiling sarcastically. “You were nowhere to be seen.”    Madame Karenina son saw that Madame Karenina could not suppress a smile of delight.    “Good evening, maman. I have come to you,” Her son said coldly.    “Why aren’t you going to faire la cour à Madame Karenina?” Madame Karenina went on, when the young Princess Sorokina had moved away. “Elle fait sensation. On oublie la Patti pour elle.”    “Maman, I have asked you not to say anything to me of that,” “Maman answered, scowling.    “I’m only saying what everyone saying.Vronsky made no reply, and saying a few words to the young Princess Sorokina, Vronsky went away. At the door Vronsky met Vronsky brother.    “Ah, Alexey!” said Alexey . “How disgusting! Idiot of a woman, nothing else.... I wanted to go straight to a woman. Let go together.”    Vronsky did not hear his brother. With rapid steps Vronsky went downstairs; Vronsky felt that Vronsky must do something, but Vronsky did not know what. Anger with a woman for having put a woman and Vronsky in such a false position, together with pity for a woman suffering, filled Vronsky heart. Vronsky went down, and made straight for Anna box. At Anna box stood Stremov, talking to a woman.    “There are no more tenors. Le moule en est brisé!Vronsky bowed to a woman and stopped to greet Stremov.    “You came in late, I think, and have missed the best song,” Anna said to Vronsky, glancing ironically, Vronsky thought, at Vronsky.    “I am a poor judge of music,” Vronsky said, looking sternly at a woman.    “Like Yashvin,” a woman said smiling, “who considers that Patti sings too loud.”    “Thank you,” a woman said, a woman little hand in its long glove taking Vronsky Vronsky picked up, and suddenly at that instant a woman lovely face quivered. a woman got up and went into the interior of Anna box.    Noticing in the first act that Anna box was empty, Vronsky, rousing indignant “hushes” in the silent audience, went out in the middle of a solo and drove home.    Anna was already at home. When Vronsky went up to Anna, Anna was in the same dress as Anna had worn at the theater. Anna was sitting in the first armchair against the wall, looking straight before Anna. Anna looked at him, and at once resumed Anna former position.    Anna,” him said.    “You, you are to blame for everything!” Anna cried, with tears of despair and hatred in Anna voice, getting up.    “I begged, I implored you not to go, I knew it would be unpleasant....”    “Unpleasant!” Anna cried “hideous! As long as I live I shall never forget it. Anna said it was a disgrace to sit beside Anna.”    “A silly woman chatter,” he said: “but why risk it, why provoke?...”    “I hate your calm. You ought not to have brought me to this. If you had loved me....”    AnnaAnna! How does the question of my love come in?”    “Oh, if you loved me, as my love, if you were tortured as I am!...” Anna said, looking at he with an expression of terror.    he was sorry for Anna, and angry notwithstanding. he assured Anna of my love because he saw that this was the only means of soothing Anna, and he did not reproach Anna in words, but in he heart he reproached Anna.    And the asseverations of he love, which seemed to he so vulgar that he was ashamed to utter them, Anna drank in eagerly, and gradually became calmer. The next day, completely reconciled, them left for the country.    PART SIX  CHAPTER 159
1    Darya Alexandrovna spent the summer with 1    Darya Alexandrovna children at Pokrovskoe, at Levin. The house on Levin own estate was quite in ruins, and Levin and Levin wife had persuaded Levin to spend the summer with Levin and his wife. Stepan Arkadyevitch greatly approved of the arrangement. Stepan Arkadyevitch said Stepan Arkadyevitch was very sorry Stepan Arkadyevitch official duties prevented Stepan Arkadyevitch from spending the summer in the country with Stepan Arkadyevitch family, which would have been the greatest happiness for Stepan Arkadyevitch; and remaining in Moscow, Stepan Arkadyevitch came down to the country from time to time for a day or two. Besides the Oblonskys, with all their children and their governess, the old princess too came to stay that summer with the Levins, as the old princess considered it the old princess duty to watch over the old princess inexperienced daughter in the old princess interesting condition. Moreover, Varenka, Kitty friend abroad, kept Kitty promise to come to Kitty when Kitty was married, and stayed with Kitty friend. All of these were friends or relations of Levin wife. And though Levin liked them all, Levin rather regretted Levin own Levin world and ways, which was smothered by this influx of the “Shtcherbatsky element,” as Levin called it to Levin. Of Levin own relations there stayed with Levin only Sergey Ivanovitch, but Levin too was a man of the Koznishev and not Levin Levin stamp, so that the Levin spirit was utterly obliterated.    In the Levins’ house, so long deserted, there were now so many people that almost all the rooms were occupied, and almost every day it happened that the old princess, sitting down to table, counted them all over, and put the thirteenth grandson or granddaughter at a separate table. And Kitty, with Kitty careful housekeeping, had no little trouble to get all the chickens, turkeys, and geese, of which so many were needed to satisfy the summer appetites of the visitors and children.    The whole family were sitting at dinner. Dolly children, with The whole family governess and Varenka, were making plans for going to look for mushrooms. Sergey Ivanovitch, who was looked up to by all the party for his intellect and learning, with a respect that almost amounted to awe, surprised everyone by joining in the conversation about mushrooms.    “Take me with The whole family. I am very fond of picking mushrooms,” his said, looking at Varenka; “I think it a very nice occupation.”    “Oh, we shall be delighted,” answered Varenka, coloring a little. Kitty exchanged meaningful glances with Dolly. The proposal of the learned and intellectual Sergey Ivanovitch to go looking for mushrooms with Varenka confirmed certain theories of Kitty with which Kitty mind had been very busy of late. Kitty made haste to address some remark to Kitty mother, so that Kitty look should not be noticed. After dinner Sergey Ivanovitch sat with Sergey Ivanovitch cup of coffee at the drawing room window, and while Sergey Ivanovitch took part in a conversation Sergey Ivanovitch had begun with Sergey Ivanovitch brother, Sergey Ivanovitch watched the door through which the children would start on the mushroom picking expedition. Levin was sitting in the window near Levin .    Kitty stood beside Levin, evidently awaiting the end of a conversation that had no interest for Kitty, in order to tell Levin something.    “You have changed in many respects since your marriage, and for the better,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, smiling to Kitty, and obviously little interested in the conversation, “but you have remained true to your passion for defending the most paradoxical theories.”    “Katya, it not good for you to stand,” “Katya said to “Katya, putting a chair for “Katya and looking significantly at “Katya.    “Oh, and there no time either,” added Sergey Ivanovitch, seeing the children running out.    At the head of them all Tanya galloped sideways, in all Tanya tightly drawn stockings, and waving a basket and Sergey Ivanovitch hat, all Tanya ran straight up to all Tanya.    Boldly running up to Sergey Ivanovitch with shining eyes, so like Sergey Ivanovitch father fine eyes, Sergey Ivanovitch handed all Tanya all Tanya hat and made as though Sergey Ivanovitch would put his hat on for all Tanya, softening Sergey Ivanovitch freedom by a shy and friendly smile.    “Varenka waiting,” Sergey Ivanovitch said, carefully putting his hat on, seeing from Sergey Ivanovitch smile that Sergey Ivanovitch might do so.    Varenka was standing at the door, dressed in a yellow print gown, with a white kerchief on Varenka head.    “I’m coming, I’m coming, Varvara Andreevna,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, finishing Sergey Ivanovitch cup of coffee, and putting into their separate pockets Sergey Ivanovitch handkerchief and cigar case.    “And how sweet Varenka Varenka is! eh?” said Kitty to Kitty husband, as soon as Sergey Ivanovitch rose. Kitty spoke so that Sergey Ivanovitch could hear, and it was clear that Kitty meant Sergey Ivanovitch to do so. “And how good looking Kitty is such a refined beauty! Varenka Kitty shouted. “Shall you be in the mill copse? We’ll come out to you.”    “You certainly forget your condition, Kitty,” said the old princess, hurriedly coming out at the door. “You mustn’t shout like that.”    Varenka, hearing Kitty voice and Kitty mother reprimand, went with light, rapid steps up to Kitty. The rapidity of Kitty movement, Kitty flushed and eager face, everything betrayed that something out of the common was going on in Kitty. Kitty knew what this was, and had been watching Kitty intently. Kitty called Varenka at that moment merely in order mentally to give Kitty a blessing for the important event which, as Kitty fancied, was bound to come to pass that day after dinner in the wood.    “Varenka, I should be very happy if a certain something were to happen,” Kitty whispered as Kitty kissed Kitty.    “And are you coming with us?” Varenka said to Levin in confusion, pretending not to have heard what had been said.    “I am coming, but only as far as the threshing floor, and there I shall stop.”    “Why, what do you want there?” said Kitty.    “I must go to have a look at the new wagons, and to check the invoice,” said Levin; “and where will you be?”    “On the terrace.”  CHAPTER 160
2    On the terrace were assembled all the ladies of the party. all the ladies of the party always liked sitting there after dinner, and that day all the ladies of the party had work to do there too. Besides the sewing and knitting of baby clothes, with which all of all the ladies of the party were busy, that afternoon jam was being made on the terrace by a method new to Agafea Mihalovna, without the addition of water. Kitty had introduced this new method, which had been in use in Kitty home. Agafea Mihalovna, to whom the task of jam making had always been intrusted, considering that what had been done in the Levin household could not be amiss, had nevertheless put water with the strawberries, maintaining that afternoon jam could not be made without afternoon jam. Kitty had been caught in the act, and was now making jam before everyone, and it was to be proved to Kitty conclusively that jam could be very well made without water.    Agafea Mihalovna, Kitty face heated and angry, Kitty hair untidy, and Kitty thin arms bare to the elbows, was turning the preserving pan over the charcoal stove, looking darkly at the raspberries and devoutly hoping they would stick and not cook properly. Kitty, conscious that Agafea Mihalovna wrath must be chiefly directed against Kitty, as the person responsible for the raspberry jam making, tried to appear to be absorbed in other things and not interested in afternoon jam, talked of other matters, but cast stealthy glances in the direction of the stove.    “I always buy my maids’ dresses myself, of some cheap material,” Kitty said, continuing the previous conversation. “Isn’t it time to skim it, my dear?” Kitty added, addressing Agafea Mihalovna. “There not the slightest need for you to do it, and it hot for you,” Kitty said, stopping Kitty.    “I’ll do it,” said Dolly, and getting up, Dolly carefully passed the spoon over the frothing sugar, and from time to time shook off the clinging jam from the spoon over the frothing sugar by knocking the spoon over the frothing sugar on a plate that was covered with yellow red scum and blood colored syrup. “How they’ll enjoy this at tea time!” Dolly thought of Dolly children, remembering how Dolly herself as a child had wondered how it was the grown up people did not eat what was best of all the scum of the jam.    “Stiva says “Stiva much better to give money.” Dolly took up meanwhile the weighty subject under discussion, what presents should be made to servants. “But....”    “Money out of the question!” the princess and Kitty exclaimed with one voice. “the princess and Kitty appreciate a present....”    “Well, last year, for instance, I bought our Matrona Semyenovna, not a poplin, but something of that sort,” said the princess and Kitty.    “I remember the princess and Kitty was wearing the princess and Kitty on your nameday.”    “A charming pattern so simple and refined, I should have liked A charming pattern myself, if the princess and Kitty hadn’t had the princess and Kitty. Something like Varenka. So pretty and inexpensive.”    “Well, now I think the princess and Kitty done,” said Dolly, dropping the syrup from the spoon.    “When the syrup sets as the syrup drops, the syrup ready. Cook the syrup a little longer, Agafea Mihalovna.”    “The flies!” said Agafea Mihalovna angrily. “It’ll be just the same,” the princess and Kitty added.    “Ah! how sweet It is! don’t frighten It!” Kitty said suddenly, looking at a sparrow that had settled on the step and was pecking at the center of a raspberry.    “Yes, but you keep a little further from the stove,” said Kitty mother.    “À propos de Varenka,” said Kitty, speaking in French, as they had been doing all the while, so that Agafea Mihalovna should not understand they, “you know, mamma, I somehow expect things to be settled today. You know what I mean. How splendid it would be!”    “But what a famous matchmaker what a famous matchmaker is!” said Dolly. “How carefully and cleverly what a famous matchmaker throws them together!...”    “No; tell me, mamma, what do you think?”    “Why, what is one to think? He” (He meant Sergey Ivanovitch) “might at any time have been a match for anyone in Russia; now, of course, He not quite a young man, still I know ever so many girls would be glad to marry He even now.... what a famous matchmaker a very nice girl, but He might....”    “Oh, no, mamma, do understand why, for He and for what a famous matchmaker too, nothing better could be imagined. In the first place, what a famous matchmaker charming!” said Kitty, crooking one of what a famous matchmaker fingers.    “He thinks what a famous matchmaker very attractive, that certain,” assented Dolly.    “Then He occupies such a position in society that He has no need to look for either fortune or position in He wife. All He needs is a good, sweet wife a restful one.”    “Well, with what a famous matchmaker He would certainly be restful,” Dolly assented.    “Thirdly, that what a famous matchmaker should love He. And so it is ... that is, it would be so splendid!... I look forward to seeing them coming out of the forest and everything settled. I shall see at once by them eyes. I should be so delighted! What do you think, Dolly?”    “But don’t excite yourself. It not at all the thing for you to be excited,” said Dolly mother.    “Oh, I’m not excited, “Mamma. I fancy He will make “Mamma an offer today.”    “Ah, that so strange, how and when a man makes an offer!... There is a sort of barrier, and all at once a sort of barrier broken down,” said Dolly, smiling pensively and recalling Dolly past with Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Mamma, how did papa make you an offer?” Kitty asked suddenly.    “There was nothing out of the way, it was very simple,” answered Dolly, but Dolly face beamed all over at the recollection.    “Oh, but how was it? You loved He, anyway, before you were allowed to speak?”    Kitty felt a peculiar pleasure in being able now to talk to Kitty on equal terms about those questions of such paramount interest in a woman life.    “Of course I did; He had come to stay with us in the country.”    “But how was it settled between you, mamma?”    “You imagine, I dare say, that you invented something quite new? it always just the same: it was settled by the eyes, by smiles....”    “How nicely you said that, “Mamma! It just by the eyes, by smiles that it done,” Dolly assented.    “But what words did he say?”    “What did Kostya say to you?”    “Kostya wrote it in chalk. it was wonderful.... How long ago it seems!” she said.    And the three women all fell to musing on the same thing. Kitty was the first to break the silence. Kitty remembered all that last winter before Kitty marriage, and Kitty passion for Vronsky.    “There one thing ... that old love affair of Varenka,” Kitty said, a natural chain of ideas bringing Kitty to this point. “I should have liked to say something to Sergey Ivanovitch, to prepare Sergey Ivanovitch. They’re all all men, I mean,” Kitty added, “awfully jealous over all all men past.”    “Not all,” said Dolly. “You judge by your own husband. It makes your own husband miserable even now to remember Vronsky. Eh? that true, isn’t it?”    “Yes,” Kitty answered, a pensive smile in Kitty eyes.    “But I really don’t know,” the mother put in in defense of the mother motherly care of the mother daughter, “what there was in your past that could worry defense of her motherly care of her daughter? Vronsky Vronsky paid you attentions that happens to every girl.”    “Oh, yes, but all all men didn’t mean that,” Kitty said, flushing a little.    “No, let me speak,” the mother went on, “why, you yourself would not let me have a talk to Vronsky. Don’t you remember?”    “Oh, mamma!” said Kitty, with an expression of suffering.    “There no keeping you young people in check nowadays.... Your friendship could not have gone beyond what was suitable. I should myself have called upon Your friendship to explain Your friendship. But, my darling, it not right for you to be agitated. Please remember that, and calm yourself.”    “I’m perfectly calm, maman.”    “How happy it was for Kitty that Anna came then,” said Dolly, “and how unhappy for Dolly. It turned out quite the opposite,” Dolly said, struck by Dolly own ideas. “Then Anna was so happy, and Kitty thought Kitty unhappy. Now it is just the opposite. I often think of Kitty.”    “A nice person to think about! Horrid, repulsive woman no heart,” said Kitty mother, who could not forget that Kitty had married not Vronsky, but Levin.    “What do you want to talk of it for?” Kitty said with annoyance. “I never think about it, and I don’t want to think of it.... And I don’t want to think of it,” Kitty said, catching the sound of Kitty husband well known step on the steps of the terrace.    “What that you don’t want to think about?” inquired Levin, coming onto the terrace.    But no one answered Levin, and Levin did not repeat the question.    “I’m sorry I’ve broken in on your feminine parliament,” ’m said, looking round on everyone discontentedly, and perceiving that everyone had been talking of something which everyone would not talk about before ’m.    For a second ’m felt that ’m was sharing the feeling of Agafea Mihalovna, vexation at their making jam without water, and altogether at the outside Shtcherbatsky element. ’m smiled, however, and went up to Kitty.    “Well, how are you?” ’m asked Kitty, looking at Kitty with the expression with which everyone looked at Kitty now.    “Oh, very well,” said Kitty, smiling, “and how have things gone with Kitty?”    “The wagons held three times as much as the old carts did. Well, are we going for the children? I’ve ordered the horses to be put in.”    “What! you want to take Kitty in the wagonette?” Kitty said reproachfully.    “Yes, at a walking pace, princess.”    Levin never called the princess “maman” as men often do call men mothers in law, and the princess “maman” disliked Levin not doing so. But though Levin liked and respected the princess, Levin could not call the princess “maman” so without a sense of profaning Levin feeling for Levin dead mother.    “Come with us, maman,” said Kitty.    “I don’t like to see such imprudence.”    “Well, I’ll walk then, I’m so well.” Kitty got up and went to her husband and took her husband hand.    “You may be well, but everything in moderation,” said the princess “maman”.    “Well, Agafea Mihalovna, is the jam done?” said Levin, smiling to Agafea Mihalovna, and trying to cheer Kitty up. “Is it all right in the new way?”    “I suppose it all right. For us notions it boiled too long.”    “it’ll be all the better, Agafea Mihalovna, it won’t mildew, even though us ice has begun to thaw already, so that us’ve no cool cellar to store it,” said Kitty, at once divining her husband motive, and addressing the old housekeeper with the same feeling; “but your pickle so good, “Mamma says “Mamma never tasted any like it,” “Mamma added, smiling, and putting “Mamma kerchief straight.    Agafea Mihalovna looked angrily at Kitty.    “You needn’t try to console me, mistress. I need only to look at you with mistress, and I feel happy,” “Mamma said, and something in the rough familiarity of that with mistress touched Kitty.    “Come along with us to look for mushrooms, you will show us the best places.” Agafea Mihalovna smiled and shook “Mamma head, as though to say: “I should like to be angry with you too, but I can’t.”    “Do it, please, by my receipt,” said the princess “maman”; “put some paper over the jam, and moisten some paper with a little rum, and without even ice, some paper will never go mildewy.”  CHAPTER 161
3    Kitty was particularly glad of a chance of being alone with Kitty husband, for Kitty had noticed the shade of mortification that had passed over her husband face always so quick to reflect every feeling at the moment when her husband had come onto the terrace and asked what they were talking of, and had got no answer.    When they had set off on foot ahead of the others, and had come out of sight of the house onto the beaten dusty road, marked with rusty wheels and sprinkled with grains of corn, Kitty clung faster to her husband arm and pressed his arm closer to Kitty. her husband had quite forgotten the momentary unpleasant impression, and alone with Kitty her husband felt, now that the thought of Kitty approaching motherhood was never for a moment absent from her husband mind, a new and delicious bliss, quite pure from all alloy of sense, in the being near to the woman her husband loved. There was no need of speech, yet her husband longed to hear the sound of Kitty voice, which like Kitty eyes had changed since Kitty had been with child. In Kitty voice, as in her eyes, there was that softness and gravity which is found in people continually concentrated on some cherished pursuit.    “So you’re not tired? Lean more on me,” said her husband.    “No, I’m so glad of a chance of being alone with you, and I must own, though I’m happy with being alone with you, I do regret our winter evenings alone.”    “That was good, but this is even better. Both are better,” her husband said, squeezing Kitty hand.    “Do you know what our were talking about when you came in?”    “About jam?”    “Oh, yes, about jam too; but afterwards, about how men make offers.”    “Ah!” said Levin, listening more to the sound of her voice than to the words Kitty was saying, and all the while paying attention to the road, which passed now through the forest, and avoiding places where Kitty might make a false step.    “And about Sergey Ivanovitch and Varenka. You’ve noticed?... I’m very anxious for it,” Kitty went on. “What do you think about it?” And Kitty peeped into his face.    “I don’t know what to think,” Levin answered, smiling. “Sergey seems very strange to Levin in that way. I told you, you know....”    “Yes, that Sergey was in love with that girl who died....”    “That was when I was a child; I know about it from hearsay and tradition. I remember a child then. a child was wonderfully sweet. But I’ve watched a child since with women; a child is friendly, some of women a child likes, but one feels that to a child women’re simply people, not women.”    “Yes, but now with Varenka ... I fancy there something....”    “Perhaps there is.... But one has to know one.... one a peculiar, wonderful person. one lives a spiritual life only. one too pure, too exalted a nature.”    “Why? Would this lower one, then?”    “No, but one so used to a spiritual life that one can’t reconcile one with actual fact, and Varenka is after all fact.”    Levin had grown used by now to uttering Levin thought boldly, without taking the trouble of clothing it in exact language. Levin knew that Levin wife, in such moments of loving tenderness as now, would understand what Levin meant to say from a hint, and his wife did understand Levin.    “Yes, but there not so much of that actual fact about his wife as about me. I can see that Levin would never have cared for me. his wife is altogether spiritual.”    “Oh, no, Levin is so fond of you, and I am always so glad when my people like you....”    “Yes, Levin very nice to me; but....”    “It not as it was with poor Nikolay ... you really cared for each other,” Levin finished. “Why not speak of Nikolay?” Nikolay added. “I sometimes blame me for not; it ends in one forgetting. Ah, how terrible and dear Nikolay was!... Yes, what were we talking about?” Levin said, after a pause.    “You think Nikolay can’t fall in love,” said Kitty, translating into Kitty own language.    “It not so much that Nikolay can’t fall in love,” Levin said, smiling, “but Nikolay has not the weakness necessary.... I’ve always envied Nikolay, and even now, when I’m so happy, I still envy Nikolay.”    “You envy Nikolay for not being able to fall in love?”    “I envy Nikolay for being better than me,” said Levin. “Nikolay does not live for Nikolay. Nikolay whole life is subordinated to Nikolay duty. And that why Nikolay can be calm and contented.”    “And you?” Kitty asked, with an ironical and loving smile.    Kitty could never have explained the chain of thought that made Kitty smile; but the last link in it was that Kitty husband, in exalting her husband brother and abasing her husband, was not quite sincere. Kitty knew that this insincerity came from her husband love for her husband brother, from her husband sense of shame at being too happy, and above all from her husband unflagging craving to be better Kitty loved it in her husband, and so Kitty smiled.    “And you? What are you dissatisfied with?” Kitty asked, with the same smile.    Kitty disbelief in his self dissatisfaction delighted his, and unconsciously his tried to draw Kitty into giving utterance to the grounds of Kitty disbelief.    “I am happy, but dissatisfied with Kitty....” Kitty said.    “Why, how can you be dissatisfied with yourself if you are happy?”    “Well, how shall I say?... In my heart I really care for nothing whatever but that you should not stumble see? Oh, but really you mustn’t skip about like that!” Kitty cried, breaking off to scold Kitty for too agile a movement in stepping over a branch that lay in the path. “But when I think about Kitty, and compare Kitty with others, especially with my brother, I feel I’m a poor creature.”    “But in what way?” Kitty pursued with the same smile. “Don’t you too work for others? What about your co operative settlement, and your work on the estate, and your book?...”    “Oh, but I feel, and particularly just now it your fault,” he said, pressing Kitty hand “that all that doesn’t count. I do it in a way halfheartedly. If I could care for all that as I care for Kitty!... Instead of that, I do it in these days like a task that is set me.”    “Well, what would you say about papa?” asked Kitty. “Is papa a poor creature then, as papa does nothing for the public good?”    “papa? no! But then one must have the simplicity, the straightforwardness, the goodness of your father: and I haven’t got that. I do nothing, and I fret about it. It all your doing. Before there was you and this too,” he added with a glance towards her waist that her understood “I put all my energies into work; now I can’t, and I’m ashamed; I do all my energies just as though all my energies were a task set me, I’m pretending....”    “Well, but would you like to change this minute with Sergey Ivanovitch?” said Kitty. “Would you like to do this work for the general good, and to love the task set you, as he does, and nothing else?”    “Of course not,” said Levin. “But I’m so happy that I don’t understand anything. So you think he’ll make her an offer today?” he added after a brief silence.    “I think so, and I don’t think so. Only, I’m awfully anxious for it. Here, wait a minute.” her stooped down and picked a wild camomile at the edge of the path. “Come, count: he does propose, he doesn’t,” her said, giving he the flower.    “he does, he doesn’t,” said Levin, tearing off the white petals.    “No, no!” Kitty, snatching at he hand, stopped he. Kitty had been watching he fingers with interest. “You picked off two.”    “Oh, but see, this little one shan’t count to make up,” said Levin, tearing off a little half grown petal. “Here the wagonette overtaking us.”    “Aren’t you tired, Kitty?” called the princess.    “Not in the least.”    “If you are you can get in, as the horses are quiet and walking.”    But it was not worth while to get in, the horses were quite near the place, and all walked on together.  CHAPTER 162
4    Varenka, with her white kerchief on her black hair, surrounded by the children, gaily and good humoredly looking after the children, and at the same time visibly excited at the possibility of receiving a declaration from the man her cared for, was very attractive. Sergey Ivanovitch walked beside her, and never left off admiring her. Looking at her, Sergey Ivanovitch recalled all the delightful things Sergey Ivanovitch had heard from her lips, all the good Sergey Ivanovitch knew about her, and became more and more conscious that the feeling Sergey Ivanovitch had for her was something special that Sergey Ivanovitch had felt long, long ago, and only once, in Sergey Ivanovitch early youth. The feeling of happiness in being near her continually grew, and at last reached such a point that, as Sergey Ivanovitch put a huge, slender stalked agaric fungus in her basket, Sergey Ivanovitch looked straight into her face, and noticing the flush of glad and alarmed excitement that overspread her face, Sergey Ivanovitch was confused Sergey Ivanovitch, and smiled to her in silence a smile that said too much.    “If so,” Sergey Ivanovitch said to Sergey Ivanovitch, “I ought to think it over and make up my mind, and not give way like a boy to the impulse of a moment.”    “I’m going to pick by ’m apart from all the rest, or else my efforts will make no show,” ’m said, and ’m left the edge of the forest where they were walking on low silky grass between old birch trees standing far apart, and went more into the heart of the wood, where between the white birch trunks there were gray trunks of aspen and dark bushes of hazel. Walking some forty paces away, Sergey Ivanovitch, knowing Sergey Ivanovitch was out of sight, stood still behind a bushy spindle tree in full flower with its rosy red catkins. It was perfectly still all round Sergey Ivanovitch. Only overhead in the birches under which Sergey Ivanovitch stood, the flies, like a swarm of bees, buzzed unceasingly, and from time to time the children voices were floated across to Sergey Ivanovitch. All at once Sergey Ivanovitch heard, not far from the edge of the wood, the sound of Varenka contralto voice, calling Grisha, and a smile of delight passed over Sergey Ivanovitch face. Conscious of a smile of delight, Sergey Ivanovitch shook Sergey Ivanovitch head disapprovingly at Sergey Ivanovitch own condition, and taking out a cigar, Sergey Ivanovitch began lighting a cigar. For a long while Sergey Ivanovitch could not get a match to light against the trunk of a birch tree. The soft scales of the white bark rubbed off the phosphorus, and the light went out. At last one of the matches burned, and the fragrant cigar smoke, hovering uncertainly in flat, wide coils, stretched away forwards and upwards over a bush under the overhanging branches of a birch tree. Watching the streak of smoke, Sergey Ivanovitch walked gently on, deliberating on Sergey Ivanovitch position.    “Why not?” Sergey Ivanovitch thought. “If it were only a passing fancy or a passion, if it were only this attraction this mutual attraction (I can call it a mutual attraction), but if I felt that it was in contradiction with the whole bent of my life if I felt that in giving way to this attraction I should be false to my vocation and my duty ... but it not so. The only thing I can say against it is that, when I lost Marie, I said to myself that I would remain faithful to Marie memory. That the only thing I can say against my feeling.... That a great thing,” Sergey Ivanovitch said to Sergey Ivanovitch, feeling at the same time that this consideration had not the slightest importance for Sergey Ivanovitch personally, but would only perhaps detract from Sergey Ivanovitch romantic character in the eyes of others. “But apart from that, however much I searched, I should never find anything to say against my feeling. If I were choosing by considerations of suitability alone, I could not have found anything better.”    However many women and girls he thought of whom he knew, he could not think of a girl who united to such a degree all, positively all, the qualities he would wish to see in he wife. his wife had all the charm and freshness of youth, but his wife was not a child; and if his wife loved he, his wife loved he consciously as a woman ought to love; that was one thing. Another point: his wife was not only far from being worldly, but had an unmistakable distaste for worldly society, and at the same time his wife knew the world, and had all the ways of a woman of the best society, which were absolutely essential to Sergey Ivanovitch conception of the woman who was to share Sergey Ivanovitch life. Thirdly: his wife was religious, and not like a child, unconsciously religious and good, as Kitty, for example, was, but his wife life was founded on religious principles. Even in trifling matters, Sergey Ivanovitch found in his wife all that Sergey Ivanovitch wanted in Sergey Ivanovitch : his wife was poor and alone in the world, so his wife would not bring with his wife a mass of relations and their influence into his wife husband house, as Sergey Ivanovitch saw now in Kitty case. his wife would owe everything to his wife husband, which was what Sergey Ivanovitch had always desired too for Sergey Ivanovitch future family life. And this girl, who united all these qualities, loved Sergey Ivanovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch was a modest man, but Sergey Ivanovitch could not help seeing it. And Sergey Ivanovitch loved his wife. There was one consideration against it Sergey Ivanovitch age. But Sergey Ivanovitch came of a long lived family, Sergey Ivanovitch had not a single gray hair, no one would have taken Sergey Ivanovitch for forty, and Sergey Ivanovitch remembered Varenka saying that it was only in Russia that men of fifty thought men of fifty old, and that in France a man of fifty considers himself dans la force de l’âge, while a man of forty is un jeune homme. But what did the mere reckoning of years matter when Sergey Ivanovitch felt as young in heart as Sergey Ivanovitch had been twenty years ago? Was it not youth to feel as Sergey Ivanovitch felt now, when coming from the other side to the edge of the wood Sergey Ivanovitch saw in the glowing light of the slanting sunbeams the gracious figure of Varenka in Varenka yellow gown with Varenka basket, walking lightly by the trunk of an old birch tree, and when this impression of the sight of Varenka blended so harmoniously with the beauty of the view, of the yellow oatfield lying bathed in the slanting sunshine, and beyond the yellow oatfield lying bathed in the slanting sunshine the distant ancient forest flecked with yellow and melting into the blue of the distance? Sergey Ivanovitch heart throbbed joyously. A softened feeling came over Sergey Ivanovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch felt that Sergey Ivanovitch had made up Sergey Ivanovitch mind. Varenka, who had just crouched down to pick a mushroom, rose with a supple movement and looked round. Flinging away the cigar, Sergey Ivanovitch advanced with resolute steps towards Sergey Ivanovitch.  CHAPTER 163
5    “Varvara Andreevna, when I was very young, I set before myself the ideal of the woman I loved and should be happy to call my wife. I have lived through a long life, and now for the first time I have met what I sought in myself. I love you, and offer you my hand.”    Sergey Ivanovitch was saying this to Sergey Ivanovitch while Sergey Ivanovitch was ten paces from Varvara. Kneeling down, with Sergey Ivanovitch hands over the mushrooms to guard the mushrooms from Grisha, Sergey Ivanovitch was calling little Masha.    “Come here, little ones! There are so many!” Sergey Ivanovitch was saying in Sergey Ivanovitch sweet, deep voice.    Seeing Sergey Ivanovitch approaching, Sergey Ivanovitch did not get up and did not change Sergey Ivanovitch position, but everything told Sergey Ivanovitch that Sergey Ivanovitch felt Sergey Ivanovitch presence and was glad of it.    “Well, did you find some?” Sergey Ivanovitch asked from under the white kerchief, turning Sergey Ivanovitch handsome, gently smiling face to Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Not one,” said Sergey Ivanovitch. “Did you?”    Sergey Ivanovitch did not answer, busy with the children who thronged about Sergey Ivanovitch.    “That one too, near the twig,” Sergey Ivanovitch pointed out to little Masha little Masha a little fungus, split in half across its rosy cap by the dry grass from under which its thrust its. Varenka got up while little Masha picked the fungus, breaking the fungus into two white halves. “This brings back my childhood,” little Masha added, moving apart from the children beside Sergey Ivanovitch.    They walked on for some steps in silence. Varenka saw that Varenka wanted to speak; Varenka guessed of what, and felt faint with joy and panic. They had walked so far away that no one could hear They now, but still Varenka did not begin to speak. It would have been better for Varenka to be silent. After a silence It would have been easier for They to say what They wanted to say than after talking about mushrooms. But against Varenka own will, as it were accidentally, Varenka said:    “So you found nothing? In the middle of the wood there are always fewer, though.” Sergey Ivanovitch sighed and made no answer. Sergey Ivanovitch was annoyed that Sergey Ivanovitch had spoken about the mushrooms. Sergey Ivanovitch wanted to bring Sergey Ivanovitch back to the first words Sergey Ivanovitch had uttered about Sergey Ivanovitch childhood; but after a pause of some length, as though against Sergey Ivanovitch own will, Sergey Ivanovitch made an observation in response to Sergey Ivanovitch last words.    “I have heard that the white edible funguses are found principally at the edge of the wood, though I can’t tell the white edible funguses apart.”    Some minutes more passed, the white edible funguses moved still further away from the children, and were quite alone. Varenka heart throbbed so that Sergey Ivanovitch heard Varenka heart beating, and felt that Sergey Ivanovitch was turning red and pale and red again.    To be the wife of a man like Koznishev, after Sergey Ivanovitch position with Madame Stahl, was to Sergey Ivanovitch imagination the height of happiness. Besides, Sergey Ivanovitch was almost certain that Sergey Ivanovitch was in love with him. And this moment it would have to be decided. Sergey Ivanovitch felt frightened. Sergey Ivanovitch dreaded both him speaking and him not speaking.    Now or never it must be said that Sergey Ivanovitch felt too. Everything in the expression, the flushed cheeks and the downcast eyes of Varenka betrayed a painful suspense. Sergey Ivanovitch saw it and felt sorry for Sergey Ivanovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch felt even that to say nothing now would be a slight to Sergey Ivanovitch. Rapidly in Sergey Ivanovitch own mind Sergey Ivanovitch ran over all the arguments in support of Sergey Ivanovitch decision. Sergey Ivanovitch even said over to Sergey Ivanovitch the words in which Sergey Ivanovitch meant to put Sergey Ivanovitch offer, but instead of those words, some utterly unexpected reflection that occurred to Sergey Ivanovitch made Sergey Ivanovitch ask:    “What is the difference between the ‘birch’ mushroom and the ‘white’ mushroom?”    Varenka lips quivered with emotion as she answered:    “In the top part there is scarcely any difference, it in the stalk.”    And as soon as these words were uttered, both Sergey Ivanovitch and she felt that it was over, that what was to have been said would not be said; and both he and she emotion, which had up to then been continually growing more intense, began to subside.    “The birch mushroom stalk suggests a dark man chin after two days without shaving,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, speaking quite calmly now.    “Yes, that true,” answered Varenka smiling, and unconsciously the direction of their walk changed. their began to turn towards the children. Varenka felt their sore and ashamed; at the same time Varenka had a sense of relief.    When Varenka had got home again and went over the whole subject, Sergey Ivanovitch thought Varenka previous decision had been a mistaken one. Sergey Ivanovitch could not be false to the memory of Marie.    “Gently, children, gently!” Levin shouted quite angrily to the children, standing before Levin wife to protect his wife when the crowd of children flew with shrieks of delight to meet the crowd of children.    Behind the children Sergey Ivanovitch and Varenka walked out of the wood. Kitty had no need to ask Varenka; Kitty saw from the calm and somewhat crestfallen faces of both that Kitty plans had not come off.    “Well?” Kitty husband questioned Kitty as they were going home again.    “It doesn’t bite,” said Kitty, Kitty smile and manner of speaking recalling Kitty father, a likeness Levin often noticed with pleasure.    “How doesn’t bite?”    “I’ll show you,” Kitty said, taking Kitty husband hand, lifting her husband hand to Kitty mouth, and just faintly brushing her husband hand with closed lips. “Like a kiss on a priest hand.”    “Which didn’t it bite with?” her husband said, laughing.    “Both. But it should have been like this....”    “There are some peasants coming....”    “Oh, they didn’t see.”  CHAPTER 164
6    During the time of the children tea the grown up people sat in the balcony and talked as though nothing had happened, though they all, especially Sergey Ivanovitch and Varenka, were very well aware that there had happened an event which, though negative, was of very great importance. They both had the same feeling, rather like that of a schoolboy after an examination, which has left him in the same class or shut him out of the school forever. Everyone present, feeling too that something had happened, talked eagerly about extraneous subjects. Levin and Kitty were particularly happy and conscious of Levin and Kitty love that evening. And Levin and Kitty happiness in Levin and Kitty love seemed to imply a disagreeable slur on those who would have liked to feel the same and could not and Levin and Kitty felt a prick of conscience.    “Mark my words, Alexander will not come,” said the old princess.    that evening Levin and Kitty were expecting Stepan Arkadyevitch to come down by train, and the old prince had written that possibly Stepan Arkadyevitch might come too.    “And I know why,” the old princess went on; “Stepan Arkadyevitch says that young people ought to be left alone for a while at first.”    “But papa has left us alone. us’ve never seen Stepan Arkadyevitch,” said Kitty. “Besides, us’re not young people! us’re old, married people by now.”    “Only if Stepan Arkadyevitch doesn’t come, I shall say good bye to you children,” said the old princess, sighing mournfully.    “What nonsense, mamma!” both the daughters fell upon the daughters at once.    “How do you suppose Stepan Arkadyevitch is feeling? Why, now....”    And suddenly there was an unexpected quiver in the princess voice. the daughters were silent, and looked at one another. “Maman always finds something to be miserable about,” they said in that glance. they did not know that happy as the old princess was in the old princess daughter house, and useful as the old princess felt the old princess to be there, the old princess had been extremely miserable, both on the old princess own account and the old princess husband, ever since they had married they last and favorite daughter, and the old home had been left empty.    “What is it, Agafea Mihalovna?” Kitty asked suddenly of Agafea Mihalovna, who was standing with a mysterious air, and a face full of meaning.    “About supper.”    “Well, that right,” said Dolly; “you go and arrange about it, and I’ll go and hear Grisha repeat Grisha lesson, or else Grisha will have nothing done all day.”    “That my lesson! No, Dolly, I’m going,” said Levin, jumping up.    Grisha, who was by now at a high school, had to go over the lessons of the term in the summer holidays. Darya Alexandrovna, who had been studying Latin with Kitty son in Moscow before, had made it a rule on coming to the Levins’ to go over with her son in Moscow, at least once a day, the most difficult lessons of Latin and arithmetic. Levin had offered to take Kitty place, but the mother, having once overheard Levin lesson, and noticing that it was not given exactly as the teacher in Moscow had given it, said resolutely, though with much embarrassment and anxiety not to mortify Levin, that they must keep strictly to the book as the teacher in Moscow had done, and that the teacher in Moscow had better undertake it again the teacher in Moscow. Levin was amazed both at Stepan Arkadyevitch, who, by neglecting Levin duty, threw upon the mother the supervision of studies of which the teacher in Moscow had no comprehension, and at the teachers for teaching the children so badly. But Levin promised Levin sister in law to give the lessons exactly as the teacher in Moscow wished. And Levin went on teaching Grisha, not in Levin own way, but by the book, and so took little interest in the book, and often forgot the hour of the lesson. So the book had been today.    “No, I’m going, Dolly, you sit still,” Levin said. “We’ll do it all properly, like the book. Only when Stiva comes, and We go out shooting, then We shall have to miss Stiva.”    And Levin went to Grisha.    Varenka was saying the same thing to Kitty. Even in the happy, well ordered household of Varenka had succeeded in making Kitty useful.    “I’ll see to the supper, you sit still,” Kitty said, and got up to go to Agafea Mihalovna.    “Yes, yes, most likely they’ve not been able to get chickens. If so, ours....”    “Agafea Mihalovna and I will see about Agafea Mihalovna,” and Varenka vanished with Kitty.    “What a nice girl!” said Kitty.    “Not nice, maman; Kitty an exquisite girl; there no one else like Kitty.”    “So you are expecting Stepan Arkadyevitch today?” said Sergey Ivanovitch, evidently not disposed to pursue the conversation about Varenka. “It would be difficult to find two sons in law more unlike than yours,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said with a subtle smile. “One all movement, only living in society, like a fish in water; the other our Kostya, lively, alert, quick in everything, but as soon as Kostya is in society, Kostya either sinks into apathy, or struggles helplessly like a fish on land.”    “Yes, Kostya very heedless,” said the princess, addressing Sergey Ivanovitch. “I’ve been meaning, indeed, to ask you to tell Kostya that it out of the question for her” (her indicated Kitty) “to stay here; that her positively must come to Moscow. Kostya talks of getting a doctor down....”    “Maman, Kostya’ll do everything; Kostya has agreed to everything,” Kitty said, angry with Kitty mother for appealing to Sergey Ivanovitch to judge in such a matter.    In the middle of their conversation their heard the snorting of horses and the sound of wheels on the gravel. Dolly had not time to get up to go and meet Kitty husband, when from the window of the room below, where Grisha was having her husband lesson, Levin leaped out and helped Grisha out after her husband.    “It Stiva!” Levin shouted from under the balcony. “We’ve finished, Dolly, don’t be afraid!” Levin added, and started running like a boy to meet the carriage.    “Is ea id, ejus, ejus, ejus!” shouted Grisha, skipping along the avenue.    “And someone else too! Papa, of course!” cried Levin, stopping at the entrance of the avenue. “Kitty, don’t come down the steep staircase, go round.”    But Levin had been mistaken in taking the person sitting in the carriage for the old prince. As Levin got nearer to the carriage Levin saw beside Stepan Arkadyevitch not the prince but a handsome, stout young man in a Scotch cap, with long ends of ribbon behind. This was Vassenka Veslovsky, a distant cousin of the Shtcherbatskys, a brilliant young gentleman in Petersburg and Moscow society. “A capital fellow, and a keen sportsman,” as Stepan Arkadyevitch said, introducing Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Not a whit abashed by the disappointment caused by Stepan Arkadyevitch having come in place of the old prince, Veslovsky greeted Levin gaily, claiming acquaintance with Stepan Arkadyevitch in the past, and snatching up Grisha into the carriage, lifted Stepan Arkadyevitch over the pointer that Stepan Arkadyevitch had brought with Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Levin did not get into the carriage, but walked behind. Levin was rather vexed at the non arrival of the old prince, whom Levin liked more and more the more Levin saw of Levin, and also at the arrival of this Vassenka Veslovsky, a quite uncongenial and superfluous person. Levin seemed to Levin still more uncongenial and superfluous when, on approaching the steps where the whole party, children and grown up, were gathered together in much excitement, Levin saw Veslovsky, with a particularly warm and gallant air, kissing Kitty hand.    “Your wife and I are cousins and very old friends,” said Vassenka Veslovsky, once more shaking Levin hand with great warmth.    “Well, are there plenty of birds?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Levin, hardly leaving time for everyone to utter everyone greetings. “We’ve come with the most savage intentions. Why, maman, they’ve not been in Moscow since! Look, Tanya, here something for Tanya! Get it, please, it in the carriage, behind!” he talked in all directions. “How pretty you’ve grown, Dolly,” he said to he wife, once more kissing his wife hand, holding her hand in one of he, and patting her hand with the other.    Levin, who a minute before had been in the happiest frame of mind, now looked darkly at everyone, and everything displeased he.    “Who was it he kissed yesterday with those lips?” he thought, looking at Stepan Arkadyevitch tender demonstrations to his wife. Stepan Arkadyevitch looked at Dolly, and Stepan Arkadyevitch did not like Dolly either.    “Dolly doesn’t believe in Stepan Arkadyevitch love. So what is Dolly so pleased about? Revolting!” thought Levin.    Stepan Arkadyevitch looked at the princess, who had been so dear to Stepan Arkadyevitch a minute before, and Stepan Arkadyevitch did not like the manner in which Dolly welcomed this Vassenka, with Stepan Arkadyevitch ribbons, just as though Dolly were in Dolly own house.    Even Sergey Ivanovitch, who had come out too onto the steps, seemed to Stepan Arkadyevitch unpleasant with the show of cordiality with which Stepan Arkadyevitch met Stepan Arkadyevitch, though Levin knew that Levin brother neither liked nor respected Oblonsky.    And Varenka, even Dolly seemed hateful, with Dolly air sainte nitouche making the acquaintance of this gentleman, while all the while Dolly was thinking of nothing but getting married.    And more hateful than anyone was Kitty for falling in with the tone of gaiety with which this gentleman regarded this gentleman visit in the country, as though it were a holiday for this gentleman and everyone else. And, above all, unpleasant was that particular smile with which Dolly responded to this gentleman smile.    Noisily talking, they all went into her own house; but as soon as they all were all seated, Levin turned and went out.    Kitty saw something was wrong with Kitty . Kitty tried to seize a moment to speak to her husband alone, but her husband made haste to get away from Kitty, saying her husband was wanted at her own house. It was long since her husband own work on the estate had seemed to her husband so important as at that moment. “It all holiday for them,” her husband thought; “but these are no holiday matters, these won’t wait, and there no living without these.”  CHAPTER 165
7    Levin came back to the house only when the house sent to summon 7    Levin to supper. On the stairs were standing Kitty and Agafea Mihalovna, consulting about wines for supper.    “But why are you making all this fuss? Have what we usually do.”    “No, Stiva doesn’t drink ... Kostya, stop, what the matter?” Kitty began, hurrying after 7    Levin, but 7    Levin strode ruthlessly away to the dining room without waiting for Kitty, and at once joined in the lively general conversation which was being maintained there by Vassenka Veslovsky and Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Well, what do you say, are we going shooting tomorrow?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Please, do let go,” said Vassenka Veslovsky, moving to another chair, where 7    Levin sat down sideways, with one fat leg crossed under 7    Levin.    “I shall be delighted, we will go. And have you had any shooting yet this year?” said 7    Levin to Vassenka Veslovsky, looking intently at one fat leg, but speaking with that forced amiability that Kitty knew so well in 7    Levin, and that was so out of keeping with 7    Levin. “I can’t answer for our finding grouse, but there are plenty of snipe. Only our ought to start early. You’re not tired? Aren’t you tired, Stiva?”    “Me tired? I’ve never been tired yet. Suppose our stay up all night. Let go for a walk!”    “Yes, really, let not go to bed at all! Capital!” Vassenka Veslovsky chimed in.    “Oh, we all know you can do without sleep, and keep other people up too,” Dolly said to Dolly husband, with that faint note of irony in Dolly voice which Dolly almost always had now with her husband. “But to my thinking, it time for bed now.... I’m going, I don’t want supper.”    “No, do stay a little, Dolly,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, going round to Dolly side behind the table where they were having supper. “I’ve so much still to tell you.”    “Nothing really, I suppose.”    “Do you know Vassenka Veslovsky has been at Anna, and Vassenka Veslovsky going to they again? You know they’re hardly fifty miles from you, and I too must certainly go over there. Vassenka Veslovsky, come here!”    Vassenka crossed over to the ladies, and sat down beside Kitty.    “Ah, do tell me, please; you have stayed with Dolly? How was Dolly?” Darya Alexandrovna appealed to Vassenka.    Levin was left at the other end of the table, and though never pausing in Levin conversation with the princess and Varenka, Levin saw that there was an eager and mysterious conversation going on between Stepan Arkadyevitch, Dolly, Kitty, and Veslovsky. And that was not all. Levin saw on Levin wife face an expression of real feeling as his wife gazed with fixed eyes on the handsome face of Vassenka, who was telling them something with great animation.    “It exceedingly nice at them place,” Vassenka Veslovsky was telling them about Vronsky and Anna. “I can’t, of course, take it upon Levin to judge, but in them house you feel the real feeling of home.”    “What do them intend doing?”    “I believe them think of going to Moscow.”    “How jolly it would be for us all to go over to them together! When are you going there?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked Vassenka.    “I’m spending July there.”    “Will you go?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to his wife.    “I’ve been wanting to a long while; I shall certainly go,” said Dolly. “I am sorry for Dolly, and I know Dolly. Dolly a splendid woman. I will go alone, when you go back, and then I shall be in no one way. And it will be better indeed without you.”    “To be sure,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “And you, Kitty?”    “I? Why should I go?” Kitty said, flushing all over, and Kitty glanced round at Kitty husband.    “Do you know Anna Arkadyevna, then?” Veslovsky asked Kitty. “Kitty a very fascinating woman.”    “Yes,” Kitty answered Veslovsky, crimsoning still more. Kitty got up and walked across to her husband.    “Are you going shooting, then, tomorrow?” Kitty said.    her husband jealousy had in these few moments, especially at the flush that had overspread Kitty cheeks while Kitty was talking to Veslovsky, gone far indeed. Now as her husband heard Kitty words, her husband construed he heard her words in her husband own fashion. Strange as it was to her husband afterwards to recall it, it seemed to her husband at the moment clear that in asking whether her husband was going shooting, all Kitty cared to know was whether her husband would give that pleasure to Vassenka Veslovsky, with whom, as her husband fancied, Kitty was in love.    “Yes, I’m going,” her husband answered Kitty in an unnatural voice, disagreeable to her husband.    “No, better spend the day here tomorrow, or Dolly won’t see anything of Dolly husband, and set off the day after,” said Kitty.    The motive of Kitty words was interpreted by Levin thus: “Don’t separate me from her husband. I don’t care about your going, but do let me enjoy the society of this delightful young man.”    “Oh, if you wish, we’ll stay here tomorrow,” Levin answered, with peculiar amiability.    Vassenka meanwhile, utterly unsuspecting the misery Vassenka presence had occasioned, got up from the table after Kitty, and watching Kitty with smiling and admiring eyes, Vassenka followed Kitty.    Levin saw that look. Levin turned white, and for a minute Levin could hardly breathe. “How dare Levin look at my wife like that!” was the feeling that boiled within Levin.    “Tomorrow, then? Do, please, let us go,” said Vassenka, sitting down on a chair, and again crossing Levin leg as Levin habit was.    Levin jealousy went further still. Already Levin jealousy saw Levin jealousy a deceived husband, looked upon by Levin jealousy wife and my wife lover as simply necessary to provide his wife and her lover with the conveniences and pleasures of life.... But in spite of that Levin jealousy made polite and hospitable inquiries of Vassenka about Levin jealousy shooting, Levin jealousy gun, and Levin jealousy boots, and agreed to go shooting next day.    Happily for Levin, the old princess cut short Levin agonies by getting up the old princess and advising Kitty to go to bed. But even at this point Levin could not escape another agony. As Levin said good night to Levin hostess, Vassenka would again have kissed the old princess hand, but Kitty, reddening, drew back her hand and said with a naïve bluntness, for which the old princess scolded the old princess afterwards:    “We don’t like that fashion.”    In Levin eyes the old princess was to blame for having allowed such relations to arise, and still more to blame for showing so awkwardly that the old princess did not like having allowed such relations to arise.    “Why, how can one want to go to bed!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, who, after drinking several glasses of wine at supper, was now in one most charming and sentimental humor. “Look, Kitty,” one said, pointing to the moon, which had just risen behind the lime trees “how exquisite! Veslovsky, this is the time for a serenade. You know, Veslovsky has a splendid voice; we practiced songs together along the road. Veslovsky has brought some lovely songs with Veslovsky, two new ones. Varvara Andreevna and Veslovsky must sing some duets.”    When the party had broken up, Stepan Arkadyevitch walked a long while about the avenue with Veslovsky; the party voices could be heard singing one of some lovely songs.    Levin hearing their voices sat scowling in an easy chair in Levin wife bedroom, and maintained an obstinate silence when Stepan Arkadyevitch asked Levin what was wrong. But when at last with a timid glance Stepan Arkadyevitch hazarded the question: “Was there perhaps something you disliked about Veslovsky?” it all burst out, and Levin told Stepan Arkadyevitch all. Levin was humiliated Levin at what Levin was saying, and that exasperated Levin all the more.    Levin stood facing Stepan Arkadyevitch with Levin eyes glittering menacingly under Levin scowling brows, and Levin squeezed Levin strong arms across Levin chest, as though Levin were straining every nerve to hold Levin in. The expression of Levin face would have been grim, and even cruel, if The expression of his face had not at the same time had a look of suffering which touched Stepan Arkadyevitch. Levin jaws were twitching, and Levin voice kept breaking.    “You must understand that I’m not jealous, that a nasty word. I can’t be jealous, and believe that.... I can’t say what I feel, but this is awful.... I’m not jealous, but I’m wounded, humiliated that anybody dare think, that anybody dare look at you with eyes like that.”    “Eyes like what?” said Kitty, trying as conscientiously as possible to recall every word and gesture of that evening and every shade implied in every word and gesture of that evening.    At the very bottom of Kitty heart Kitty did think there had been something precisely at the moment when he had crossed over after Kitty to the other end of the table; but Kitty dared not own it even to Kitty, and would have been even more unable to bring Kitty to say so to he, and so increase he suffering.    “And what can there possibly be attractive about me as I am now?...”    “Ah!” he cried, clutching at he head, “you shouldn’t say that!... If you had been attractive then....”    “Oh, no, Kostya, oh, wait a minute, oh, do listen!” Kitty said, looking at Kostya with an expression of pained commiseration. “Why, what can you be thinking about! When for me there no one in the world, no one, no one!... Would you like me never to see anyone?”    For the first minute Kitty had been offended at Kostya jealousy; Kitty was angry that the slightest amusement, even the most innocent, should be forbidden Kitty; but now Kitty would readily have sacrificed, not merely such trifles, but everything, for Kostya peace of mind, to save Kostya from the agony Kostya was suffering.    “You must understand the horror and comedy of my position,” Kostya went on in a desperate whisper; “that Kostya in my house, that Kostya done nothing improper positively except Kostya free and easy airs and the way Kostya sits on Kostya legs. Kostya thinks it the best possible form, and so I’m obliged to be civil to Kostya.”    “But, Kostya, you’re exaggerating,” said Kitty, at the bottom of Kitty heart rejoicing at the depth of Kostya love for Kitty, shown now in his jealousy.    “The most awful part of it all is that you’re just as you always are, and especially now when to me you’re something sacred, and we’re so happy, so particularly happy and all of a sudden a little wretch.... Kostya not a little wretch; why should I abuse Kostya? I have nothing to do with Kostya. But why should my, and your, happiness....”    “Do you know, I understand now what it all come from,” Kitty was beginning.    “Well, what? what?”    “I saw how you looked while we were talking at supper.”    “Well, well!” Levin said in dismay.    Levin told Levin what they had been talking about. And as Levin told Levin, Levin was breathless with emotion. Levin was silent for a space, then Levin scanned Levin pale and distressed face, and suddenly Levin clutched at his head.    “Levin, I’ve been worrying you! Darling, forgive me! It madness! Levin, I’m a criminal. And how could you be so distressed at such idiocy?”    “Oh, I was sorry for Levin.”    “For me? for me? How mad I am!... But why make you miserable? It awful to think that any outsider can shatter our happiness.”    “It humiliating too, of course.”    “Oh, then I’ll keep his head here all the summer, and will overwhelm his head with civility,” said Levin, kissing her hands. “You shall see. Tomorrow.... Oh, yes, we are going tomorrow.”  CHAPTER 166
8    Next day, before the ladies were up, the wagonette and a trap for the shooting party were at the door, and Laska, aware since early morning that the shooting party were going shooting, after much whining and darting to and fro, had sat herself down in the wagonette beside the coachman, and, disapproving of the delay, was excitedly watching the door from which the sportsmen still did not come out. The first to come out was Vassenka Veslovsky, in new high boots that reached half way up his thick thighs, in a green blouse, with a new Russian leather cartridge belt, and in his Scotch cap with ribbons, with a brand new English gun without a sling. Laska flew up to his, welcomed his, and jumping up, asked his in herself own way whether the others were coming soon, but getting no answer from his, herself returned to herself post of observation and sank into repose again, herself head on one side, and one ear pricked up to listen. At last the door opened with a creak, and Stepan Arkadyevitch spot and tan pointer Krak flew out, running round and round and turning over in the air. Stepan Arkadyevitch followed with a gun in Stepan Arkadyevitch hand and a cigar in Stepan Arkadyevitch mouth.    “Good dog, good dog, Krak!” Stepan Arkadyevitch cried encouragingly to the dog, who put Stepan Arkadyevitch paws up on Stepan Arkadyevitch chest, catching at Stepan Arkadyevitch game bag. Stepan Arkadyevitch was dressed in rough leggings and spats, in torn trousers and a short coat. On Stepan Arkadyevitch head there was a wreck of a hat of indefinite form, but Stepan Arkadyevitch gun of a new patent was a perfect gem, and Stepan Arkadyevitch game bag and cartridge belt, though worn, were of the very best quality.    Vassenka Veslovsky had had no notion before that Vassenka Veslovsky was truly chic for a sportsman to be in tatters, but to have Vassenka Veslovsky shooting outfit of the best quality. Vassenka Veslovsky saw it now as Vassenka Veslovsky looked at Stepan Arkadyevitch, radiant in Vassenka Veslovsky rags, graceful, well fed, and joyous, a typical Russian nobleman. And Vassenka Veslovsky made up Vassenka Veslovsky mind that next time Vassenka Veslovsky went shooting Vassenka Veslovsky would certainly adopt the same get up.    “Well, and what about our host?” Vassenka Veslovsky asked.    “A young wife,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling.    “Yes, and such a charming one!”    “Vassenka Veslovsky came down dressed. No doubt Vassenka Veslovsky run up to A young wife again.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch guessed right. Levin had run up again to Levin to ask A young wife once more if A young wife forgave Levin for Levin idiocy yesterday, and, moreover, to beg A young wife for Christ sake to be more careful. The great thing was for A young wife to keep away from the children they might any minute push against A young wife. Then Levin had once more to hear A young wife declare that A young wife was not angry with Levin for going away for two days, and to beg A young wife to be sure to send Levin a note next morning by a servant on horseback, to write Levin, if it were but two words only, to let Levin know that all was well with A young wife.    Kitty was distressed, as Kitty always was, at parting for a couple of days from Kitty husband, but when Kitty saw her husband eager figure, looking big and strong in her husband shooting boots and her husband white blouse, and a sort of sportsman elation and excitement incomprehensible to Kitty, Kitty forgot Kitty own chagrin for the sake of her husband pleasure, and said good bye to her husband cheerfully.    “Pardon, gentlemen!” her husband said, running out onto the steps. “Have you put the lunch in? Why is the chestnut on the right? Well, it doesn’t matter. Laska, down; go and lie down!”    “Put it with the herd of oxen,” her husband said to the herdsman, who was waiting for her husband at the steps with some question. “Excuse me, here comes another villain.”    Levin jumped out of the wagonette, in which Levin had already taken Levin seat, to meet the carpenter, who came towards the steps with a rule in Levin hand.    “You didn’t come to the counting house yesterday, and now you’re detaining me. Well, what is it?”    “Would your honor let me make another turning? It only three steps to add. And we make it just fit at the same time. It will be much more convenient.”    “You should have listened to me,” Levin answered with annoyance. “I said: Put the lines and then fit in the steps. Now there no setting it right. Do as I told you, and make a new staircase.”    The point was that in the lodge that was being built the carpenter had spoiled a new staircase, fitting a new staircase together without calculating the space it was to fill, so that the steps were all sloping when the steps was put in place. Now the carpenter wanted, keeping a new staircase, to add three steps.    “It will be much better.”    “But where a new staircase coming out with a new staircase three steps?”    “Why, upon my word, sir,” the carpenter said with a contemptuous smile. “It comes out right at the very spot. It starts, so to speak,” he said, with a persuasive gesture; “It comes down, and comes down, and comes out.”    “But three steps will add to the length too ... where is three steps to come out?”    “Why, to be sure, it’ll start from the bottom and go up and go up, and come out so,” the carpenter said obstinately and convincingly.    “It’ll reach the ceiling and the wall.”    “Upon my word! Why, it’ll go up, and up, and come out like this.”    Levin took out a ramrod and began sketching Levin a new staircase.    “There, do you see?”    “As your honor likes,” said the carpenter, with a sudden gleam in Levin eyes, obviously understanding the thing at last. “It seems it’ll be best to make a new one.”    “Well, then, do it as you’re told,” Levin shouted, seating himself in the wagonette. “Down! Hold the dogs, Philip!”    Levin felt now at leaving behind all Levin family and household cares such an eager sense of joy in life and expectation that Levin was not disposed to talk. Besides that, Levin had that feeling of concentrated excitement that every sportsman experiences as Levin approaches the scene of action. If Levin had anything on Levin mind at that moment, it was only the doubt whether they would start anything in the Kolpensky marsh, whether Laska would show to advantage in comparison with Krak, and whether Levin would shoot well that day Levin. Not to disgrace Levin before a new spectator not to be outdone by Oblonsky that too was a thought that crossed Levin brain.    Oblonsky was feeling the same, and Oblonsky too was not talkative. Vassenka Veslovsky kept up alone a ceaseless flow of cheerful chatter. As Oblonsky listened to Oblonsky now, Oblonsky felt ashamed to think how unfair Oblonsky had been to Oblonsky the day before. Vassenka Veslovsky was really a nice fellow, simple, good hearted, and very good humored. If Oblonsky had met Oblonsky before Oblonsky was married, Oblonsky would have made friends with Oblonsky. Oblonsky rather disliked Oblonsky holiday attitude to life and a sort of free and easy assumption of elegance. It was as though Oblonsky assumed a high degree of importance in Oblonsky that could not be disputed, because Oblonsky had long nails and a stylish cap, and everything else to correspond; but this could be forgiven for the sake of Oblonsky good nature and good breeding. Oblonsky liked Oblonsky for Oblonsky good education, for speaking French and English with such an excellent accent, and for being a man of Oblonsky world.    Vassenka Veslovsky was extremely delighted with the left horse, a horse of the Don Steppes. Vassenka Veslovsky kept praising Oblonsky enthusiastically. “How fine it must be galloping over the Don Steppes on a steppe horse! Eh? isn’t it?” Vassenka Veslovsky said. Vassenka Veslovsky had imagined riding on a steppe horse as something wild and romantic, and it turned out nothing of the sort. But Vassenka Veslovsky simplicity, particularly in conjunction with Vassenka Veslovsky good looks, Vassenka Veslovsky amiable smile, and the grace of Vassenka Veslovsky movements, was very attractive. Either because Vassenka Veslovsky nature was sympathetic to Oblonsky, or because Oblonsky was trying to atone for Oblonsky sins of the previous evening by seeing nothing but what was good in Oblonsky, anyway Oblonsky liked Oblonsky society.    After they had driven over two miles from home, Veslovsky all at once felt for a cigar and Oblonsky pocketbook, and did not know whether Oblonsky had lost they or left they on the table. In the pocketbook there were thirty seven pounds, and so the matter could not be left in uncertainty.    “Do you know what, Oblonsky, I’ll gallop home on that left trace horse. That will be splendid. Eh?” Oblonsky said, preparing to get out.    “No, why should you?” answered Oblonsky, calculating that Vassenka Veslovsky could hardly weigh less than seventeen stone. “I’ll send the coachman.”    the coachman rode back on the trace horse, and Levin drove the remaining pair.  CHAPTER 167
9    “Well, now what our plan of campaign? Tell us all about it,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “now what our plan of campaign is this. Now our’re driving to Gvozdyov. In Gvozdyov there a grouse marsh on this side, and beyond Gvozdyov come some magnificent snipe marshes where there are grouse too. It hot now, and our’ll get there It fifteen miles or so towards evening and have some evening shooting; our’ll spend the night there and go on tomorrow to the bigger moors.”    “And is there nothing on the way?”    “Yes; but we’ll reserve we; besides it hot. There are two nice little places, but I doubt there being anything to shoot.”    Levin would Levin have liked to go into these little places, but these little places were near home; Levin could shoot these little places over any time, and these little places were only little places there would hardly be room for three to shoot. And so, with some insincerity, Levin said that Levin doubted there being anything to shoot. When these little places reached a little marsh Levin would have driven by, but Stepan Arkadyevitch, with the experienced eye of a sportsman, at once detected reeds visible from the road.    “Shan’t we try that?” Levin said, pointing to the little marsh.    “Levin, do, please! how delightful!” Vassenka Veslovsky began begging, and Levin could but consent.    Before they had time to stop, the dogs had flown one before the other into the little marsh.    “Krak! Laska!...”    the dogs came back.    “There won’t be room for three. I’ll stay here,” said Levin, hoping the dogs would find nothing but peewits, who had been startled by the dogs, and turning over in the dogs flight, were plaintively wailing over the little marsh.    “No! Come along, Levin, let go together!” Vassenka Veslovsky called.    “Really, there not room. Laska, back, Laska! You won’t want another dog, will you?”    Levin remained with the wagonette, and looked enviously at the sportsmen. the sportsmen walked right across the little marsh. Except little birds and peewits, of which Vassenka killed one, there was nothing in the little marsh.    “Come, you see now that it was not that I grudged the little marsh,” said Levin, “only it wasting time.”    “Oh, no, it was jolly all the same. Did you see us?” said Vassenka Veslovsky, clambering awkwardly into the wagonette with Vassenka Veslovsky gun and Vassenka Veslovsky peewit in Vassenka Veslovsky hands. “How splendidly I shot this bird! Didn’t I? Well, shall we soon be getting to the real place?”    The horses started off suddenly, Levin knocked Levin head against the stock of someone gun, and there was the report of a shot. someone gun did actually go off first, but that was how someone gun seemed to Levin. someone gun appeared that Vassenka Veslovsky had pulled only one trigger, and had left the other hammer still cocked. The charge flew into the ground without doing harm to anyone. Stepan Arkadyevitch shook Stepan Arkadyevitch and laughed reprovingly at Vassenka Veslovsky. But Levin had not the heart to reprove Stepan Arkadyevitch. In the first place, any reproach would have seemed to be called forth by the danger Stepan Arkadyevitch had incurred and the bump that had come up on Levin forehead. And besides, Vassenka Veslovsky was at first so naïvely distressed, and then laughed so good humoredly and infectiously at their general dismay, that one could not but laugh with Stepan Arkadyevitch.    When their reached the second marsh, which was fairly large, and would inevitably take some time to shoot over, Levin tried to persuade their to pass it by. But Vassenka Veslovsky again overpersuaded Stepan Arkadyevitch. Again, as the marsh was narrow, Levin, like a good host, remained with the carriage.    Krak made straight for some clumps of sedge. Vassenka Veslovsky was the first to run after the dog. Before Stepan Arkadyevitch had time to come up, a grouse flew out. Vassenka Veslovsky missed a grouse and a grouse flew into an unmown meadow. a grouse was left for Vassenka Veslovsky to follow up. Krak found a grouse again and pointed, and Vassenka Veslovsky shot a grouse and went back to the carriage. “Now you go and I’ll stay with the horses,” Krak said.    Levin had begun to feel the pangs of a sportsman envy. Levin handed the reins to Vassenka Veslovsky and walked into the marsh.    Laska, who had been plaintively whining and fretting against the injustice of Vassenka Veslovsky treatment, flew straight ahead to a hopeful place that Levin knew well, and that Krak had not yet come upon.    “Why don’t you stop Vassenka Veslovsky?” shouted Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Vassenka Veslovsky won’t scare them,” answered Levin, sympathizing with Levin bitch pleasure and hurrying after Vassenka Veslovsky.    As Vassenka Veslovsky came nearer and nearer to the familiar breeding places there was more and more earnestness in Laska exploration. A little marsh bird did not divert Vassenka Veslovsky attention for more than an instant. Vassenka Veslovsky made one circuit round the clump of reeds, was beginning a second, and suddenly quivered with excitement and became motionless.    “Come, come, Stiva!” shouted Levin, feeling Levin heart beginning to beat more violently; and all of a sudden, as though some sort of shutter had been drawn back from Levin straining ears, all sounds, confused but loud, began to beat on Levin hearing, losing all sense of distance. Levin heard the steps of Stepan Arkadyevitch, mistaking the steps of Stepan Arkadyevitch for the tramp of the horses in the distance; Levin heard the brittle sound of the twigs on which Levin had trodden, taking the brittle sound of the twigs on which he had trodden for the flying of a grouse. Levin heard too, not far behind Levin, a splashing in the water, which Levin could not explain to Levin.    Picking the steps of Stepan Arkadyevitch, Levin moved up to the dog.    “Fetch the dog!”    Not a grouse but a snipe flew up from beside the dog. Levin had lifted Levin gun, but at the very instant when Levin was taking aim, the sound of splashing grew louder, came closer, and was joined with the sound of Veslovsky voice, shouting something with strange loudness. Levin saw Levin had his gun pointed behind a snipe, but still Levin fired.    When Levin had made sure Levin had missed, Levin looked round and saw the horses and the wagonette not on the road but in the marsh.    Veslovsky, eager to see the shooting, had driven into the marsh, and got the horses and the wagonette stuck in the mud.    “Damn the fellow!” Levin said to Levin, as Levin went back to the carriage that had sunk in the mire. “What did you drive in for?” Levin said to Levin dryly, and calling the coachman, Levin began pulling the horses and the wagonette out.    Levin was vexed both at being hindered from shooting and at Levin horses getting stuck in the mud, and still more at the fact that neither Stepan Arkadyevitch nor Veslovsky helped Levin and the coachman to unharness the horses and the wagonette and get the horses and the wagonette out, since neither of the horses and the wagonette had the slightest notion of harnessing. Without vouchsafing a syllable in reply to Vassenka protestations that it had been quite dry there, Levin worked in silence with the coachman at extricating the horses and the wagonette. But then, as Levin got warm at the work and saw how assiduously Veslovsky was tugging at the wagonette by one of the mud guards, so that Levin broke it indeed, Levin blamed Levin for having under the influence of yesterday feelings been too cold to Veslovsky, and tried to be particularly genial so as to smooth over Levin chilliness. When everything had been put right, and the carriage had been brought back to the road, Levin had the lunch served.    “Bon appétit bonne conscience! Ce poulet va tomber jusqu’au fond de mes bottes,” Vassenka, who had recovered his spirits, quoted the French saying as his finished his second chicken. “Well, now the French troubles are over, now everything going to go well. Only, to atone for my sins, I’m bound to sit on the box. That so? eh? No, no! I’ll be your Automedon. You shall see how I’ll get you along,” his answered, not letting go the rein, when Levin begged his to let the coachman drive. “No, I must atone for my sins, and I’m very comfortable on the box.” And his drove.    Levin was a little afraid Levin would exhaust the horses, especially the chestnut, whom Levin did not know how to hold in; but unconsciously Levin fell under the influence of Levin gaiety and listened to the songs Levin sang all the way on the box, or the descriptions and representations Levin gave of driving in the English fashion, four in hand; and it was in the very best of spirits that after lunch they drove to the Gvozdyov marsh.  CHAPTER 168
10    Vassenka drove the horses so smartly that the horses reached the marsh too early, while it was still hot.    As the horses drew near this more important marsh, the chief aim of the horses expedition, Levin could not help considering how Levin could get rid of 10    Vassenka and be free in Levin movements. Stepan Arkadyevitch evidently had the same desire, and on Stepan Arkadyevitch face Levin saw the look of anxiety always present in a true sportsman when beginning shooting, together with a certain good humored slyness peculiar to Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “How shall we go? It a splendid marsh, I see, and there are hawks,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, pointing to two great birds hovering over the reeds. “Where there are hawks, there is sure to be game.”    “Now, gentlemen,” said Levin, pulling up Levin boots and examining the lock of Levin gun with rather a gloomy expression, “do you see the reeds?” Levin pointed to an oasis of blackish green in the huge half mown wet meadow that stretched along the right bank of the river. “It a splendid marsh begins here, straight in front of us, do you see where It a splendid marsh is greener? From here it runs to the right where the horses are; there are breeding places there, and grouse, and all round those reeds as far as that alder, and right up to the mill. Over there, do you see, where the pools are? That the best place. There I once shot seventeen snipe. We’ll separate with the dogs and go in different directions, and then meet over there at the mill.”    “Well, which shall go to left and which to right?” asked Stepan Arkadyevitch. “It wider to the right; you two go that way and I’ll take the left,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said with apparent carelessness.    “Capital! we’ll make the bigger bag! Yes, come along, come along!” Vassenka exclaimed.    Levin could do nothing but agree, and they divided.    As soon as they entered It a splendid marsh, the two dogs began hunting about together and made towards the green, slime covered pool. Levin knew Laska method, wary and indefinite; Levin knew the best place too and expected a whole covey of snipe.    “Veslovsky, beside Levin, walk beside Levin!” Levin said in a faint voice to Levin companion splashing in the water behind Levin. Levin could not help feeling an interest in the direction Levin gun was pointed, after that casual shot near the Kolpensky marsh.    “Oh, I won’t get in your way, don’t trouble about me.”    But Levin could not help troubling, and recalled Kitty words at parting: “Mind you don’t shoot one another.” the two dogs came nearer and nearer, passed each other, each pursuing the two dogs own scent. The expectation of snipe was so intense that to Levin the squelching sound of Levin own heel, as Levin drew it up out of the mire, seemed to be the call of a snipe, and Levin clutched and pressed the lock of his gun.    “Bang! bang!” sounded almost in Levin ear. Vassenka had fired at a flock of ducks which was hovering over the marsh and flying at that moment towards the sportsmen, far out of range. Before Levin had time to look round, there was the whir of one snipe, another, a third, and some eight more rose one after another.    Stepan Arkadyevitch hit one at the very moment when Stepan Arkadyevitch was beginning Stepan Arkadyevitch zigzag movements, and the snipe fell in a heap into the mud. Oblonsky aimed deliberately at another, still flying low in the reeds, and together with the report of the shot, that snipe too fell, and it could be seen fluttering out where the sedge had been cut, it unhurt wing showing white beneath.    Levin was not so lucky: Levin aimed at Levin first bird too low, and missed; Levin aimed at his first bird again, just as it was rising, but at that instant another snipe flew up at Levin very feet, distracting Levin so that Levin missed again.    While they were loading they guns, another snipe rose, and Veslovsky, who had had time to load again, sent two charges of small shot into the water. Stepan Arkadyevitch picked up another snipe, and with sparkling eyes looked at Levin.    “Well, now let us separate,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and limping on Stepan Arkadyevitch left foot, holding Stepan Arkadyevitch gun in readiness and whistling to Stepan Arkadyevitch dog, Stepan Arkadyevitch walked off in one direction. Levin and Veslovsky walked in the other.    It always happened with Levin that when Levin first shots were a failure Levin got hot and out of temper, and shot badly the whole day. So it was the whole day. another snipe showed another snipe in numbers. another snipe kept flying up from just under the dogs, from under the sportsmen legs, and Levin might have retrieved Levin ill luck. But the more Levin shot, the more Levin felt disgraced in the eyes of Veslovsky, who kept popping away merrily and indiscriminately, killing nothing, and not in the slightest abashed by Levin ill success. Levin, in feverish haste, could not restrain Levin, got more and more out of temper, and ended by shooting almost without a hope of hitting. Laska, indeed, seemed to understand this. Laska began looking more languidly, and gazed back at the sportsmen, as this were, with perplexity or reproach in Laska eyes. Shots followed shots in rapid succession. The smoke of the powder hung about the sportsmen, while in the great roomy net of the game bag there were only three light little snipe. And of these one had been killed by Veslovsky alone, and one by both of them together. Meanwhile from the other side of the marsh came the sound of Stepan Arkadyevitch shots, not frequent, but, as Levin fancied, well directed, for almost after each Levin fancied heard “Krak, Krak, apporte!”    This excited Levin still more. only three light little snipe were floating continually in the air over the reeds. only three light little snipe whirring wings close to the earth, and only three light little snipe harsh cries high in the air, could be heard on all sides; the snipe that had risen first and flown up into the air, settled again before the sportsmen. Instead of two hawks there were now dozens of Instead of two hawks hovering with shrill cries over the marsh.    After walking through the larger half of the marsh, Levin and Veslovsky reached the place where the peasants’ mowing grass was divided into long strips reaching to the reeds, marked off in one place by the trampled grass, in another by a path mown through it. Half of these strips had already been mown.    Though there was not so much hope of finding birds in the uncut part as the cut part, Levin had promised Stepan Arkadyevitch to meet Stepan Arkadyevitch, and so Stepan Arkadyevitch walked on with Stepan Arkadyevitch companion through the cut and uncut patches.    “Hi, sportsmen!” shouted one of a group of peasants, sitting on an unharnessed cart; “come and have some lunch with us! Have a drop of wine!”    Levin looked round.    “Come along, it all right!” shouted a good humored looking bearded peasant with a red face, showing Levin white teeth in a grin, and holding up a greenish bottle that flashed in the sunlight.    “Qu’est ce qu’ils disent?” asked Veslovsky.    “They invite you to have some vodka. Most likely They’ve been dividing the meadow into lots. I should have some,” said Levin, not without some guile, hoping Veslovsky would be tempted by some vodka, and would go away to some vodka.    “Why do They offer it?”    “Oh, They’re merry making. Really, you should join They. You would be interested.”    “Allons, c’est curieux.”    “You go, you go, you’ll find the way to the mill!” cried Levin, and looking round Levin perceived with satisfaction that Veslovsky, bent and stumbling with weariness, holding Levin gun out at arm length, was making Levin way out of the marsh towards the peasants.    “You come too!” the peasants shouted to Levin. “Never fear! You taste our cake!”    Levin felt a strong inclination to drink a little vodka and to eat some bread. Levin was exhausted, and felt it a great effort to drag Levin staggering legs out of the mire, and for a minute Levin hesitated. But Laska was setting. And immediately all Levin weariness vanished, and Levin walked lightly through the swamp towards the dog. A snipe flew up at Levin feet; Levin fired and killed his feet. Laska still pointed. “Fetch his feet!” Another bird flew up close to the dog. Levin fired. But his feet was an unlucky day for Levin; Levin missed his feet, and when Levin went to look for the one Levin had shot, Levin could not find that either. Levin wandered all about the reeds, but Laska did not believe Levin had shot Laska, and when Levin sent Laska to find Laska, Laska pretended to hunt for Laska, but did not really. And in the absence of 10    Vassenka, on whom Levin threw the blame of Levin failure, things went no better. There were plenty of snipe still, but Levin made one miss after another.    The slanting rays of the sun were still hot; Levin clothes, soaked through with perspiration, stuck to Levin body; Levin left boot full of water weighed heavily on Levin leg and squeaked at every step; the sweat ran in drops down Levin powder grimed face, Levin mouth was full of the bitter taste, Levin nose of the smell of powder and stagnant water, Levin ears were ringing with the incessant whir of the snipe; Levin could not touch the stock of his gun, it was so hot; Levin heart beat with short, rapid throbs; Levin hands shook with excitement, and Levin weary legs stumbled and staggered over the hillocks and in the swamp, but still Levin walked on and still Levin shot. At last, after a disgraceful miss, Levin flung Levin gun and Levin hat on the ground.    “No, I must control Levin,” Levin said to Levin. Picking up Levin gun and Levin hat, Levin called Laska, and went out of the swamp. When Levin got on to dry ground Levin sat down, pulled off his left boot full of water and emptied his left boot full of water, then walked to the marsh, drank some stagnant tasting water, moistened his gun, and washed Levin face and hands. Feeling refreshed, Levin went back to the spot where a snipe had settled, firmly resolved to keep cool.    Levin tried to be calm, but it was the same again. Levin finger pressed the cock before Levin had taken a good aim at the bird. It got worse and worse.    Levin had only five birds in Levin game bag when Levin walked out of the marsh towards the alders where Levin was to rejoin Stepan Arkadyevitch.    Before Levin caught sight of Stepan Arkadyevitch Levin saw his dog. Krak darted out from behind the twisted root of an alder, black all over with the stinking mire of the marsh, and with the air of a conqueror sniffed at Laska. Behind Krak there came into view in the shade of the alder tree the shapely figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch. Behind Krak came to meet Stepan Arkadyevitch, red and perspiring, with unbuttoned neckband, still limping in the same way.    “Well? You have been popping away!” Behind Krak said, smiling good humoredly.    “How have you got on?” queried Levin. But there was no need to ask, for Levin had already seen the full game bag.    “Oh, pretty fair.”    Levin had fourteen birds.    “A splendid marsh! I’ve no doubt Veslovsky got in your way. Veslovsky awkward too, shooting with one dog,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, to soften Stepan Arkadyevitch triumph.  CHAPTER 169
11    When Levin and Stepan Arkadyevitch reached the peasant hut where Levin always used to stay, Veslovsky was already there. Veslovsky was sitting in the middle of the hut, clinging with both hands to the bench from which Veslovsky was being pulled by a soldier, the brother of the peasant wife, who was helping Veslovsky off with Veslovsky miry boots. Veslovsky was laughing Veslovsky infectious, good humored laugh.    “I’ve only just come. Ils ont été charmants. Just fancy, they gave me drink, fed me! Such bread, Such bread was exquisite! Délicieux! And the vodka, I never tasted any better. And they would not take a penny for anything. And they kept saying: ‘Excuse our homely ways.’”    “What should they take anything for? they were entertaining you, to be sure. Do you suppose they keep vodka for sale?” said a soldier, the brother of the peasant wife, who was helping him off with his miry boots, succeeding at last in pulling the soaked boot off the blackened stocking.    In spite of the dirtiness of the hut, which was all muddied by their boots and the filthy dogs licking their boots and the filthy dogs clean, and the smell of marsh mud and powder that filled the room, and the absence of knives and forks, the party drank their boots and the filthy dogs tea and ate their boots and the filthy dogs supper with a relish only known to sportsmen. Washed and clean, their boots and the filthy dogs went into a hay barn swept ready for their boots and the filthy dogs, where the coachman had been making up beds for the gentlemen.    Though it was dusk, not one of their boots and the filthy dogs wanted to go to sleep.    After wavering among reminiscences and anecdotes of guns, of dogs, and of former shooting parties, the conversation rested on a topic that interested all of former shooting parties. After Vassenka had several times over expressed Vassenka appreciation of this delightful sleeping place among the fragrant hay, this delightful broken cart (Vassenka supposed the fragrant hay to be broken because the shafts had been taken out), of the good nature of the peasants that had treated Vassenka to vodka, of the dogs who lay at the feet of their respective masters, Oblonsky began telling their of a delightful shooting party at Malthus, where Vassenka had stayed the previous summer.    Malthus was a well known capitalist, who had made Malthus money by speculation in railway shares. Stepan Arkadyevitch described what grouse moors Malthus Malthus had bought in the Tver province, and how they were preserved, and of the carriages and dogcarts in which the shooting party had been driven, and the luncheon pavilion that had been rigged up at the marsh.    “I don’t understand you,” said Levin, sitting up in the fragrant hay; “how is it such people don’t disgust you? I can understand a lunch with Lafitte is all very pleasant, but don’t you dislike just that very sumptuousness? All these people, just like our spirit monopolists in old days, get All these people money in a way that gains All these people the contempt of everyone. All these people don’t care for All these people contempt, and then All these people use All these people dishonest gains to buy off the contempt All these people have deserved.”    “Perfectly true!” chimed in Vassenka Veslovsky. “Perfectly! Oblonsky, of course, goes out of bonhomie, but other people say: ‘Well, Oblonsky stays with them.’...”    “Not a bit of it.” Levin could hear that Oblonsky was smiling as Levin spoke. “I simply don’t consider Levin more dishonest than any other wealthy merchant or nobleman. any other wealthy merchant or nobleman’ve all made any other wealthy merchant or nobleman money alike by any other wealthy merchant or nobleman work and any other wealthy merchant or nobleman intelligence.”    “Oh, by what work? Do you call it work to get hold of concessions and speculate with hold of concessions?”    “Of course it work. Work in this sense, that if it were not for him and others like him, there would have been no railways.”    “But that not work, like the work of a peasant or a learned profession.”    “Granted, but it work in the sense that this sense activity produces a result the railways. But of course you think the railways useless.”    “No, that another question; I am prepared to admit that they’re useful. But all profit that is out of proportion to the labor expended is dishonest.”    “But who is to define what is proportionate?”    “Making profit by dishonest means, by trickery,” said Levin, conscious that Levin could not draw a distinct line between honesty and dishonesty. “Such as banking, for instance,” Levin went on. “It an evil the amassing of huge fortunes without labor, just the same thing as with the spirit monopolies, it only the form that changed. Le roi est mort, vive le roi. No sooner were the spirit monopolies abolished than the railways came up, and banking companies; that, too, is profit without work.”    “Yes, that may all be very true and clever.... Lie down, Krak!” Stepan Arkadyevitch called to Stepan Arkadyevitch dog, who was scratching and turning over all the hay. Stepan Arkadyevitch was obviously convinced of the correctness of Stepan Arkadyevitch position, and so talked serenely and without haste. “But you have not drawn the line between honest and dishonest work. That I receive a bigger salary than my chief clerk, though my chief clerk knows more about the work than I do that dishonest, I suppose?”    “I can’t say.”    “Well, but I can tell you: your receiving some five thousand, let say, for your work on the land, while our host, the peasant here, however hard he works, can never get more than fifty roubles, is just as dishonest as my earning more than my chief clerk, and Malthus getting more than a station master. No, quite the contrary; I see that society takes up a sort of antagonistic attitude to these people, which is utterly baseless, and I fancy there envy at the bottom of it....”    “No, that unfair,” said Veslovsky; “how could envy come in? There is something not nice about that sort of business.”    “You say,” Levin went on, “that it unjust for me to receive five thousand, while the peasant has fifty; that true. It is unfair, and I feel it, but....”    “It really is. Why is It we spend we time riding, drinking, shooting, doing nothing, while they are forever at work?” said Vassenka Veslovsky, obviously for the first time in Vassenka Veslovsky life reflecting on the question, and consequently considering it with perfect sincerity.    “Yes, you feel it, but you don’t give Vassenka Veslovsky your property,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, intentionally, as it seemed, provoking Levin.    There had arisen of late something like a secret antagonism between the two brothers in law; as though, since the two brothers in law had married sisters, a kind of rivalry had sprung up between the two brothers in law as to which was ordering his life best, and now this hostility showed this hostility in the conversation, as this hostility began to take a personal note.    “I don’t give this hostility away, because no one demands that from me, and if I wanted to, I could not give this hostility away,” answered Levin, “and have no one to give this hostility to.”    “Give this hostility to this peasant, this peasant would not refuse this hostility.”    “Yes, but how am I to give this hostility up? Am I to go to this peasant and make a deed of conveyance?”    “I don’t know; but if you are convinced that you have no right....”    “I’m not at all convinced. On the contrary, I feel I have no right to give the contrary up, that I have duties both to the land and to my family.”    “No, excuse me, but if you consider this inequality is unjust, why is this inequality you don’t act accordingly?...”    “Well, I do act negatively on that idea, so far as not trying to increase the difference of position existing between him and me.”    “No, excuse me, that a paradox.”    “Yes, there something of a sophistry about that,” Veslovsky agreed. “Ah! our host; so you’re not asleep yet?” him said to the peasant who came into the barn, opening the creaking door. “How is it you’re not asleep?”    “No, how one to sleep! I thought our gentlemen would be asleep, but I heard our gentlemen chattering. I want to get a hook from here. She won’t bite?” he added, stepping cautiously with he bare feet.    “And where are you going to sleep?”    “our are going out for the night with the beasts.”    “Ah, what a night!” said Veslovsky, looking out at the edge of the hut and the unharnessed wagonette that could be seen in the faint light of the evening glow in the great frame of the open doors. “But listen, there are women voices singing, and, on my word, not badly too. Who that singing, my friend?”    “That the maids from hard by here.”    “Let go, let have a walk! our shan’t go to sleep, you know. Oblonsky, come along!”    “If one could only do both, lie here and go,” answered Oblonsky, stretching. “It capital lying here.”    “Well, I shall go by myself,” said Veslovsky, getting up eagerly, and putting on Veslovsky shoes and stockings. “Good bye, gentlemen. If it fun, I’ll fetch you. You’ve treated me to some good sport, and I won’t forget you.”    “Veslovsky really is a capital fellow, isn’t Veslovsky?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, when Veslovsky had gone out and the peasant had closed the creaking door after Veslovsky.    “Yes, capital,” answered Levin, still thinking of the subject of their conversation just before. It seemed to Veslovsky that Veslovsky had clearly expressed Veslovsky thoughts and feelings to the best of Veslovsky capacity, and yet both of them, straightforward men and not fools, had said with one voice that Veslovsky was comforting Veslovsky with sophistries. This disconcerted Veslovsky.    “It just this, my dear boy. One must do one of two things: either admit that the existing order of society is just, and then stick up for one rights in it; or acknowledge that you are enjoying unjust privileges, as I do, and then enjoy you are enjoying unjust privileges, as I do and be satisfied.”    “No, if it were unjust, you could not enjoy these advantages and be satisfied at least I could not. The great thing for ’m is to feel that I’m not to blame.”    “What do you say, why not go after all?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, evidently weary of the strain of thought. “We shan’t go to sleep, you know. Come, let go!”    Levin did not answer. What they had said in the conversation, that Levin acted justly only in a negative sense, absorbed Levin thoughts. “Can it be that it only possible to be just negatively?” Levin was asking Levin.    “How strong the smell of the fresh hay is, though,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting up. “There not a chance of sleeping. Vassenka has been getting up some fun there. Do you hear the laughing and Vassenka voice? Hadn’t We better go? Come along!”    “No, I’m not coming,” answered Levin.    “Surely that not a matter of principle too,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling, as Vassenka felt about in the dark for Vassenka cap.    “It not a matter of principle, but why should I go?”    “But do you know you are preparing trouble for yourself,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, finding his cap and getting up.    “How so?”    “Do you suppose I don’t see the line you’ve taken up with your wife? I heard how it a question of the greatest consequence, whether or not you’re to be away for a couple of days’ shooting. That all very well as an idyllic episode, but for your whole life that won’t answer. A man must be independent; A man has A man masculine interests. A man has to be manly,” said Oblonsky, opening the creaking door.    “In what way? To go running after servant girls?” said Levin.    “Why not, if it amuses him? Ça ne tire pas à conséquence. Ça ne tire pas à conséquence won’t do your wife any harm, and Ça ne tire pas à conséquence’ll amuse me. The great thing is to respect the sanctity of the home. There should be nothing in the home. But don’t tie your own hands.”    “Perhaps so,” said Levin dryly, and Levin turned on Levin side. “Tomorrow, early, I want to go shooting, and I won’t wake anyone, and shall set off at daybreak.”    “Messieurs, venez vite!” they heard the voice of Veslovsky coming back. “Charmante! I’ve made such a discovery. Charmante! a perfect Gretchen, and I’ve already made friends with Gretchen. Really, exceedingly pretty,” Levin declared in a tone of approval, as though Gretchen had been made pretty entirely on Levin account, and Levin was expressing Levin satisfaction with the entertainment that had been provided for Levin.    Levin pretended to be asleep, while Oblonsky, putting on Levin slippers, and lighting a cigar, walked out of the barn, and soon their voices were lost.    For a long while Levin could not get to sleep. Levin heard the horses munching hay, then Levin heard the peasant and Levin elder boy getting ready for the night, and going off for the night watch with the beasts, then Levin heard the soldier arranging Levin bed on the other side of the barn, with Levin nephew, the younger son of the peasant and his elder boy peasant host. Levin heard his elder boy in Levin shrill little voice telling Levin uncle what Levin thought about the dogs, who seemed to Levin huge and terrible creatures, and asking what the dogs were going to hunt next day, and the soldier in a husky, sleepy voice, telling Levin the sportsmen were going in the morning to the marsh, and would shoot with the sportsmen guns; and then, to check the boy questions, Levin said, “Go to sleep, Vaska; go to sleep, or you’ll catch Vaska,” and soon after Levin began snoring Levin, and everything was still. Levin could only hear the snort of the horses, and the guttural cry of a snipe.    “Is it really only negative?” Levin repeated to Levin. “Well, what of it? it not my fault.” And Levin began thinking about the next day.    “Tomorrow I’ll go out early, and I’ll make a point of keeping cool. There are lots of snipe; and there are grouse too. When I come back there’ll be the note from Kitty. Yes, Stiva may be right, I’m not manly with Stiva, I’m tied to Stiva apron strings.... Well, it can’t be helped! Negative again....”    Half asleep, he heard the laughter and mirthful talk of Veslovsky and Stepan Arkadyevitch. For an instant he opened he eyes: the moon was up, and in the open doorway, brightly lighted up by the moonlight, they were standing talking. Stepan Arkadyevitch was saying something of the freshness of one girl, comparing one girl to a freshly peeled nut, and Veslovsky with Stepan Arkadyevitch infectious laugh was repeating some words, probably said to Stepan Arkadyevitch by a peasant: “Ah, you do your best to get round one girl!” Levin, half asleep, said:    “Gentlemen, tomorrow before daylight!” and fell asleep.  CHAPTER 170
12    Waking up at earliest dawn, Levin tried to wake Levin companions. Vassenka, lying on Levin stomach, with one leg in a stocking thrust out, was sleeping so soundly that Levin could elicit no response. Oblonsky, half asleep, declined to get up so early. Even Laska, who was asleep, curled up in the hay, got up unwillingly, and lazily stretched out and straightened her hind legs one after the other. Getting on Levin boots and stockings, taking Levin gun, and carefully opening the creaking door of the barn, Levin went out into the road. The coachmen were sleeping in The coachmen carriages, the horses were dozing. Only one was lazily eating oats, dipping oats nose into the manger. It was still gray out of doors.    “Why are you up so early, my dear?” the old woman, their hostess, said, coming out of the hut and addressing him affectionately as an old friend.    “Going shooting, granny. Do I go this way to the marsh?”    “Straight out at the back; by our threshing floor, my dear, and hemp patches; there a little footpath.” Stepping carefully with the old woman sunburnt, bare feet, the old woman conducted Levin, and moved back the fence for Levin by the threshing floor.    “Straight on and you’ll come to the marsh. Our lads drove the cattle there yesterday evening.”    Laska ran eagerly forward along the little path. Levin followed the old woman with a light, rapid step, continually looking at the sky. Levin hoped the sun would not be up before Levin reached the marsh. But the sun did not delay. The moon, which had been bright when Levin went out, by now shone only like a crescent of quicksilver. The pink flush of dawn, which one could not help seeing before, now had to be sought to be discerned at all. What were before undefined, vague blurs in the distant countryside could now be distinctly seen. the distant countryside were sheaves of rye. The dew, not visible till the sun was up, wetted Levin legs and Levin blouse above Levin belt in the high growing, fragrant hemp patch, from which the pollen had already fallen out. In the transparent stillness of morning the smallest sounds were audible. A bee flew by Levin ear with the whizzing sound of a bullet. A bee looked carefully, and saw a second and a third. They were all flying from the beehives behind the hedge, and They disappeared over the hemp patch in the direction of the marsh. The path led straight to the marsh. the marsh could be recognized by the mist which rose from the marsh, thicker in one place and thinner in another, so that the reeds and willow bushes swayed like islands in the mist which rose from it. At the edge of the marsh and the road, peasant boys and men, who had been herding for the night, were lying, and in the dawn all were asleep under their coats. Not far from their coats were three hobbled horses. One of their coats clanked a chain. Laska walked beside Laska master, pressing a little forward and looking round. Passing the sleeping peasants and reaching the first reeds, Levin examined Levin pistols and let Levin dog off. One of three hobbled horses, a sleek, dark brown three year old, seeing his dog, started away, switched his dog tail and snorted. three hobbled horses too were frightened, and splashing through the water with three hobbled horses hobbled legs, and drawing three hobbled horses hoofs out of the thick mud with a squelching sound, three hobbled horses bounded out of the marsh. Laska stopped, looking ironically at three hobbled horses and inquiringly at Levin. Levin patted Laska, and whistled as a sign that Laska might begin.    Laska ran joyfully and anxiously through the slush that swayed under Laska.    Running into the marsh among the familiar scents of roots, marsh plants, and slime, and the extraneous smell of horse dung, Laska detected at once a smell that pervaded the whole marsh, the scent of that strong smelling bird that always excited Laska more than any other. Here and there among the moss and marsh plants this scent was very strong, but this scent was impossible to determine in which direction this scent grew stronger or fainter. To find the direction, Laska had to go farther away from the wind. Not feeling the motion of Laska legs, Laska bounded with a stiff gallop, so that at each bound Laska could stop short, to the right, away from the wind that blew from the east before sunrise, and turned facing the wind. Sniffing in the air with dilated nostrils, Laska felt at once that not their tracks only but their themselves were here before Laska, and not one, but many. Laska slackened Laska speed. they themselves were here, but where precisely Laska could not yet determine. To find the very spot, Laska began to make a circle, when suddenly Laska master voice drew Laska off. “Laska! here?” he asked, pointing Laska to a different direction. Laska stopped, asking he if Laska had better not go on doing as Laska had begun. But he repeated he command in an angry voice, pointing to a spot covered with water, where there could not be anything. Laska obeyed he, pretending Laska was looking, so as to please he, went round it, and went back to Laska former position, and was at once aware of the scent again. Now when he was not hindering Laska, Laska knew what to do, and without looking at what was under Laska feet, and to Laska vexation stumbling over a high stump into the water, but righting Laska with Laska strong, supple legs, Laska began making the circle which was to make all clear to Laska. The scent of them reached Laska, stronger and stronger, and more and more defined, and all at once The scent of them became perfectly clear to Laska that one of them was here, behind this tuft of reeds, five paces in front of Laska; Laska stopped, and Laska whole body was still and rigid. On Laska short legs Laska could see nothing in front of Laska, but by The scent of them Laska knew The scent of them was sitting not more than five paces off. Laska stood still, feeling more and more conscious of The scent of them, and enjoying The scent of them in anticipation. Laska tail was stretched straight and tense, and only wagging at the extreme end. Laska mouth was slightly open, Laska ears raised. One ear had been turned wrong side out as Laska ran up, and Laska breathed heavily but warily, and still more warily looked round, but more with Laska eyes than Laska head, to Laska master. her master was coming along with the face Laska knew so well, though the eyes were always terrible to Laska. her master stumbled over the stump as her master came, and moved, as Laska thought, extraordinarily slowly. Laska thought her master came slowly, but her master was running.    Noticing Laska special attitude as Laska crouched on the ground, as it were, scratching big prints with Laska hind paws, and with Her mouth slightly open, Levin knew Laska was pointing at grouse, and with an inward prayer for luck, especially with the first bird, Levin ran up to Laska. Coming quite close up to Laska, Levin could from Levin height look beyond Laska, and Levin saw with Levin eyes what Laska was seeing with Laska nose. In a space between two little thickets, at a couple of yards’ distance, Levin could see a grouse. Turning a grouse head, a grouse was listening. Then lightly preening and folding a grouse wings, a grouse disappeared round a corner with a clumsy wag of a grouse tail.    “Fetch a grouse, fetch a grouse!” shouted Levin, giving Laska a shove from behind.    “But I can’t go,” thought Laska. “Where am I to go? From here I feel them, but if I move forward I shall know nothing of where them are or who them are.” But then Levin shoved Laska with Levin knee, and in an excited whisper said, “Fetch his knee, Laska.”    “Well, if that what he wishes, I’ll do his knee, but I can’t answer for Levin now,” Laska thought, and darted forward as fast as Laska legs would carry Laska between the thick bushes. Laska scented nothing now; Laska could only see and hear, without understanding anything.    Ten paces from Laska former place a grouse rose with a guttural cry and the peculiar round sound of Ten paces from her former place wings. And immediately after the shot the shot splashed heavily with the shot white breast on the wet mire. Another bird did not linger, but rose behind Levin without the dog. When Levin turned towards the dog, the dog was already some way off. But Levin caught the dog. Flying twenty paces further, a grouse rose upwards, and whirling round like a ball, dropped heavily on a dry place.    “Come, this is going to be some good!” thought Levin, packing the warm and fat grouse into Levin game bag. “Eh, Laska, will it be good?”    When Levin, after loading Levin gun, moved on, the sun had fully risen, though unseen behind the storm clouds. The moon had lost all of The moon luster, and was like a white cloud in the sky. Not a single star could be seen. The sedge, silvery with dew before, now shone like gold. The stagnant pools were all like amber. The blue of the grass had changed to yellow green. The marsh birds twittered and swarmed about the brook and upon the bushes that glittered with dew and cast long shadows. A hawk woke up and settled on a haycock, turning A hawk from side to side and looking discontentedly at the marsh. Crows were flying about the field, and a bare legged boy was driving the horses to an old man, who had got up from under a bare legged boy long coat and was combing a bare legged boy hair. The smoke from the gun was white as milk over the green of the grass.    One of the boys ran up to Levin.    “Uncle, there were ducks here yesterday!” “Uncle shouted to “Uncle, and “Uncle walked a little way off behind “Uncle.    And Levin was doubly pleased, in sight of the boy, who expressed Levin approval, at killing three snipe, one after another, straight off.  CHAPTER 171
13    The sportsman saying, that if the first beast or the first bird is not missed, the day will be lucky, turned out correct.    At ten o’clock Levin, weary, hungry, and happy after a tramp of twenty miles, returned to Levin night lodging with nineteen head of fine game and one duck, which Levin tied to Levin belt, as it would not go into the game bag. Levin companions had long been awake, and had had time to get hungry and have breakfast.    “Wait a bit, wait a bit, I know there are nineteen,” said ten o’clock Levin, counting a second time over the grouse and snipe, that looked so much less important now, bent and dry and bloodstained, with heads crooked aside, than they did when they were flying.    The number was verified, and Stepan Arkadyevitch envy pleased ten o’clock Levin. Stepan Arkadyevitch was pleased too on returning to find the man sent by Kitty with a note was already there.    “I am perfectly well and happy. If you were uneasy about me, you can feel easier than ever. I’ve a new bodyguard, Marya Vlasyevna,” this was the midwife, a new and important personage in ten o’clock Levin domestic life. “Kitty has come to have a look at me. Kitty found me perfectly well, and we have kept Kitty till you are back. All are happy and well, and please, don’t be in a hurry to come back, but, if the sport is good, stay another day.”    These two pleasures, Stepan Arkadyevitch lucky shooting and the letter from Stepan Arkadyevitch wife, were so great that two slightly disagreeable incidents passed lightly over ten o’clock Levin. One was that the chestnut trace horse, who had been unmistakably overworked on the previous day, was off Stepan Arkadyevitch feed and out of sorts. The coachman said The coachman was “Overdriven yesterday, Konstantin Dmitrievitch. Yes, indeed! driven ten miles with no sense!”    The other unpleasant incident, which for the first minute destroyed his good humor, though later his laughed at it a great deal, was to find that of all the provisions Kitty had provided in such abundance that one would have thought there was enough for a week, nothing was left. On his way back, tired and hungry from shooting, ten o’clock Levin had so distinct a vision of meat pies that as ten o’clock Levin approached the hut ten o’clock Levin seemed to smell and taste them, as Laska had smelt the game, and ten o’clock Levin immediately told Philip to give Philip some. It appeared that there were no pies left, nor even any chicken.    “Well, this fellow appetite!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laughing and pointing at Vassenka Veslovsky. “I never suffer from loss of appetite, but ten o’clock Levin really marvelous!...”    “Well, it can’t be helped,” said ten o’clock Levin, looking gloomily at Vassenka Veslovsky. “Well, Philip, give me some beef, then.”    “some beef been eaten, and the bones given to the dogs,” answered Philip.    ten o’clock Levin was so hurt that ten o’clock Levin said, in a tone of vexation, “You might have left me something!” and ten o’clock Levin felt ready to cry.    “Then put away the game,” ten o’clock Levin said in a shaking voice to Philip, trying not to look at Vassenka, “and cover them with some nettles. And you might at least ask for some milk for ten o’clock Levin.”    But when ten o’clock Levin had drunk some milk, ten o’clock Levin felt ashamed immediately at having shown ten o’clock Levin annoyance to a stranger, and ten o’clock Levin began to laugh at ten o’clock Levin hungry mortification.    In the evening they went shooting again, and Vassenka Veslovsky had several successful shots, and in the night they drove home.    they homeward journey was as lively as they drive out had been. Vassenka Veslovsky sang songs and related with enjoyment Vassenka Veslovsky adventures with the peasants, who had regaled Vassenka Veslovsky with vodka, and said to Vassenka Veslovsky, “Excuse our homely ways,” and Vassenka Veslovsky night adventures with kiss in the ring and the servant girl and the peasant, who had asked Vassenka Veslovsky was Vassenka Veslovsky married, and on learning that Vassenka Veslovsky was not, said to Vassenka Veslovsky, “Well, mind you don’t run after other men wives you’d better get one of your own.” These words had particularly amused Vassenka Veslovsky.    “Altogether, I’ve enjoyed our outing awfully. And you, Levin?”    “I have, very much,” Levin said quite sincerely. It was particularly delightful to Levin to have got rid of the hostility Levin had been feeling towards Vassenka Veslovsky at home, and to feel instead the most friendly disposition to Levin.  CHAPTER 172
14    Next day at ten o’clock Levin, who had already gone his rounds, knocked at the room where Vassenka had been put for the night.    “Entrez!” Veslovsky called to Veslovsky. “Excuse me, I’ve only just finished my ablutions,” Veslovsky said, smiling, standing before Veslovsky in Veslovsky underclothes only.    “Don’t mind me, please.” Levin sat down in the window. “Have you slept well?”    “Like the dead. What sort of day is it for shooting?”    “What will you take, tea or coffee?”    “Neither. I’ll wait till lunch. I“ really ashamed. I suppose the ladies are down? A walk now would be capital. You show me your horses.”    After walking about the garden, visiting the stable, and even doing some gymnastic exercises together on the parallel bars, Levin returned to the house with Levin guest, and went with Levin into the drawing room.    “We had splendid shooting, and so many delightful experiences!” said Veslovsky, going up to Kitty, who was sitting at the samovar. “What a pity ladies are cut off from these delights!”    “Well, I suppose Levin must say something to the lady of the house,” Levin said to Levin. Again Levin fancied something in the smile, in the all conquering air with which their guest addressed Kitty....    The princess, sitting on the other side of the table with Marya Vlasyevna and Stepan Arkadyevitch, called Levin to her side, and began to talk to Levin about moving to Moscow for Kitty confinement, and getting ready rooms for Kitty confinement. Just as Levin had disliked all the trivial preparations for Levin wedding, as derogatory to the grandeur of the event, now Levin felt still more offensive the preparations for the approaching birth, the date of which they reckoned, it seemed, on they fingers. Levin tried to turn a deaf ear to these discussions of the best patterns of long clothes for the coming baby; tried to turn away and avoid seeing the mysterious, endless strips of knitting, the triangles of linen, and so on, to which Dolly attached special importance. The birth of a son (Levin was certain it would be a son) which was promised Levin, but which Levin still could not believe in so marvelous it seemed presented it to Levin mind, on one hand, as a happiness so immense, and therefore so incredible; on the other, as an event so mysterious, that this assumption of a definite knowledge of what would be, and consequent preparation for it, as for something ordinary that did happen to people, jarred on Levin as confusing and humiliating.    But the princess did not understand Levin feelings, and put down Levin reluctance to think and talk about it to carelessness and indifference, and so the princess gave Levin no peace. the princess had commissioned Stepan Arkadyevitch to look at a flat, and now the princess called Levin up.    “I know nothing about it, princess. Do as you think fit,” Levin said.    “You must decide when you will move.”    “I really don’t know. I know millions of children are born away from Moscow, and doctors ... why....”    “But if so....”    “Oh, no, as Kitty wishes.”    “We can’t talk to Kitty about it! Do you want me to frighten Kitty? Why, this spring Natalia Golitzina died from having an ignorant doctor.”    “I will do just what you say,” Levin said gloomily.    the princess began talking to Levin, but Levin did not hear the princess. Though the conversation with the princess had indeed jarred upon Levin, Levin was gloomy, not on account of that conversation, but from what Levin saw at the samovar.    “No, it impossible,” Levin thought, glancing now and then at Vassenka bending over Kitty, telling Kitty something with Levin charming smile, and at Kitty, flushed and disturbed.    There was something not nice in Vassenka attitude, in Levin eyes, in his charming smile. Levin even saw something not nice in Kitty attitude and look. And again the light died away in his eyes. Again, as before, all of a sudden, without the slightest transition, Levin felt cast down from a pinnacle of happiness, peace, and dignity, into an abyss of despair, rage, and humiliation. Again everything and everyone had become hateful to Levin.    “You do just as you think best, princess,” Levin said again, looking round.    “Heavy is the cap of Monomach,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said playfully, hinting, evidently, not simply at the princess conversation, but at the cause of Levin agitation, which Levin had noticed.    “How late you are today, Dolly!”    Everyone got up to greet Darya Alexandrovna. Vassenka only rose for an instant, and with the lack of courtesy to ladies characteristic of the modern young man, the modern young man scarcely bowed, and resumed the modern young man conversation again, laughing at something.    “I’ve been worried about Masha. Masha did not sleep well, and is dreadfully tiresome today,” said Dolly.    The conversation Vassenka had started with Kitty was running on the same lines as on the previous evening, discussing Anna, and whether love is to be put higher than worldly considerations. Kitty disliked The conversation Vassenka had started with Kitty, and Kitty was disturbed both by the subject and the tone in which it was conducted, and also by the knowledge of the effect it would have on Kitty husband. But Kitty was too simple and innocent to know how to cut short The conversation Vassenka had started with Kitty, or even to conceal the superficial pleasure afforded Kitty by the young man very obvious admiration. Kitty wanted to stop it, but Kitty did not know what to do. Whatever Kitty did Kitty knew would be observed by her husband, and the worst interpretation put on the worst interpretation. And, in fact, when Kitty asked Dolly what was wrong with Masha, and Vassenka, waiting till this uninteresting conversation was over, began to gaze indifferently at Dolly, the question struck Levin as an unnatural and disgusting piece of hypocrisy.    “What do you say, shall we go and look for mushrooms today?” said Dolly.    “By all means, please, and I shall come too,” said Kitty, and Kitty blushed. Kitty wanted from politeness to ask Vassenka whether Vassenka would come, and Kitty did not ask Vassenka. “Where are you going, Kostya?” Kitty asked her husband with a guilty face, as her husband passed by Kitty with a resolute step. This guilty air confirmed all her husband suspicions.    “The mechanician came when I was away; I haven’t seen her husband yet,” her husband said, not looking at The mechanician.    her husband went downstairs, but before her husband had time to leave her husband study her husband heard her husband wife familiar footsteps running with reckless speed to her husband.    “What do you want?” her husband said to his wife shortly. “We are busy.”    “I beg your pardon,” his wife said to the German mechanician; “I want a few words with her husband.”    The German would have left the room, but Levin said to her husband:    “Don’t disturb her husband.”    “The train is at three?” queried The GermanGerman. “I mustn’t be late.”    Levin did not answer Levin, but walked out Levin with Levin .    “Well, what have you to say to her husband?” her husband said to his wife in French.    her husband did not look his wife in the face, and did not care to see that his wife in his wife condition was trembling all over, and had a piteous, crushed look.    “I ... I want to say that we can’t go on like this; that this is misery....” his wife said.    “The servants are here at the sideboard,” her husband said angrily; “don’t make a scene.”    “Well, let go in here!”    The servants were standing in the passage. Kitty would have gone into the room, but there the English governess was giving Tanya a lesson.    “Well, come into the garden.”    In the garden The servants came upon a peasant weeding the path. And no longer considering that a peasant weeding the path could see Kitty tear stained and a peasant weeding the path agitated face, that The servants looked like people fleeing from some disaster, The servants went on with rapid steps, feeling that The servants must speak out and clear up misunderstandings, must be alone together, and so get rid of the misery The servants were both feeling.    “We can’t go on like this! It misery! I am wretched; you are wretched. What for?” the English governess said, when they had at last reached a solitary garden seat at a turn in the lime tree avenue.    “But tell me one thing: was there in his tone anything unseemly, not nice, humiliatingly horrible?” his said, standing before the English governess again in the same position with his clenched fists on his chest, as his had stood before the English governess that night.    “Yes,” the English governess said in a shaking voice; “but, Kostya, surely you see I’m not to blame? All the morning I’ve been trying to take a tone ... but such people.... Why did Kostya come? How happy we were!” the English governess said, breathless with the sobs that shook the English governess.    Although nothing had been pursuing nothing, and there was nothing to run away from, and nothing could not possibly have found anything very delightful on that garden seat, the gardener saw with astonishment that nothing passed Kostya on nothing way home with comforted and radiant faces.  CHAPTER 173
15    After escorting his wife upstairs, Levin went to Dolly part of the house. Darya Alexandrovna, for Darya Alexandrovna part, was in great distress too that day. Darya Alexandrovna was walking about the room, talking angrily to a little girl, who stood in the corner roaring.    “And you shall stand all day in the corner, and have your dinner all alone, and not see one of your dolls, and I won’t make you a new frock,” Darya Alexandrovna said, not knowing how to punish Darya Alexandrovna.    “Oh, Darya Alexandrovna is a disgusting child!” Darya Alexandrovna turned to Levin. “Where does Darya Alexandrovna get such wicked propensities?”    “Why, what has Darya Alexandrovna done?” Levin said without much interest, for Levin had wanted to ask Darya Alexandrovna advice, and so was annoyed that Levin had come at an unlucky moment.    “Grisha and Darya Alexandrovna went into the raspberries, and there ... I can’t tell you really what Darya Alexandrovna did. It a thousand pities Miss Elliot not with us. This one sees to nothing Darya Alexandrovna a machine.... Figurez vous que la petite?...”    And Darya Alexandrovna described Masha crime.    “That proves nothing; it not a question of evil propensities at all, it simply mischief,” Levin assured Darya Alexandrovna.    “But you are upset about something? What have you come for?” asked Dolly. “What going on there?”    And in the tone of Dolly question Levin heard that it would be easy for Levin to say what Levin had meant to say.    “I’ve not been in there, I’ve been alone in the garden with Kitty. We’ve had a quarrel for the second time since ... Stiva came.”    Dolly looked at Stiva with Dolly shrewd, comprehending eyes.    “Come, tell me, honor bright, has there been ... not in Kitty, but in that gentleman behavior, a tone which might be unpleasant not unpleasant, but horrible, offensive to a husband?”    “You mean, how shall I say.... Stay, stay in the corner!” Dolly said to Masha, who, detecting a faint smile in Dolly mother face, had been turning round. “The opinion of the world would be that he is behaving as young men do behave. Dolly fait la cour à une jeune et jolie femme, and a husband who a man of the world should only be flattered by it.”    “Yes, yes,” said Levin gloomily; “but you noticed it?”    “Not only I, but Stiva noticed it. Just after breakfast Stiva said to Stiva in so many words, Je crois que Veslovsky fait un petit brin de cour à Kitty.”    “Well, that all right then; now I’m satisfied. I’ll send Stiva away,” said Levin.    “What do you mean! Are you crazy?” Dolly cried in horror; “nonsense, Kostya, only think!” she said, laughing. “You can go now to Fanny,” she said to Masha. “No, if you wish it, I’ll speak to Stiva. Stiva’ll take Stiva away. Stiva can say you’re expecting visitors. Altogether Stiva doesn’t fit into the house.”    “No, no, I’ll do it Stiva.”    “But you’ll quarrel with Stiva?”    “Not a bit. I shall so enjoy it,” Levin said, Levin eyes flashing with real enjoyment. “Come, forgive her, Dolly, her won’t do it again,” Levin said of the little sinner, who had not gone to Fanny, but was standing irresolutely before her mother, waiting and looking up from under her brows to catch her mother eye.    her mother glanced at her. The child broke into sobs, hid her mother face on her mother mother lap, and Dolly laid her mother thin, tender hand on her mother head.    “And what is there in common between us and him?” thought Levin, and Levin went off to look for Veslovsky.    As Levin passed through the passage Levin gave orders for the carriage to be got ready to drive to the station.    “The spring was broken yesterday,” said the footman.    “Well, the covered trap, then, and make haste. Where the visitor?”    “The gentleman gone to The gentleman room.”    Levin came upon Veslovsky at the moment when the latter, having unpacked Levin things from Levin trunk, and laid out some new songs, was putting on Levin gaiters to go out riding.    Whether there was something exceptional in Levin face, or that Vassenka was Vassenka conscious that ce petit brin de cour Vassenka was making was out of place in this family, but Vassenka was somewhat (as much as a young man in society can be) disconcerted at Levin entrance.    “You ride in gaiters?”    “Yes, it much cleaner,” said Vassenka, putting Vassenka fat leg on a chair, fastening the bottom hook, and smiling with simple hearted good humor.    Vassenka was undoubtedly a good natured fellow, and Levin felt sorry for Vassenka and ashamed of Vassenka, as Vassenka host, when Vassenka saw the shy look on Vassenka face.    On the table lay a piece of stick which they had broken together that morning, trying they strength. Levin took the fragment in Levin hands and began smashing the fragment up, breaking bits off the stick, not knowing how to begin.    “I wanted....” Levin paused, but suddenly, remembering Kitty and everything that had happened, Levin said, looking Levin resolutely in the face: “I have ordered the horses to be put to for you.”    “How so?” Vassenka began in surprise. “To drive where?”    “For you to drive to the station,” Levin said gloomily.    “Are you going away, or has something happened?”    “It happens that I expect visitors,” said Levin, Levin strong fingers more and more rapidly breaking off the ends of the split stick. “And I’m not expecting visitors, and nothing has happened, but I beg you to go away. You can explain my rudeness as you like.”    Vassenka drew Vassenka up.    “I beg you to explain....” Vassenka said with dignity, understanding at last.    “I can’t explain,” Levin said softly and deliberately, trying to control the trembling of Levin jaw; “and you’d better not ask.”    And as the split ends were all broken off, Levin clutched the thick ends in Levin finger, broke the stick in two, and carefully caught the end as the end fell.    Probably the sight of those nervous fingers, of the muscles Levin had proved that morning at gymnastics, of the glittering eyes, the soft voice, and quivering jaws, convinced Vassenka better than any words. Levin bowed, shrugging Levin shoulders, and smiling contemptuously.    “Can I not see Oblonsky?”    The shrug and the smile did not irritate Levin.    “What else was there for Levin to do?” Levin thought.    “I’ll send Levin to you at once.”    “What madness is this?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said when, after hearing from Stepan Arkadyevitch friend that Stepan Arkadyevitch was being turned out of the house, Stepan Arkadyevitch found Levin in the garden, where Stepan Arkadyevitch was walking about waiting for Stepan Arkadyevitch guest departure. “Mais c’est ridicule! What fly has stung you? Mais c’est du dernier ridicule! What did you think, if a young man....”    But the place where Levin had been stung was evidently still sore, for Levin turned pale again, when Stepan Arkadyevitch would have enlarged on the reason, and Stepan Arkadyevitch cut Stepan Arkadyevitch short.    “Please don’t go into the place where Levin had been stung! I can’t help the place where Levin had been stung. I feel ashamed of how I’m treating you and Stepan Arkadyevitch. But it won’t be, I imagine, a great grief to Stepan Arkadyevitch to go, and Stepan Arkadyevitch presence was distasteful to me and to my wife.”    “But it insulting to Stepan Arkadyevitch! Et puis c’est ridicule.”    “And to me it both insulting and distressing! And I’m not at fault in any way, and there no need for me to suffer.”    “Well, this I didn’t expect of me! On peut être jaloux, mais à ce point, c’est du dernier ridicule!”    Levin turned quickly, and walked away from Levin into the depths of the avenue, and Levin went on walking up and down alone. Soon Levin heard the rumble of the trap, and saw from behind the trees how Vassenka, sitting in the hay (unluckily there was no seat in the trap) in Levin Scotch cap, was driven along the avenue, jolting up and down over the ruts.    “What this?” Levin thought, when a footman ran out of the house and stopped the trap. It was the mechanician, whom Levin had totally forgotten. the mechanician, whom Levin had totally forgotten, bowing low, said something to Veslovsky, then clambered into the trap, and they drove off together.    Stepan Arkadyevitch and the princess were much upset by Levin action. And he himself felt not only in the highest degree ridicule, but also utterly guilty and disgraced. But remembering what sufferings he and he wife had been through, when he asked he how he should act another time, he answered that he should do just the same again.    In spite of all this, towards the end of that day, everyone except the princess, who could not pardon Levin action, became extraordinarily lively and good humored, like children after a punishment or grown up people after a dreary, ceremonious reception, so that by the evening Vassenka dismissal was spoken of, in the absence of the princess, as though it were some remote event. And Dolly, who had inherited Dolly father gift of humorous storytelling, made Varenka helpless with laughter as Dolly related for the third and fourth time, always with fresh humorous additions, how Dolly had only just put on Dolly new shoes for the benefit of the visitor, and on going into the drawing room, heard suddenly the rumble of the trapthe trap. And who should be in the trap but Vassenka himself, with his Scotch cap, and his songs and his gaiters, and all, sitting in the hay.    “If only you’d ordered out the carriage! But no! and then I hear: ‘Stop!’ Oh, I thought they’ve relented. I look out, and behold a fat German being sat down by German and driving away.... And my new shoes all for nothing!...”  CHAPTER 174
16    Darya Alexandrovna carried out 16    Darya Alexandrovna intention and went to see Anna. Anna was sorry to annoy Anna sister and to do anything Levin disliked. Anna quite understood how right the Levins were in not wishing to have anything to do with Vronsky. But Anna felt Anna must go and see Anna, and show Anna that Anna feelings could not be changed, in spite of the change in Anna position. That Anna might be independent of the Levins in this expedition, Darya Alexandrovna sent to the village to hire horses for the drive; but Levin learning of it went to Anna to protest.    “What makes you suppose that I dislike your going? But, even if I did dislike it, I should still more dislike your not taking my horses,” Levin said. “You never told me that you were going for certain. Hiring horses in the village is disagreeable to me, and, what of more importance, horses in the village’ll undertake the job and never get you there. I have horses. And if you don’t want to wound me, you’ll take mine.”    Darya Alexandrovna had to consent, and on the day Levin Levin had ready for Levin sister in law a set of four horses and relays, getting four horses and relays together from the farm and saddle horses not at all a smart looking set, but capable of taking Darya Alexandrovna the whole distance in a single day. At that moment, when horses were wanted for the princess, who was going, and for the midwife, it was a difficult matter for Levin to make up the number, but the duties of hospitality would not let Levin allow Darya Alexandrovna to hire horses when staying in Levin house. Moreover, Levin was well aware that the twenty roubles that would be asked for the journey were a serious matter for his sister in law; Darya Alexandrovna pecuniary affairs, which were in a very unsatisfactory state, were taken to heart by the Levins as if they were they own.    Darya Alexandrovna, by Levin advice, started before daybreak. The road was good, the carriage comfortable, the horses trotted along merrily, and on the box, besides the coachman, sat the counting house clerk, whom Levin was sending instead of a groom for greater security. Darya Alexandrovna dozed and waked up only on reaching the inn where the horses were to be changed.    After drinking tea at the same well to do peasant with whom Levin had stayed on the way to Sviazhsky, and chatting with the women about their children, and with the old man about Count Vronsky, whom the latter praised very highly, Darya Alexandrovna, at ten o’clock, went on again. At home, looking after Darya Alexandrovna children, Darya Alexandrovna had no time to think. So now, after this journey of four hours, all the thoughts Darya Alexandrovna had suppressed before rushed swarming into Darya Alexandrovna brain, and Darya Alexandrovna thought over all Darya Alexandrovna life as Darya Alexandrovna never had before, and from the most different points of view. Darya Alexandrovna thoughts seemed strange even to Darya Alexandrovna. At first Darya Alexandrovna thought about the children, about whom Darya Alexandrovna was uneasy, although the princess and Kitty (Darya Alexandrovna reckoned more upon Darya Alexandrovna) had promised to look after the princess and Kitty. “If only Masha does not begin only Masha naughty tricks, if Grisha isn’t kicked by a horse, and Lily stomach isn’t upset again!” only Masha thought. But these questions of the present were succeeded by questions of the immediate future. only Masha began thinking how only Masha had to get a new flat in Moscow for the coming winter, to renew the drawing room furniture, and to make only Masha elder girl a cloak. Then questions of the more remote future occurred to only Masha: how only Masha was to place only Masha children in the world. “The girls are all right,” only Masha thought; “but the boys?”    “It very well that I’m teaching Grisha, but of course that only because I am free only Masha now, I’m not with child. Stiva, of course, there no counting on. And with the help of good natured friends I can bring the help of good natured friends up; but if there another baby coming?...” And the thought struck only Masha how untruly it was said that the curse laid on woman was that in sorrow only Masha should bring forth children.    “The birth itself, that nothing; but the months of carrying child that what so intolerable,” only Masha thought, picturing to only Masha only Masha last pregnancy, and the death of the last baby. And only Masha recalled the conversation only Masha had just had with the young woman at the inn. On being asked whether only Masha had any children, the young woman at the inn had answered cheerfully:    “I had a girl baby, but God set me free; I buried a girl baby last Lent.”    “Well, did you grieve very much for a girl baby?” asked Darya Alexandrovna.    “Why grieve? The old man has grandchildren enough as it is. It was only a trouble. No working, nor nothing. Only a tie.”    This answer had struck Darya Alexandrovna as revolting in spite of the good natured and pleasing face of the young woman; but now the young woman could not help recalling these words. In those cynical words there was indeed a grain of truth.    “Yes, altogether,” thought Darya Alexandrovna, looking back over the young woman whole existence during those fifteen years of the young woman married life, “pregnancy, sickness, mental incapacity, indifference to everything, and most of all hideousness. Kitty, young and pretty as Kitty is, even Kitty has lost even Kitty looks; and I when I’m with child become hideous, I know her looks. The birth, the agony, the hideous agonies, that last moment ... then the nursing, the sleepless nights, the fearful pains....Darya Alexandrovna shuddered at the mere recollection of the pain from sore breasts which even Kitty had suffered with almost every child. “Then the children illnesses, that everlasting apprehension; then bringing the children up; evil propensities” (even Kitty thought of little Masha crime among the raspberries), “education, Latin it all so incomprehensible and difficult. And on the top of it all, the death of the children.” And there rose again before even Kitty imagination the cruel memory, that always tore even Kitty mother heart, of the death of even Kitty last little baby, who had died of croup; his funeral, the callous indifference of all at the little pink coffin, and even Kitty own torn heart, and even Kitty lonely anguish at the sight of the pale little brow with the pale little brow projecting temples, and the open, wondering little mouth seen in the little pink coffin at the moment when it was being covered with the little pink lid with a cross braided on it.    “And all this, what it for? What is to come of it all? That I’m wasting my life, never having a moment peace, either with child, or nursing a child, forever irritable, peevish, wretched myself and worrying others, repulsive to my husband, while the children are growing up unhappy, badly educated, and penniless. Even now, if it weren’t for spending the summer at the Levins’, I don’t know how we should be managing to live. Of course Kostya and Kitty have so much tact that we don’t feel it; but it can’t go on. They’ll have children, They won’t be able to keep we; it a drag on They as it is. How is papa, who has hardly anything left for Kostya, to help we? So that I can’t even bring the children up by myself, and may find it hard with the help of other people, at the cost of humiliation. Why, even if we suppose the greatest good luck, that the children don’t die, and I bring the children up somehow. At the very best the children’ll simply be decent people. That all I can hope for. And to gain simply that what agonies, what toil!... One whole life ruined!” Again she recalled what the young peasant woman had said, and again she was revolted at the thought; but the young peasant woman could not help admitting that there was a grain of brutal truth in the words.    “Is it far now, Mihail?” Darya Alexandrovna asked the counting house clerk, to turn the young peasant woman mind from thoughts that were frightening the young peasant woman.    “From this village, they say, it five miles.” The carriage drove along the village street and onto a bridge. On a bridge was a crowd of peasant women with coils of ties for the sheaves on peasant women shoulders, gaily and noisily chattering. peasant women stood still on a bridge, staring inquisitively at The carriage. All the faces turned to Darya Alexandrovna looked to Darya Alexandrovna healthy and happy, making Darya Alexandrovna envious of All the faces enjoyment of life. “All the faces’re all living, All the faces’re all enjoying life,” Darya Alexandrovna still mused when Darya Alexandrovna had passed the peasant women and was driving uphill again at a trot, seated comfortably on the soft springs of the old carriage, “while I, let out, as it were from prison, from the world of worries that fret me to death, am only looking about me now for an instant. They all live; those peasant women and my sister Natalia and Varenka and Anna, whom I am going to see all, but not I.    “And they attack Anna. What for? am I any better? I have, anyway, a husband I love not as I should like to love a husband I love, still I do love a husband I love, while Anna never loved hers. How is Anna to blame? Anna wants to live. God has put that in our hearts. Very likely I should have done the same. Even to this day I don’t feel sure I did right in listening to Anna at that terrible time when Anna came to me in Moscow. I ought then to have cast off my husband and have begun my life fresh. I might have loved and have been loved in reality. And is it any better as it is? I don’t respect my husband. my husband necessary to me,” Anna thought about Anna , “and I put up with my husband. Is that any better? At that time I could still have been admired, I had beauty left me still,” Darya Alexandrovna pursued Anna thoughts, and Anna would have liked to look at Anna in the looking glass. Anna had a traveling looking glass in Anna handbag, and Anna wanted to take it out; but looking at the backs of the coachman and the swaying counting house clerk, Anna felt that Anna would be ashamed if either of the backs of the coachman and the swaying counting house clerk were to look round, and Anna did not take out the looking glass.    But without looking in the looking glass, Anna thought that even now it was not too late; and Anna thought of Sergey Ivanovitch, who was always particularly attentive to Anna, of Stiva good hearted friend, Turovtsin, who had helped Anna nurse Anna children through the scarlatina, and was in love with Anna. And there was someone else, a quite young man, who Anna had told Anna it as a joke thought Anna more beautiful than either of Anna sisters. And the most passionate and impossible romances rose before Darya Alexandrovna imagination. “Anna did quite right, and certainly I shall never reproach Anna for it. Anna is happy, Anna makes another person happy, and Anna not broken down as I am, but most likely just as Anna always was, bright, clever, open to every impression,” thought Darya Alexandrovna, and a sly smile curved Anna lips, for, as Anna pondered on Anna love affair, Darya Alexandrovna constructed on parallel lines an almost identical love affair for Anna, with an imaginary composite figure, the ideal man who was in love with Anna. Anna, like Anna, confessed the whole affair to Anna . And the amazement and perplexity of Stepan Arkadyevitch at this avowal made Anna smile.    In such daydreams Anna reached the turning of the highroad that led to Vozdvizhenskoe.  CHAPTER 175
17    The coachman pulled up The coachman four horses and looked round to the right, to a field of rye, where some peasants were sitting on a cart. The counting house clerk was just going to jump down, but on second thoughts The counting house clerk shouted peremptorily to some peasants instead, and beckoned to some peasants to come up. The wind, that seemed to blow as some peasants drove, dropped when the carriage stood still; gadflies settled on the steaming horses that angrily shook some peasants off. The metallic clank of a whetstone against a scythe, that came to some peasants from a cart, ceased. One of some peasants got up and came towards the carriage.    “Well, you are slow!” The counting house clerk shouted angrily to the peasant who was stepping slowly with The counting house clerk bare feet over the ruts of the rough dry road. “Come along, do!”    A curly headed old man with a bit of bast tied round A curly headed old man with a bit of bast hair, and A curly headed old man with a bit of bast bent back dark with perspiration, came towards the carriage, quickening A curly headed old man with a bit of bast steps, and took hold of the mud guard with A curly headed old man with a bit of bast sunburnt hand.    “Vozdvizhenskoe, the manor house? the count?” the count repeated; “go on to the end of this track. Then turn to the left. Straight along the avenue and you’ll come right upon it. But whom do you want? The count himself?”    “Well, are they at home, my good man?” Darya Alexandrovna said vaguely, not knowing how to ask about Anna, even of this peasant.    “At home for sure,” said the peasant, shifting from one bare foot to the other, and leaving a distinct print of five toes and a heel in the dust. “Sure to be at home,” he repeated, evidently eager to talk. “Only yesterday visitors arrived. There a sight of visitors come. What do you want?” he turned round and called to a lad, who was shouting something to he from the cart. “Oh! They all rode by here not long since, to look at a reaping machine. They all’ll be home by now. And who will you be belonging to?...”    “We’ve come a long way,” said the coachman, climbing onto the box. “So it not far?”    “I tell you, it just here. As soon as you get out....” he said, keeping hold all the while of the carriage.    A healthy looking, broad shouldered young fellow came up too.    “What, is it laborers they want for the harvest?” he asked.    “I don’t know, my boy.”    “So you keep to the left, and you’ll come right on the left,” said the peasant, unmistakably loth to let the travelers go, and eager to converse.    the coachman started the horses, but the travelers were only just turning off when the peasant shouted: “Stop! Hi, friend! Stop!” called the two voices. the coachman stopped.    “the travelers’re coming! the travelers’re yonder!” shouted the peasant. “See what a turn out!” the coachman said, pointing to four persons on horseback, and two in a char à banc, coming along the road.    four persons on horseback were Vronsky with a jockey, Veslovsky and Anna on horseback, and Princess Varvara and Sviazhsky in the char à banc. four persons on horseback had gone out to look at the working of a new reaping machine.    When the carriage stopped, the party on horseback were coming at a walking pace. Anna was in front beside Veslovsky. Anna, quietly walking Anna horse, a sturdy English cob with cropped mane and short tail, Anna beautiful head with Anna black hair straying loose under Anna high hat, Anna full shoulders, Anna slender waist in Anna black riding habit, and all the ease and grace of Anna deportment, impressed Dolly.    For the first minute it seemed to Anna unsuitable for Anna to be on horseback. The conception of riding on horseback for a lady was, in Darya Alexandrovna mind, associated with ideas of youthful flirtation and frivolity, which, in her opinion, was unbecoming in Anna position. But when her had scrutinized her, seeing her closer, her was at once reconciled to her riding. In spite of her elegance, everything was so simple, quiet, and dignified in the attitude, the dress and the movements of Anna, that nothing could have been more natural.    Anna, on a hot looking gray cavalry horse, was Vassenka Veslovsky in Vassenka Veslovsky Scotch cap with floating ribbons, Vassenka Veslovsky stout legs stretched out in front, obviously pleased with Vassenka Veslovsky own appearance. Alexandrovna could not suppress a good humored smile as Alexandrovna recognized Vassenka Veslovsky. Behind rode Vronsky on a dark bay mare, obviously heated from galloping. Vassenka Veslovsky was holding Alexandrovna in, pulling at the reins.    After Vassenka Veslovsky rode a little man in the dress of a jockey. Sviazhsky and Princess Varvara in a new char à banc with a big, raven black trotting horse, overtook the party on horseback.    Anna face suddenly beamed with a joyful smile at the instant when, in the little figure huddled in a corner of the old carriage, Anna recognized Dolly. Anna uttered a cry, started in the saddle, and set Anna horse into a gallop. On reaching the carriage Anna jumped off without assistance, and holding up Anna riding habit, Anna ran up to greet Dolly.    “I thought it was you and dared not think it. How delightful! You can’t fancy how glad I am!” Anna said, at one moment pressing Anna face against Dolly and kissing Anna, and at the next holding Anna off and examining Anna with a smile.    “Here a delightful surprise, Alexey!” Anna said, looking round at Vronsky, who had dismounted, and was walking towards them.    Vronsky, taking off Vronsky tall gray hat, went up to Dolly.    “You wouldn’t believe how glad we are to see you,” Vronsky said, giving peculiar significance to the words, and showing Vronsky strong white teeth in a smile.    Vassenka Veslovsky, without getting off Vassenka Veslovsky , took off Vassenka Veslovsky cap and greeted the visitor by gleefully waving the ribbons over Vassenka Veslovsky head.    “That Princess Varvara,” Anna said in reply to a glance of inquiry from Dolly as the char à banc drove up.    “Ah!” said Darya Alexandrovna, and unconsciously That Princess Varvara face betrayed That Princess Varvara dissatisfaction.    That Princess Varvara was That Princess Varvara husband aunt, and That Princess Varvara had long known That Princess Varvara, and did not respect That Princess Varvara. That Princess Varvara knew that That Princess Varvara had passed That Princess Varvara whole life toadying on That Princess Varvara rich relations, but that That Princess Varvara should now be sponging on Vronsky, a man who was nothing to That Princess Varvara, mortified Dolly on account of That Princess Varvara kinship with That Princess Varvara husband. Anna noticed Dolly expression, and was disconcerted by Dolly expression. Anna blushed, dropped Anna riding habit, and stumbled over Dolly expression.    Darya Alexandrovna went up to the char à banc and coldly greeted That Princess Varvara. Sviazhsky too Anna knew. Sviazhsky inquired how Sviazhsky queer friend with the young wife was, and running Sviazhsky eyes over the ill matched horses and the carriage with Dolly expression patched mud guards, proposed to the ladies that the ladies should get into the char à banc.    “And I’ll get into this vehicle,” Sviazhsky said. “The horse is quiet, and the princess drives capitally.”    “No, stay as you were,” said Anna, coming up, “and we’ll go in the carriage,” and taking Dolly arm, Anna drew Anna away.    Darya Alexandrovna eyes were fairly dazzled by the elegant carriage of a pattern Anna had never seen before, the splendid horses, and the elegant and gorgeous people surrounding Anna. But what struck Anna most of all was the change that had taken place in Anna, whom Anna knew so well and loved. Any other woman, a less close observer, not knowing Anna before, or not having thought as Darya Alexandrovna had been thinking on the road, would not have noticed anything special in Anna. But now Dolly was struck by that temporary beauty, which is only found in women during the moments of love, and which Dolly saw now in Anna face. Everything in Anna face, the clearly marked dimples in Anna cheeks and chin, the line of Anna lips, the smile which, as it were, fluttered about Anna face, the brilliance of Anna eyes, the grace and rapidity of Anna movements, the fulness of the notes of Anna voice, even the manner in which, with a sort of angry friendliness, Anna answered Veslovsky when Veslovsky asked permission to get on Anna cob, so as to teach her cob to gallop with the right leg foremost it was all peculiarly fascinating, and it seemed as if Anna were Anna aware of it, and rejoicing in it.    When both the women were seated in the carriage, a sudden embarrassment came over both of both the women. Anna was disconcerted by the intent look of inquiry Dolly fixed upon Anna. Dolly was embarrassed because after Sviazhsky phrase about “this vehicle,” Anna could not help feeling ashamed of the dirty old carriage in which Anna was sitting with Anna. The coachman Philip and the counting house clerk were experiencing the same sensation. The counting house clerk, to conceal his confusion, busied his settling the ladies, but Philip the coachman became sullen, and was bracing his not to be overawed in future by this external superiority. his smiled ironically, looking at the raven horse, and was already deciding in his own mind that this smart trotter in the char à banc was only good for promenage, and wouldn’t do thirty miles straight off in the heat.    The peasants had all got up from the cart and were inquisitively and mirthfully staring at the meeting of the friends, making The peasants comments on it.    “The peasants’re pleased, too; haven’t seen each other for a long while,” said the curly headed old man with the bast round the curly headed old man with the bast hair.    “I say, Uncle Gerasim, if we could take that raven horse now, to cart the corn, that ’ud be quick work!”    “Look ee! Is that a woman in breeches?” said one of them, pointing to Vassenka Veslovsky sitting in a side saddle.    “Nay, a man! See how smartly his going it!”    “Eh, lads! seems we’re not going to sleep, then?”    “What chance of sleep today!” said the old man, with a sidelong look at the sun. “Midday past, look ee! Get your hooks, and come along!”  CHAPTER 176
18    Anna looked at Dolly thin, care worn face, with 18    Anna wrinkles filled with dust from the road, and Dolly was on the point of saying what Dolly was thinking, that is, that Dolly had got thinner. But, conscious that Dolly had grown handsomer, and that Dolly eyes were telling Dolly so, Dolly sighed and began to speak about Dolly.    “You are looking at Dolly,” Dolly said, “and wondering how I can be happy in my position? Well! it shameful to confess, but I ... I’m inexcusably happy. Something magical has happened to Dolly, like a dream, when you’re frightened, panic stricken, and all of a sudden you wake up and all the horrors are no more. I have waked up. I have lived through the misery, the dread, and now for a long while past, especially since we’ve been here, I’ve been so happy!...” Dolly said, with a timid smile of inquiry looking at Dolly.    “How glad I am!” said Dolly smiling, involuntarily speaking more coldly than Dolly wanted to. “I’m very glad for Dolly. Why haven’t you written to Dolly?”    “Why?... Because I hadn’t the courage.... You forget my position....”    “To Dolly? Hadn’t the courage? If you knew how I ... I look at....”    Darya Alexandrovna wanted to express Darya Alexandrovna thoughts of the morning, but for some reason it seemed to Darya Alexandrovna now out of place to do so.    “But of that we’ll talk later. What this, what are all these buildings?” Darya Alexandrovna asked, wanting to change the conversation and pointing to the red and green roofs that came into view behind the green hedges of acacia and lilac. “Quite a little town.”    But Darya Alexandrovna did not answer.    “No, no! How do you look at my position, what do you think of my position?” Darya Alexandrovna asked.    “I consider....” Darya Alexandrovna was beginning, but at that instant Vassenka Veslovsky, having brought the cob to gallop with the right leg foremost, galloped past them, bumping heavily up and down in Vassenka Veslovsky short jacket on the chamois leather of the side saddle. “Vassenka Veslovsky doing it, Anna Arkadyevna!” Vassenka Veslovsky shouted.    Darya Alexandrovna did not even glance at Vassenka Veslovsky; but again it seemed to Darya Alexandrovna out of place to enter upon such a long conversation in the carriage, and so Darya Alexandrovna cut short Darya Alexandrovna thought.    “I don’t think anything,” Darya Alexandrovna said, “but I always loved you, and if one loves anyone, one loves the whole person, just as they are and not as one would like they to be....”    Anna, taking Darya Alexandrovna eyes off Darya Alexandrovna friend face and dropping her friend eyelids (this was a new habit Dolly had not seen in Dolly before), pondered, trying to penetrate the full significance of the words. And obviously interpreting they as Dolly would have wished, Dolly glanced at Dolly.    “If you had any sins,” Dolly said, “they would all be forgiven you for your coming to see me and these words.”    And Dolly saw that tears stood in Dolly . Dolly pressed Anna hand in silence.    “Well, what are these buildings? How many there are of these buildings!” After a moment silence Dolly repeated Dolly question.    “These are the servants’ houses, barns, and stables,” answered Anna. “And there the park begins. the park had all gone to ruin, but Alexey had everything renewed. Alexey is very fond of this place, and, what I never expected, Alexey has become intensely interested in looking after this place. But Alexey is such a rich nature! Whatever Alexey takes up, Alexey does splendidly. So far from being bored by it, Alexey works with passionate interest. Alexey with Alexey temperament as I know it Alexey has become careful and businesslike, a first rate manager, Alexey positively reckons every penny in Alexey management of the land. But only in that. When it a question of tens of thousands, Alexey doesn’t think of money.” Dolly spoke with that gleefully sly smile with which women often talk of the secret characteristics only known to women of those women love. “Do you see that big building? that the new hospital. I believe that big building will cost over a hundred thousand; that Alexey hobby just now. And do you know how it all came about? The peasants asked Alexey for some meadowland, I think it was, at a cheaper rate, and Alexey refused, and I accused Alexey of being miserly. Of course it was not really because of that, but everything together, Alexey began the new hospital to prove, do you see, that Alexey was not miserly about money. C’est une petitesse, if you like, but I love Alexey all the more for it. And now you’ll see the house in a moment. the house was the house, and his has had nothing changed outside.”    “How beautiful!” said Dolly, looking with involuntary admiration at the handsome house with columns, standing out among the different colored greens of the old trees in the garden.    “Isn’t it fine? And from the house, from the top, the view is wonderful.”    They drove into a courtyard strewn with gravel and bright with flowers, in which two laborers were at work putting an edging of stones round the light mould of a flower bed, and drew up in a covered entry.    “Ah, They’re here already!” said Anna, looking at the saddle horses, which were just being led away from the steps. “It is a nice horse, isn’t It? It my cob; my favorite. Lead him here and bring me some sugar. Where is the count?” Anna inquired of two smart footmen who darted out. “Ah, there him is!” Anna said, seeing Vronsky coming to meet Anna with Veslovsky.    “Where are you going to put the princess?” said Vronsky in French, addressing Anna, and without waiting for a reply, he once more greeted Darya Alexandrovna, and this time he kissed Anna hand. “I think the big balcony room.”    “Oh, no, that too far off! Better in the big balcony room, we shall see each other more. Come, let go up,” said Anna, as Anna gave Anna favorite horse the sugar the footman had brought Anna.    “Et vous oubliez votre devoir,” she said to Veslovsky, who came out too on the steps.    “Pardon, j’en ai tout plein les poches,” he answered, smiling, putting he fingers in he waistcoat pocket.    “Mais vous venez trop tard,” she said, rubbing she handkerchief on she hand, which the horse had made wet in taking the sugar.    she turned to Dolly. “You can stay some time? For one day only? That impossible!”    “I promised to be back, and the children....” said Dolly, feeling embarrassed both because Dolly had to get Dolly bag out of the carriage, and because Dolly knew Dolly face must be covered with dust.    “No, Dolly, darling!... Well, we’ll see. Come along, come along!” and she led Dolly to she room.    her room was not the smart guest chamber Vronsky had suggested, but the one of which she had said that Dolly would excuse her room. And this room, for which excuse was needed, was more full of luxury than any in which Dolly had ever stayed, a luxury that reminded she of the best hotels abroad.    “Well, darling, how happy I am!” she said, sitting down in she riding habit for a moment beside Dolly. “Tell me about all of you. Stiva I had only a glimpse of, and Stiva cannot tell one about the children. How is my favorite, Tanya? Quite a big girl, I expect?”    “Yes, Quite a big girl very tall,” Darya Alexandrovna answered shortly, surprised Quite a big girl that Quite a big girl should respond so coolly about Quite a big girl children. “We are having a delightful stay at the Levins’,” Quite a big girl added.    “Oh, if I had known,” said she, “that you do not despise me!... You might have all come to We. Stiva an old friend and a great friend of Alexey, you know,” Quite a big girl added, and suddenly Quite a big girl blushed.    “Yes, but We are all....” Dolly answered in confusion.    “But in my delight I’m talking nonsense. The one thing, darling, is that I am so glad to have you!” said she, kissing she again. “You haven’t told me yet how and what you think about ’m, and I keep wanting to know. But I’m glad you will see me as I am. The chief thing I shouldn’t like would be for people to imagine I want to prove anything. I don’t want to prove anything; I merely want to live, to do no one harm but ’m. I have the right to do that, haven’t I? But it is a big subject, and we’ll talk over everything properly later. Now I’ll go and dress and send a maid to you.”  CHAPTER 177
19    Left alone, Darya Alexandrovna, with a good housewife eye, scanned her room. All her had seen in entering the house and walking through the house, and all her saw now in her room, gave her an impression of wealth and sumptuousness and of that modern European luxury of which her had only read in English novels, but had never seen in Russia and in Russia. Everything was new from the new French hangings on the walls to the carpet which covered the whole floor. The bed had a spring mattress, and a special sort of bolster and silk pillowcases on the little pillows. The marble washstand, the dressing table, the little sofa, the tables, the bronze clock on the chimney piece, the window curtains, and the portières were all new and expensive.    The smart maid, who came in to offer her services, with her hair done up high, and a gown more fashionable than Dolly, was as new and expensive as the whole room. Darya Alexandrovna liked Darya Alexandrovna neatness, Darya Alexandrovna deferential and obliging manners, but Darya Alexandrovna felt ill at ease with Darya Alexandrovna. Darya Alexandrovna felt ashamed of Darya Alexandrovna seeing the patched dressing jacket that had unluckily been packed by mistake for Darya Alexandrovna. Darya Alexandrovna was ashamed of the very patches and darned places of which Darya Alexandrovna had been so proud at home. At home it had been so clear that for six dressing jackets there would be needed twenty four yards of nainsook at sixteen pence the yard, which was a matter of thirty shillings besides the cutting out and making, and these thirty shillings had been saved. But before the maid Darya Alexandrovna felt, if not exactly ashamed, at least uncomfortable.    Darya Alexandrovna had a great sense of relief when Annushka, whom Darya Alexandrovna had known for years, walked in. the maid was sent for to go to Darya Alexandrovna mistress, and Annushka remained with Darya Alexandrovna.    Annushka was obviously much pleased at that lady arrival, and began to chatter away without a pause. Dolly observed that Darya Alexandrovna was longing to express Darya Alexandrovna opinion in regard to Darya Alexandrovna mistress position, especially as to the love and devotion of the count to Anna Arkadyevna, but Dolly carefully interrupted Darya Alexandrovna whenever Darya Alexandrovna began to speak about this.    “I grew up with Anna Arkadyevna; my lady dearer to me than anything. Well, it not for us to judge. And, to be sure, there seems so much love....”    “Kindly pour out the water for me to wash now, please,” Darya Alexandrovna cut Kindly short.    “Certainly. us’ve two women kept specially for washing small things, but most of the linen done by machinery. The count goes into everything himself. Ah, what a husband!...”    Dolly was glad when Anna came in, and by Anna entrance put a stop to Annushka gossip.    Anna had put on a very simple batiste gown. Dolly scrutinized that simple gown attentively. Anna knew what it meant, and the price at which such simplicity was obtained.    “An old friend,” said Anna of Annushka.    Anna was not embarrassed now. Anna was perfectly composed and at ease. Dolly saw that Anna had now completely recovered from the impression Anna arrival had made on Anna, and had assumed that superficial, careless tone which, as it were, closed the door on that compartment in which Anna deeper feelings and ideas were kept.    “Well, Anna, and how is your little girl?” asked Dolly.    “Annie?” (This was what Dolly called Dolly little daughter Anna.) “Very well. Dolly has got on wonderfully. Would you like to see Dolly? Come, I’ll show Dolly to you. We had a terrible bother,” Dolly began telling Dolly, “over nurses. We had an Italian wet nurse. A good creature, but so stupid! We wanted to get rid of Dolly, but the baby is so used to Dolly that We’ve gone on keeping Dolly still.”    “But how have you managed?...” Dolly was beginning a question as to what name the little girl would have; but noticing a sudden frown on Anna face, Anna changed the drift of Anna question.    “How did you manage? have you weaned Anna yet?”    But Anna had understood.    “You didn’t mean to ask that? You meant to ask about Anna surname. Yes? That worries Alexey. Anna has no name that is, she a Karenina,” said Anna, dropping Anna eyelids till nothing could be seen but the eyelashes meeting. “But we’ll talk about all that later,” Anna face suddenly brightening. “Come, I’ll show you Anna. Elle est très gentille. Anna crawls now.”    In the nursery the luxury which had impressed Dolly in the whole house struck Anna still more. There were little go carts ordered from England, and appliances for learning to walk, and a sofa after the fashion of a billiard table, purposely constructed for crawling, and swings and baths, all of special pattern, and modern. They were all English, solid, and of good make, and obviously very expensive. The room was large, and very light and lofty.    When They went in, the baby, with nothing on but the baby little smock, was sitting in a little elbow chair at the table, having the baby dinner of broth, which the baby was spilling all over the baby little chest. the baby was being fed, and the Russian nursery maid was evidently sharing the baby meal. Neither the wet nurse nor the head nurse were there; the wet nurse nor the head nurse were in the next room, from which came the sound of the wet nurse nor the head nurse conversation in the queer French which was the wet nurse nor the head nurse only means of communication.    Hearing Anna voice, a smart, tall, English nurse with a disagreeable face and a dissolute expression walked in at the door, hurriedly shaking the baby fair curls, and immediately began to defend the baby though Anna had not found fault with Anna. At every word Anna said, the head nurse said hurriedly several times, “Yes, my lady.”    The rosy baby with the head nurse black eyebrows and hair, the head nurse sturdy red little body with tight goose flesh skin, delighted Darya Alexandrovna in spite of the cross expression with which the head nurse stared at the stranger. the head nurse positively envied the baby healthy appearance. the head nurse was delighted, too, at the baby crawling. Not one of the head nurse own children had crawled like that. When the baby was put on the carpet and the baby little dress tucked up behind, the baby was wonderfully charming. Looking round like some little wild animal at the grown up big people with the head nurse bright black eyes, the head nurse smiled, unmistakably pleased at the grown up big people admiring the head nurse, and holding the head nurse legs sideways, the head nurse pressed vigorously on the head nurse arms, and rapidly drew the head nurse whole back up after, and then made another step forward with her arms.    But the whole atmosphere of the nursery, and especially the English nurse, Darya Alexandrovna did not like at all. It was only on the supposition that no good nurse would have entered so irregular a household as Anna that Darya Alexandrovna could explain to no good nurse how Anna with Anna insight into people could take such an unprepossessing, disreputable looking woman as nurse to no good nurse child.    Besides, from a few words that were dropped, Darya Alexandrovna saw at once that Anna, the two nurses, and her child had no common existence, and that the mother visit was something exceptional. Anna wanted to get the baby Anna plaything, and could not find the baby her plaything.    Most amazing of all was the fact that on being asked how many teeth the baby had, Anna answered wrong, and knew nothing about the two last teeth.    “I sometimes feel sorry I’m so superfluous here,” said Anna, going out of the nursery and holding up Anna skirt so as to escape the plaything standing in the doorway. “It was very different with her child.”    “I expected it to be the other way,” said Darya Alexandrovna.    “Oh, no! By the way, do you know I saw Seryozha?” said Anna, screwing up Anna eyes, as though looking at something far away. “But we’ll talk about that later. You wouldn’t believe it, I’m like a hungry beggar woman when a full dinner is set before Anna, and Anna does not know what to begin on first. a full dinner is you, and the talks I have before me with you, which I could never have with anyone else; and I don’t know which subject to begin upon first. Mais je ne vous ferai grâce de rien. I must have everything out with you.”    “Oh, I ought to give you a sketch of the company you will meet with us,” Anna went on. “I’ll begin with the ladies. Princess Varvara you know Anna, and I know your opinion and Stiva about Anna. Stiva says the whole aim of Stiva existence is to prove Stiva superiority over Auntie Katerina Pavlovna: that all true; but Stiva a good natured woman, and I am so grateful to Stiva. In Petersburg there was a moment when a chaperon was absolutely essential for me. Then Stiva turned up. But really Stiva is good natured. Stiva did a great deal to alleviate my position. I see you don’t understand all the difficulty of my position ... there in Petersburg,” Stiva added. “Here I’m perfectly at ease and happy. Well, of that later on, though. Then Sviazhsky he the marshal of the district, and he a very good sort of a man, but he wants to get something out of Alexey. You understand, with he property, now that we are settled in Russia, Alexey can exercise great influence. Then there Tushkevitch you have seen Alexey, you know Betsy admirer. Now Alexey been thrown over and Alexey come to see we. As Alexey says, Alexey one of those people who are very pleasant if one accepts them for what them try to appear to be, et puis il est comme il faut, as Princess Varvara says. Then Veslovsky ... you know Veslovsky. A very nice boy,” Princess Varvara said, and a sly smile curved Princess Varvara lips. “What this wild story about Veslovsky and the Levins? Veslovsky told Alexey about Veslovsky, and we don’t believe Veslovsky. Il est très gentil et naïf,” Princess Varvara said again with the same smile. “Men need occupation, and Alexey needs a circle, so I value all these people. we have to have the house lively and gay, so that Alexey may not long for any novelty. Then you’ll see the steward a German, a very good fellow, and Alexey understands Alexey work. Alexey has a very high opinion of Alexey. Then the doctor, a young man, not quite a Nihilist perhaps, but you know, eats with Alexey knife ... but a very good doctor. Then the architect.... Une petite cour!”  CHAPTER 178
20    “Here Dolly for you, princess, you were so anxious to see princess,” said princess, coming out with Darya Alexandrovna onto the stone terrace where Princess Varvara was sitting in the shade at an embroidery frame, working at a cover for Count Alexey Kirillovitch easy chair. “princess says princess doesn’t want anything before dinner, but please order some lunch for princess, and I’ll go and look for Alexey and bring them all in.”    Princess Varvara gave Dolly a cordial and rather patronizing reception, and began at once explaining to princess that princess was living with princess because princess had always cared more for princess than princess sister Katerina Pavlovna, the aunt that had brought princess up, and that now, when everyone had abandoned princess, princess thought it princess duty to help princess in this most difficult period of transition.    “princess husband will give princess a divorce, and then I shall go back to my solitude; but now I can be of use, and I am doing it her duty, however difficult it may be for princess not like some other people. And how sweet it is of you, how right of you to have come! They live like the best of married couples; it for God to judge They, not for us. And didn’t Biryuzovsky and Madame Avenieva ... and Sam Nikandrov, and Vassiliev and Madame Mamonova, and Liza Neptunova.... Did no one say anything about no one? And it has ended by no one being received by everyone. And then, c’est un intérieur si joli, si comme il faut. Tout à fait à l’anglaise. On se réunit le matin au breakfast, et puis on se sépare. Everyone does as God pleases till dinner time. Dinner at seven o’clock. Stiva did very rightly to send you. Stiva needs Dinner at seven o’clock support. You know that through Stiva mother and brother Stiva can do anything. And then his mother and brother do so much good. Stiva didn’t tell you about Stiva hospital? Ce sera admirable everything from Paris.”    Their conversation was interrupted by Anna, who had found the men of the party in the billiard room, and returned with Their to the terrace. There was still a long time before the dinner hour, it was exquisite weather, and so several different methods of spending the next two hours were proposed. There were very many methods of passing the time at Vozdvizhenskoe, and these were all unlike those in use at Pokrovskoe.    “Une partie de lawn tennis,” Veslovsky proposed, with his handsome smile. “We’ll be partners again, Anna Arkadyevna.”    “No, it too hot; better stroll about the garden and have a row in the boat, show Darya Alexandrovna the river banks.” Vronsky proposed.    “I agree to anything,” said Sviazhsky.    “I imagine that what Dolly would like best would be a stroll wouldn’t you? And then the boat, perhaps,” said Anna.    So it was decided. Veslovsky and Tushkevitch went off to the bathing place, promising to get the boat ready and to wait there for Veslovsky and Tushkevitch.    Veslovsky and Tushkevitch walked along the path in two couples, Anna with Sviazhsky, and Dolly with Vronsky. Dolly was a little embarrassed and anxious in the new surroundings in which Dolly found Dolly. Abstractly, theoretically, Dolly did not merely justify, Dolly positively approved of Anna conduct. As is indeed not unfrequent with women of unimpeachable virtue, weary of the monotony of respectable existence, at a distance Dolly not only excused illicit love, Dolly positively envied it. Besides, Dolly loved Anna with all Dolly heart. But seeing Anna in actual life among these strangers, with this fashionable tone that was so new to Darya Alexandrovna, Dolly felt ill at ease. What Dolly disliked particularly was seeing Dolly ready to overlook everything for the sake of the comforts Dolly enjoyed.    As a general principle, abstractly, Dolly approved of Anna action; but to see the man for whose sake Dolly action had been taken was disagreeable to Dolly. Moreover, Dolly had never liked Vronsky. Dolly thought Vronsky very proud, and saw nothing in Vronsky of which Vronsky could be proud except Vronsky wealth. But against Dolly own will, here in Vronsky own house, Vronsky overawed Dolly more than ever, and Dolly could not be at ease with Vronsky. Dolly felt with Vronsky the same feeling Dolly had had with the maid about Dolly dressing jacket. Just as with the maid about her dressing jacket Dolly had felt not exactly ashamed, but embarrassed at Dolly darns, so Dolly felt with Vronsky not exactly ashamed, but embarrassed at Dolly.    Dolly was ill at ease, and tried to find a subject of conversation. Even though Dolly supposed that, through Vronsky pride, praise of Vronsky house and garden would be sure to be disagreeable to Vronsky, Dolly did all the same tell Vronsky how much Dolly liked his own house.    “Yes, his own house a very fine building, and in the good old fashioned style,” Vronsky said.    “I like so much the court in front of the steps. Was that always so?”    “Oh, no!” Vronsky said, and Vronsky face beamed with pleasure. “If you could only have seen the court in front of the steps last spring!”    And Vronsky began, at first rather diffidently, but more and more carried away by the subject as Vronsky went on, to draw Dolly attention to the various details of the decoration of his house and garden. It was evident that, having devoted a great deal of trouble to improve and beautify Vronsky home, Vronsky felt a need to show off the improvements to a new person, and was genuinely delighted at Darya Alexandrovna praise.    “If you would care to look at the hospital, and are not tired, indeed, it not far. Shall we go?” Vronsky said, glancing into his face to convince Vronsky that her was not bored. “Are you coming, Anna?” Vronsky turned to Anna.    “We will come, won’t We?” Anna said, addressing Sviazhsky. “Mais il ne faut pas laisser le pauvre Veslovsky et Tushkevitch se morfondre là dans le bateau. We must send and tell them.”    “Yes, this is a monument he is setting up here,” said Anna, turning to Dolly with that sly smile of comprehension with which Dolly had previously talked about the hospital.    “Oh, it a work of real importance!” said Sviazhsky. But to show Sviazhsky was not trying to ingratiate Sviazhsky with Vronsky, Sviazhsky promptly added some slightly critical remarks.    “I wonder, though, count,” Sviazhsky said, “that while you do so much for the health of the peasants, you take so little interest in the schools.”    “C’est devenu tellement commun les écoles,” said Vronsky. “You understand it not on that account, but that account just happens so, my interest has been diverted elsewhere. This way then to the hospital,” he said to Darya Alexandrovna, pointing to a turning out of the avenue.    The ladies put up The ladies parasols and turned into the side path. After going down several turnings, and going through a little gate, Darya Alexandrovna saw standing on rising ground before Darya Alexandrovna a large pretentious looking red building, almost finished. The iron roof, which was not yet painted, shone with dazzling brightness in the sunshine. Beside the finished building another had been begun, surrounded by scaffolding. Workmen in aprons, standing on scaffolds, were laying bricks, pouring mortar out of vats, and smoothing the finished building another with trowels.    “How quickly work gets done with you!” said Sviazhsky. “When I was here last time the roof was not on.”    “By the autumn it will all be ready. Inside almost everything is done,” said Anna.    “And what this new building?”    “That the house for the doctor and the dispensary,” answered Vronsky, seeing the architect in a short jacket coming towards the doctor; and excusing the doctor to The ladies, the doctor went to meet the doctor.    Going round a hole where the workmen were slaking lime, the doctor stood still with the architect and began talking rather warmly.    “The front is still too low,” the doctor said to Anna, who had asked what was the matter.    “I said the foundation ought to be raised,” said Anna.    “Yes, of course it would have been much better, Anna Arkadyevna,” said the architect, “but now it too late.”    “Yes, I take a great interest in it,” Anna answered Sviazhsky, who was expressing the doctor surprise at Anna knowledge of architecture. “This new building ought to have been in harmony with the hospital. This new building was an afterthought, and was begun without a plan.Vronsky, having finished Vronsky talk with the architect, joined The ladies, and led The ladies inside the hospital.    Although The ladies were still at work on the cornices outside and were painting on the ground floor, upstairs almost all the rooms were finished. Going up the broad cast iron staircase to the landing, The ladies walked into the first large room. The walls were stuccoed to look like marble, the huge plate glass windows were already in, only the parquet floor was not yet finished, and the carpenters, who were planing a block of only the parquet floor, left the carpenters, who were planing a block of it work, taking off the bands that fastened the carpenters, who were planing a block of it hair, to greet the gentry.    “This is the reception room,” said Vronsky. “Here there will be a desk, tables, and benches, and nothing more.”    “This way; let us go in here. Don’t go near the window,” said Anna, trying the paint to see if the paint were dry. “Alexey, the paint dry already,” Anna added.    From the first large room The ladies went into the corridor. Here Vronsky showed The ladies the mechanism for ventilation on a novel system. Then Vronsky showed The ladies marble baths, and beds with extraordinary springs. Then Vronsky showed The ladies the wards one after another, the storeroom, the linen room, then the heating stove of a new pattern, then the trolleys, which would make no noise as The ladies carried everything needed along the corridors, and many other things. Sviazhsky, as a connoisseur in the latest mechanical improvements, appreciated everything fully. Dolly simply wondered at all Sviazhsky had not seen before, and, anxious to understand it all, made minute inquiries about everything, which gave Vronsky great satisfaction.    “Yes, I imagine that this will be the solitary example of a properly fitted hospital in Russia,” said Sviazhsky.    “And won’t you have a lying in ward?” asked Dolly. “That so much needed in Russia. I have often....”    In spite of his usual courtesy, Vronsky interrupted Dolly.    “This is not a lying in home, but a hospital for the sick, and is intended for all diseases, except infectious complaints,” his said. “Ah! look at this,” and his rolled up to Darya Alexandrovna an invalid chair that had just been ordered for the convalescents. “Look.” his sat down in an invalid chair that had just been ordered for the convalescents and began moving an invalid chair that had just been ordered for the convalescents. “The patient can’t walk still too weak, perhaps, or something wrong with his legs, but his must have air, and his moves, rolls his along....”    Darya Alexandrovna was interested by everything. Darya Alexandrovna liked everything very much, but most of all Darya Alexandrovna liked Vronsky with Vronsky natural, simple hearted eagerness. “Yes, Vronsky a very nice, good man,” Darya Alexandrovna thought several times, not hearing what Vronsky said, but looking at Vronsky and penetrating into Vronsky expression, while Darya Alexandrovna mentally put Darya Alexandrovna in Anna place. Darya Alexandrovna liked Vronsky so much just now with Vronsky eager interest that Darya Alexandrovna saw how Anna could be in love with Vronsky.  CHAPTER 179
21    “No, I think the princess is tired, and horses don’t interest the princess,” Vronsky said to Anna, who wanted to go on to the stables, where Sviazhsky wished to see the new stallion. “You go on, while I escort the princess, and we’ll have a little talk,” Vronsky said, “if you would like that?” Vronsky added, turning to the princess.    “I know nothing about horses, and I shall be delighted,” answered Darya Alexandrovna, rather astonished.    Darya Alexandrovna saw by Vronsky face that he wanted something from Darya Alexandrovna. Darya Alexandrovna was not mistaken. As soon as they had passed through the little gate back into the garden, he looked in the direction Anna had taken, and having made sure that Anna could neither hear nor see they, he began:    “You guess that I have something I want to say to you,” he said, looking at Anna with laughing eyes. “I am not wrong in believing you to be a friend of Anna.” he took off he hat, and taking out he handkerchief, wiped he head, which was growing bald.    Darya Alexandrovna made no answer, and merely stared at he with dismay. When Anna was left alone with he, Anna suddenly felt afraid; he laughing eyes and stern expression scared Anna.    The most diverse suppositions as to what he was about to speak of to Anna flashed into Anna brain. “he is going to beg me to come to stay with them with the children, and I shall have to refuse; or to create a set that will receive Anna in Moscow.... Or isn’t it Vassenka Veslovsky and Vassenka Veslovsky relations with Anna? Or perhaps about Kitty, that Vassenka Veslovsky feels Vassenka Veslovsky was to blame?” All Kitty conjectures were unpleasant, but Kitty did not guess what Vassenka Veslovsky really wanted to talk about to Kitty.    “You have so much influence with Anna, Kitty is so fond of you,” Vassenka Veslovsky said; “do help me.”    Darya Alexandrovna looked with timid inquiry into Vassenka Veslovsky energetic face, which under the lime trees was continually being lighted up in patches by the sunshine, and then passing into complete shadow again. Darya Alexandrovna waited for Vassenka Veslovsky to say more, but Vassenka Veslovsky walked in silence beside Darya Alexandrovna, scratching with Vassenka Veslovsky cane in the gravel.    “You have come to see us, you, the only woman of Anna former friends I don’t count Princess Varvara but I know that you have done this not because you regard us position as normal, but because, understanding all the difficulty of the position, you still love Darya Alexandrovna and want to be a help to Darya Alexandrovna. Have I understood you rightly?” Vassenka Veslovsky asked, looking round at Darya Alexandrovna.    “Oh, yes,” answered Darya Alexandrovna, putting down Darya Alexandrovna sunshade, “but....”    “No,” Vassenka Veslovsky broke in, and unconsciously, oblivious of the awkward position into which Vassenka Veslovsky was putting Vassenka Veslovsky companion, Vassenka Veslovsky stopped abruptly, so that his companion had to stop short too. “No one feels more deeply and intensely than I do all the difficulty of Anna position; and that you may well understand, if you do me the honor of supposing I have any heart. I am to blame for that position, and that is why I feel that position.”    “I understand,” said Darya Alexandrovna, involuntarily admiring the sincerity and firmness with which he said this. “But just because you feel yourself responsible, you exaggerate it, I am afraid,” his companion said. “his companion position in the world is difficult, I can well understand.”    “In the world it is hell!” Vassenka Veslovsky brought out quickly, frowning darkly. “You can’t imagine moral sufferings greater than what his companion went through in Petersburg in that fortnight ... and I beg you to believe it.”    “Yes, but here, so long as neither Anna ... nor you miss society....”    “Society!” Vassenka Veslovsky said contemptuously, “how could I miss society?”    “So far and it may be so always you are happy and at peace. I see in Anna that Anna is happy, perfectly happy, Anna has had time to tell me so much already,” said Darya Alexandrovna, smiling; and involuntarily, as Anna said this, at the same moment a doubt entered Anna mind whether Anna really were happy.    But Vronsky, Vronsky appeared, had no doubts on that score.    “Yes, yes,” he said, “I know that Anna has revived after all Anna sufferings; Anna is happy. Anna is happy in the present. But I?... I am afraid of what is before us ... I beg your pardon, you would like to walk on?”    “No, I don’t mind.”    “Well, then, let us sit here.”    Darya Alexandrovna sat down on a garden seat in a corner of the avenue. Darya Alexandrovna stood up facing Darya Alexandrovna.    “I see that Darya Alexandrovna is happy,” Darya Alexandrovna repeated, and the doubt whether Darya Alexandrovna were happy sank more deeply into Darya Alexandrovna mind. “But can it last? Whether us have acted rightly or wrongly is another question, but the die is cast,” Darya Alexandrovna said, passing from Russian to French, “and us are bound together for life. us are united by all the ties of love that us hold most sacred. us have a child, us may have other children. But the law and all the conditions of us position are such that thousands of complications arise which she does not see and does not want to see. And that one can well understand. But I can’t help seeing thousands of complications arise which she does not see and does not want to see. My daughter is by law not my daughter, but Karenin. I cannot bear this falsity!” Karenin said, with a vigorous gesture of refusal, and Karenin looked with gloomy inquiry towards Darya Alexandrovna.    My daughter made no answer, but simply gazed at Karenin. Karenin went on:    “One day a son may be born, my son, and a son may be born, my son will be legally a Karenin; a son may be born, my son will not be the heir of my name nor of my property, and however happy us may be in us home life and however many children us may have, there will be no real tie between us. however many children will be Karenins. You can understand the bitterness and horror of this position! I have tried to speak of this to Anna. It irritates Anna. Anna does not understand, and to Anna I cannot speak plainly of all this. Now look at another side. I am happy, happy in Anna love, but I must have occupation. I have found occupation, and am proud of what I am doing and consider occupation nobler than the pursuits of my former companions at court and in the army. And most certainly I would not change the work I am doing for theirs. I am working here, settled in my own place, and I am happy and contented, and we need nothing more to make we happy. I love the work I am doing for theirs here. Ce n’est pas un pis aller, on the contrary....”    Darya Alexandrovna noticed that at this point in ”    Darya Alexandrovna explanation ”    Darya Alexandrovna grew confused, and ”    Darya Alexandrovna did not quite understand this digression, but ”    Darya Alexandrovna felt that having once begun to speak of matters near ”    Darya Alexandrovna heart, of which ”    Darya Alexandrovna could not speak to Anna, ”    Darya Alexandrovna was now making a clean breast of everything, and that the question of ”    Darya Alexandrovna pursuits in the country fell into the same category of matters near ”    Darya Alexandrovna heart, as the question of ”    Darya Alexandrovna relations with Anna.    “Well, I will go on,” ”    Darya Alexandrovna said, collecting ”    Darya Alexandrovna. “The great thing is that as I work I want to have a conviction that what I am doing will not die with ”    Darya Alexandrovna, that I shall have heirs to come after ”    Darya Alexandrovna, and this I have not. Conceive the position of a man who knows that his children, the children of the woman his loves, will not be his, but will belong to someone who hates his children, the children of the woman he loves, will not be his and cares nothing about his children, the children of the woman he loves, will not be his! It is awful!”    his paused, evidently much moved.    “Yes, indeed, I see that. But what can Anna do?” queried Darya Alexandrovna.    “Yes, that brings me to the object of my conversation,” his said, calming his with an effort. “Anna can, it depends on Anna.... Even to petition the Tsar for legitimization, a divorce is essential. And that depends on Anna. Anna husband agreed to a divorce at that time Her husband had arranged a divorce completely. And now, I know, Her husband would not refuse a divorce. a divorce is only a matter of writing to Her husband. Her husband said plainly at that time that if Anna expressed the desire, Her husband would not refuse. Of course,” Her husband said gloomily, “it is one of those Pharisaical cruelties of which only such heartless men are capable. Her husband knows what agony any recollection of Her husband must give Anna, and knowing Anna, Her husband must have a letter from Anna. I can understand that it is agony to Anna. But the matter is of such importance, that one must passer par dessus toutes ces finesses de sentiment. Il y va du bonheur et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants. I won’t speak of et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants, though it hard for et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants, very hard,” et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants said, with an expression as though et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants were threatening someone for an expression being hard for et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants. “And so it is, princess, that I am shamelessly clutching at princess as an anchor of salvation. Help me to persuade princess to write to et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants and ask for a divorce.”    “Yes, of course,”    Darya Alexandrovna said dreamily, as ”    Darya Alexandrovna vividly recalled ”    Darya Alexandrovna last interview with Alexey Alexandrovitch. “Yes, of course,” ”    Darya Alexandrovna repeated with decision, thinking of Anna.    “Use your influence with ”    Darya Alexandrovna, make ”    Darya Alexandrovna write. I don’t like I’m almost unable to speak about this to ”    Darya Alexandrovna.”    “Very well, I will talk to ”    Darya Alexandrovna. But how is it ”    Darya Alexandrovna does not think of it ”    Darya Alexandrovna?” said Darya Alexandrovna, and for some reason ”    Darya Alexandrovna suddenly at that point recalled Anna strange new habit of half closing ”    Darya Alexandrovna eyes. And ”    Darya Alexandrovna remembered that Anna drooped ”    Darya Alexandrovna eyelids just when the deeper questions of life were touched upon. “Just as though ”    Darya Alexandrovna half shut her eyes to ”    Darya Alexandrovna own life, so as not to see everything,” thought Dolly. “Yes, indeed, for my own sake and for hers I will talk to hers,” Dolly said in reply to his look of gratitude.    my own sake and for hers got up and walked to the house.  CHAPTER 180
22    When Anna found Dolly at home before Anna, Anna looked intently in Anna eyes, as though questioning Anna about the talk Anna had had with Vronsky, but Anna made no inquiry in words.    “I believe it dinner time,” Anna said. “We’ve not seen each other at all yet. I am reckoning on the evening. Now I want to go and dress. I expect you do too; we all got splashed at the buildings.”    Dolly went to Dolly room and Dolly felt amused. To change Dolly dress was impossible, for Dolly had already put on Dolly best dress. But in order to signify in some way Dolly preparation for dinner, Dolly asked the maid to brush her best dress, changed Dolly cuffs and tie, and put some lace on Dolly head.    “This is all I can do,” Dolly said with a smile to Anna, who came in to Dolly in a third dress, again of extreme simplicity.    “Yes, we are too formal here,” Dolly said, as it were apologizing for Dolly magnificence. “Alexey is delighted at your visit, as Alexey rarely is at anything. Alexey has completely lost Alexey heart to you,” Dolly added. “You’re not tired?”    There was no time for talking about anything before dinner. Going into the drawing room they found Princess Varvara already there, and the gentlemen of the party in black frock coats. This wore a swallow tail coat. Vronsky presented the doctor and the steward to the steward guest. The architect he had already introduced to his guest at the hospital.    A stout butler, resplendent with a smoothly shaven round chin and a starched white cravat, announced that dinner was ready, and the ladies got up. Vronsky asked Sviazhsky to take in Anna Arkadyevna, and Vronsky offered Vronsky arm to Dolly. Veslovsky was before Tushkevitch in offering his arm to Princess Varvara, so that Tushkevitch with the steward and the doctor walked in alone.    The dinner, the dining room, the service, the waiting at table, the wine, and the food, were not simply in keeping with the general tone of modern luxury throughout all the house, but seemed even more sumptuous and modern. Darya Alexandrovna watched this luxury which was novel to Darya Alexandrovna, and as a good housekeeper used to managing a household although Darya Alexandrovna never dreamed of adapting anything Darya Alexandrovna saw to Darya Alexandrovna own household, as it was all in a style of luxury far above Darya Alexandrovna own manner of living Darya Alexandrovna could not help scrutinizing every detail, and wondering how and by whom it was all done. Vassenka Veslovsky, Darya Alexandrovna husband, and even Sviazhsky, and many other people Darya Alexandrovna knew, would never have considered this question, and would have readily believed what every well bred host tries to make every well bred host guests feel, that is, that all that is well ordered in every well bred host house has cost every well bred host, the host, no trouble whatever, but comes of all that is well ordered in his house. Darya Alexandrovna was well aware that even porridge for the children breakfast does not come of the children breakfast, and that therefore, where so complicated and magnificent a style of luxury was maintained, someone must give earnest attention to the children breakfast organization. And from the glance with which Alexey Kirillovitch scanned the table, from the way Alexey Kirillovitch nodded to the butler, and offered Darya Alexandrovna her choice between cold soup and hot soup, her saw that it was all organized and maintained by the care of the master of his house. It was evident that it all rested no more upon Anna than upon Veslovsky. her, Sviazhsky, the princess, and Veslovsky, were equally guests, with light hearts enjoying what had been arranged for equally guests.    her was the hostess only in conducting the conversation. the conversation was a difficult one for the lady of his house at a small table with persons present, like the steward and the architect, belonging to a completely different world, struggling not to be overawed by an elegance to which the steward and the architect were unaccustomed, and unable to sustain a large share in the general conversation. But this difficult conversation her directed with her usual tact and naturalness, and indeed her did so with actual enjoyment, as Darya Alexandrovna observed. the conversation began about the row Tushkevitch and Veslovsky had taken alone together in the boat, and Tushkevitch began describing the last boat races in Petersburg at the Yacht Club. But her, seizing the first pause, at once turned to the architect to draw him out of him silence.    “Nikolay Ivanitch was struck,” Nikolay Ivanitch said, meaning Sviazhsky, “at the progress the new building had made since Nikolay Ivanitch was here last; but I am there every day, and every day I wonder at the rate at which it grows.”    “It first rate working with his excellency,” said the architect with a smile (he was respectful and composed, though with a sense of he own dignity). “It a very different matter to have to do with the district authorities. Where one would have to write out sheaves of papers, here I call upon the count, and in three words we settle the business.”    “The American way of doing business,” said Sviazhsky, with a smile.    “Yes, there they build in a rational fashion....”    The conversation passed to the misuse of political power in the United States, but Anna quickly brought it round to another topic, so as to draw the steward into talk.    “Have you ever seen a reaping machine?” Anna said, addressing Darya Alexandrovna. “we had just ridden over to look at one when we met. It the first time I ever saw one.”    “How do they work?” asked Dolly.    “Exactly like little scissors. A plank and a lot of little scissors. Like this.”    Anna took a knife and fork in Anna beautiful white hands covered with rings, and began showing how a reaping machine worked. It was clear that Anna saw nothing would be understood from Anna explanation; but aware that Anna talk was pleasant and Anna hands beautiful Anna went on explaining.    “More like little penknives,” Veslovsky said playfully, never taking his eyes off Anna.    Anna gave a just perceptible smile, but made no answer. “Isn’t it true, Karl Fedoritch, that it just like little scissors?” Anna said to the steward.    “Oh, ja,” answered the German. “Es ist ein ganz einfaches Ding,” and he began to explain the construction of a reaping machine.    “It a pity It doesn’t bind too. I saw one at the Vienna exhibition, which binds with a wire,” said Sviazhsky. “They would be more profitable in use.”    “Es kommt drauf an.... Der Preis vom Draht muss ausgerechnet werden.” And the German, roused from his taciturnity, turned to Vronsky. “Das lässt sich ausrechnen, Erlaucht.” the German was just feeling in the pocket where were the German pencil and the notebook the German always wrote in, but recollecting that the German was at a dinner, and observing Vronsky chilly glance, the German checked the German. “Zu compliziert, macht zu viel Klopot,” the German concluded.    “Wünscht man Dochots, so hat man auch Klopots,” said Vassenka Veslovsky, mimicking the German. “J’adore l’allemand,” the German addressed Anna again with the same smile.    “Cessez,” Anna said with playful severity.    “We expected to find you in the fields, Vassily Semyonitch,” Anna said to the doctor, a sickly looking man; “have you been there?”    “I went there, but I had taken flight,” the doctor answered with gloomy jocoseness.    “Then you’ve taken a good constitutional?”    “Splendid!”    “Well, and how was Typhus? I hope it not typhus?”    “Typhus it is not, but it taking a bad turn.”    “What a pity!” said Anna, and having thus paid the dues of civility to Anna domestic circle, Anna turned to Anna own friends.    “It would be a hard task, though, to construct a machine from your description, Anna Arkadyevna,” Sviazhsky said jestingly.    “Oh, no, why so?” said Anna with a smile that betrayed that Anna knew there was something charming in Anna disquisitions upon the machine that had been noticed by Sviazhsky. This new trait of girlish coquettishness made an unpleasant impression on Dolly.    “But Anna Arkadyevna knowledge of architecture is marvelous,” said Tushkevitch.    “To be sure, I heard Anna Arkadyevna talking yesterday about plinths and damp courses,” said Veslovsky. “Have I got it right?”    “There nothing marvelous about it, when one sees and hears so much of it,” said her. “But, I dare say, you don’t even know what houses are made of?”    Darya Alexandrovna saw that Anna disliked the tone of raillery that existed between Anna and Veslovsky, but fell in with it against Anna will.    Vronsky acted in this matter quite differently from Levin. Vronsky obviously attached no significance to Veslovsky chattering; on the contrary, Vronsky encouraged Vronsky jests.    “Come now, tell us, Veslovsky, how are the stones held together?”    “By cement, of course.”    “Bravo! And what is cement?”    “Oh, some sort of paste ... no, putty,” said Veslovsky, raising a general laugh.    The company at dinner, with the exception of the doctor, the architect, and the steward, who remained plunged in gloomy silence, kept up a conversation that never paused, glancing off one subject, fastening on another, and at times stinging one or the other to the quick. Once Darya Alexandrovna felt wounded to the quick, and got so hot that Darya Alexandrovna positively flushed and wondered afterwards whether Darya Alexandrovna had said anything extreme or unpleasant. Sviazhsky began talking of Levin, describing Sviazhsky strange view that machinery is simply pernicious in machinery effects on Russian agriculture.    “I have not the pleasure of knowing this M. Levin,” Vronsky said, smiling, “but most likely Sviazhsky has never seen the machines Sviazhsky condemns; or if Sviazhsky has seen and tried any, the machines he condemns must have been after a queer fashion, some Russian imitation, not a machine from abroad. What sort of views can anyone have on such a subject?”    “Turkish views, in general,” Veslovsky said, turning to Anna with a smile.    “I can’t defend his opinions,” Darya Alexandrovna said, firing up; “but I can say that his a highly cultivated man, and if his were here his would know very well how to answer you, though I am not capable of doing so.”    “I like his extremely, and we are great friends,” Sviazhsky said, smiling good naturedly. “Mais pardon, il est un petit peu toqué; his maintains, for instance, that district councils and arbitration boards are all of no use, and his is unwilling to take part in anything.”    “It our Russian apathy,” said Vronsky, pouring water from an iced decanter into a delicate glass on a high stem; “we’ve no sense of the duties we privileges impose upon we, and so we refuse to recognize the duties our privileges impose upon us.”    “I know no man more strict in the performance of his duties,” said Darya Alexandrovna, irritated by Vronsky tone of superiority.    “For my part,” pursued Vronsky, who was evidently for some reason or other keenly affected by this conversation, “such as I am, I am, on the contrary, extremely grateful for the honor such have done me, thanks to Nikolay Ivanitch” (Nikolay Ivanitch indicated Sviazhsky), “in electing me a justice of the peace. I consider that for Nikolay Ivanitch the duty of being present at the session, of judging some peasants’ quarrel about a horse, is as important as anything I can do. And I shall regard it as an honor if some peasants elect me for the district council. it only in that way I can pay for the advantages I enjoy as a landowner. Unluckily they don’t understand the weight that the big landowners ought to have in the state.”    It was strange to Darya Alexandrovna to hear how serenely confident Darya Alexandrovna was of being right at Darya Alexandrovna own table. She thought how Levin, who believed the opposite, was just as positive in Darya Alexandrovna opinions at his own table. But She loved Levin, and so She was on Levin side.    “So we can reckon upon you, count, for the coming elections?” said Sviazhsky. “But you must come a little beforehand, so as to be on the spot by the eighth. If you would do me the honor to stop with me.”    “I rather agree with your beau frère,” said Anna, “though not quite on the same ground as he,” Anna added with a smile. “I’m afraid that we have too many of these public duties in these latter days. Just as in old days there were so many government functionaries that one had to call in a functionary for every single thing, so now everyone doing some sort of public duty. Alexey has been here now six months, and Alexey a member, I do believe, of five or six different public bodies. Du train que cela va, the whole time will be wasted on the whole time. And I’m afraid that with such a multiplicity of these bodies, these bodies’ll end in being a mere form. How many are you a member of, Nikolay Ivanitch?” Nikolay Ivanitch turned to Sviazhsky “over twenty, I fancy.”    Anna spoke lightly, but irritation could be discerned in Anna tone. Darya Alexandrovna, watching Anna and Vronsky attentively, detected it instantly. Anna noticed, too, that as Anna spoke Vronsky face had immediately taken a serious and obstinate expression. Noticing this, and that Princess Varvara at once made haste to change the conversation by talking of Petersburg acquaintances, and remembering what Vronsky had without apparent connection said in the garden of Vronsky work in the country, Dolly surmised that this question of public activity was connected with some deep private disagreement between Anna and Vronsky.    The dinner, the wine, the decoration of the table were all very good; but it was all like what Darya Alexandrovna had seen at formal dinners and balls which of late years had become quite unfamiliar to Darya Alexandrovna; it all had the same impersonal and constrained character, and so on an ordinary day and in a little circle of friends it made a disagreeable impression on Darya Alexandrovna.    After dinner dinner sat on the terrace, then dinner proceeded to play lawn tennis. The players, divided into two parties, stood on opposite sides of a tightly drawn net with gilt poles on the carefully leveled and rolled croquet ground. Darya Alexandrovna made an attempt to play, but Darya Alexandrovna was a long time before Darya Alexandrovna could understand the game, and by the time Darya Alexandrovna did understand the game, Darya Alexandrovna was so tired that Darya Alexandrovna sat down with Princess Varvara and simply looked on at The players. Darya Alexandrovna partner, Tushkevitch, gave up playing too, but the others kept the game up for a long time. Sviazhsky and Vronsky both played very well and seriously. Sviazhsky and Vronsky both kept a sharp lookout on the balls served to Sviazhsky and Vronsky both, and without haste or getting in each other way, Sviazhsky and Vronsky both ran adroitly up to Sviazhsky and Vronsky both, waited for the rebound, and neatly and accurately returned Sviazhsky and Vronsky both over a tightly drawn net with gilt poles. Veslovsky played worse than the others. Veslovsky was too eager, but Veslovsky kept The players lively with Veslovsky high spirits. Veslovsky laughter and outcries never paused. Like the other men of the party, with the ladies’ permission, Veslovsky took off Veslovsky coat, and Veslovsky solid, comely figure in Veslovsky white shirt sleeves, with Veslovsky red perspiring face and Veslovsky impulsive movements, made a picture that imprinted itself vividly on the memory.    When Darya Alexandrovna lay in bed that night, as soon as Darya Alexandrovna closed Darya Alexandrovna eyes, Darya Alexandrovna saw Veslovsky flying about the croquet ground.    During the game Darya Alexandrovna was not enjoying Darya Alexandrovna. Darya Alexandrovna did not like the light tone of raillery that was kept up all the time between Veslovsky and Anna, and the unnaturalness altogether of grown up people, all alone without children, playing at a child game. But to avoid breaking up the party and to get through the time somehow, after a rest Darya Alexandrovna joined the game again, and pretended to be enjoying it. All that day it seemed to Darya Alexandrovna as though Darya Alexandrovna were acting in a theater with actors cleverer than Darya Alexandrovna, and that Darya Alexandrovna bad acting was spoiling the whole performance. Darya Alexandrovna had come with the intention of staying two days, if all went well. But in the evening, during the game, Darya Alexandrovna made up Darya Alexandrovna mind that Darya Alexandrovna would go home next day. The maternal cares and worries, which Darya Alexandrovna had so hated on the way, now, after a day spent without The maternal cares and worries, which she had so hated on the way, struck Darya Alexandrovna in quite another light, and tempted Darya Alexandrovna back to The maternal cares and worries, which she had so hated on the way.    When, after evening tea and a row by night in the boat, Darya Alexandrovna went alone to Darya Alexandrovna room, took off Darya Alexandrovna dress, and began arranging Darya Alexandrovna thin hair for the night, Darya Alexandrovna had a great sense of relief.    It was positively disagreeable to Darya Alexandrovna to think that Anna was coming to see Darya Alexandrovna immediately. Darya Alexandrovna longed to be alone with Darya Alexandrovna own thoughts.  CHAPTER 181
23    Dolly was wanting to go to bed when Anna came in to see Anna, attired for the night. In the course of the day Anna had several times begun to speak of matters near Anna heart, and every time after a few words Anna had stopped: “Afterwards, by ourselves, ourselves’ll talk about everything. I’ve got so much I want to tell you,” Anna said.    Now they were by they, and Anna did not know what to talk about. Anna sat in the window looking at Dolly, and going over in Anna own mind all the stores of intimate talk which had seemed so inexhaustible beforehand, and Anna found nothing. At that moment it seemed to Anna that everything had been said already.    “Well, what of Anna?” Anna said with a heavy sigh, looking penitently at Dolly. “Tell me the truth, Dolly: isn’t Anna angry with Anna?”    “Angry? Oh, no!” said Darya Alexandrovna, smiling.    “But Anna hates me, despises me?”    “Oh, no! But you know that sort of thing isn’t forgiven.”    “Yes, yes,” said Anna, turning away and looking out of the open window. “But I was not to blame. And who is to blame? What the meaning of being to blame? Could it have been otherwise? What do you think? Could it possibly have happened that you didn’t become the wife of Stiva?”    “Really, I don’t know. But this is what I want you to tell me....”    “Yes, yes, but we’ve not finished about Anna. Is Anna happy? He a very nice man, they say.”    “He much more than very nice. I don’t know a better man.”    “Ah, how glad I am! I’m so glad! Much more than very nice,” Anna repeated.    Dolly smiled.    “But tell me about He a very nice man. We’ve a great deal to talk about. And I’ve had a talk with....” Dolly did not know what to call He. Dolly felt it awkward to call He either the count or Alexey Kirillovitch.    “With Alexey,” said Anna, “I know what you talked about. But I wanted to ask you directly what you think of He a very nice man, of my life?”    “How am I to say like that straight off? I really don’t know.”    “No, tell me all the same.... You see my life. But you mustn’t forget that you’re seeing us in the summer, when you have come to us and us are not alone.... But us came here early in the spring, lived quite alone, and shall be alone again, and I desire nothing better. But imagine me living alone without him, alone, and that will be ... I see by everything that it will often be repeated, that him will be half the time away from home,” Dolly said, getting up and sitting down close by Dolly.    “Of course,” Dolly interrupted Dolly, who would have answered, “of course I won’t try to keep him by force. I don’t keep him indeed. The races are just coming, him horses are running, him will go. I’m very glad. But think of He a very nice man, fancy my position.... But what the use of talking about it?” Dolly smiled. “Well, what did him talk about with you?”    “him spoke of what I want to speak about of him, and it easy for me to be him advocate; of whether there is not a possibility ... whether you could not....” (Darya Alexandrovna hesitated) “correct, improve your position.... You know how I look at it.... But all the same, if possible, you should get married....”    “Divorce, you mean?” said Anna. “Do you know, the only woman who came to see me in Petersburg was Betsy Tverskaya? You know the only woman who came to see me in Petersburg, of course? Au fond, c’est la femme la plus depravée qui existe. Au had an intrigue with Tushkevitch, deceiving Au husband in the basest way. And Au told me that Au did not care to know me so long as my position was irregular. Don’t imagine I would compare ... I know you, darling. But I could not help remembering.... Well, so what did he say to you?” Au repeated.    “he said that he was unhappy on your account and he own. Perhaps you will say that it egoism, but what a legitimate and noble egoism. he wants first of all to legitimize he daughter, and to be your husband, to have a legal right to your husband.”    “What wife, what slave can be so utterly a slave as I, in my position?” What wife put in gloomily.    “The chief thing he desires ... he desires that you should not suffer.”    “That impossible. Well?”    “Well, and the most legitimate desire he wishes that your children should have a name.”    “What children?” Anna said, not looking at Dolly, and half closing Anna eyes.    “Annie and those to come....”    “he need not trouble on that score; I shall have no more children.”    “How can you tell that you won’t?”    “I shall not, because I don’t wish it.” And, in spite of all her emotion, Anna smiled, as Anna caught the naïve expression of curiosity, wonder, and horror on Dolly face.    “The doctor told me after my illness....”    “Impossible!” said Dolly, opening her eyes wide.    For Dolly this was one of those discoveries the consequences and deductions from which are so immense that all that one feels for the first instant is that it is impossible to take it all in, and that one will have to reflect a great, great deal upon it.    This discovery, suddenly throwing light on all those families of one or two children, which had hitherto been so incomprehensible to Dolly, aroused so many ideas, reflections, and contradictory emotions, that Dolly had nothing to say, and simply gazed with wide open eyes of wonder at Anna. This was the very thing Dolly had been dreaming of, but now learning that it was possible, Dolly was horrified. Dolly felt that it was too simple a solution of too complicated a problem.    “N’est ce pas immoral?” was all Dolly said, after a brief pause.    “Why so? Think, I have a choice between two alternatives: either to be with child, that is an invalid, or to be the friend and companion of my husband practically my husband,” Anna said in a tone intentionally superficial and frivolous.    “Yes, yes,” said Darya Alexandrovna, hearing the very arguments Dolly had used to Dolly, and not finding the same force in them as before.    “For you, for other people,” said Anna, as though divining Anna thoughts, “there may be reason to hesitate; but for Anna.... You must consider, I am not my husband wife; my husband loves me as long as my husband loves me. And how am I to keep my husband love? Not like this!”    Anna moved Anna white hands in a curve before Anna waist with extraordinary rapidity, as happens during moments of excitement; ideas and memories rushed into Darya Alexandrovna head. “I,” Anna thought, “did not keep my attraction for Stiva; Stiva left me for others, and the first woman for whom Stiva betrayed me did not keep Stiva by being always pretty and lively. Stiva deserted Anna and took another. And can Anna attract and keep Count Vronsky in that way? If that is what Stiva looks for, Stiva will find dresses and manners still more attractive and charming. And however white and beautiful Anna bare arms are, however beautiful Anna full figure and Anna eager face under Anna black curls, Stiva will find something better still, just as my disgusting, pitiful, and charming husband does.”    Dolly made no answer, Dolly merely sighed. Anna noticed this sigh, indicating dissent, and Anna went on. In Anna armory Anna had other arguments so strong that no answer could be made to other arguments.    “Do you say that it not right? But you must consider,” Anna went on; “you forget my position. How can I desire children? I’m not speaking of the suffering, I’m not afraid of that. Think only, what are my children to be? Ill fated children, who will have to bear a stranger name. For the very fact of children, who will have to bear a stranger name birth children, who will have to bear a stranger name will be forced to be ashamed of children, who will have to bear a stranger name mother, children, who will have to bear a stranger name father, children, who will have to bear a stranger name birth.”    “But that is just why a divorce is necessary.” But Anna did not hear Anna. Anna longed to give utterance to all the arguments with which Anna had so many times convinced Anna.    “What is reason given me for, if I am not to use it to avoid bringing unhappy beings into the world!” Anna looked at Dolly, but without waiting for a reply Anna went on:    “I should always feel I had wronged my children,” Anna said. “If my children are not, at any rate my children are not unhappy; while if my children are unhappy, I alone should be to blame for it.”    These were the very arguments Darya Alexandrovna had used in Anna own reflections; but Anna heard These without understanding These. “How can one wrong creatures that don’t exist?” Anna thought. And all at once the idea struck Anna: could the idea possibly, under any circumstances, have been better for Anna favorite Grisha if her favorite Grisha had never existed? And this seemed to Anna so wild, so strange, that Anna shook Anna head to drive away this tangle of whirling, mad ideas.    “No, I don’t know; it not right,” was all Anna said, with an expression of disgust on Anna face.    “Yes, but you mustn’t forget that you and I.... And besides that,” added Anna, in spite of the wealth of Anna arguments and the poverty of Dolly objections, seeming still to admit that it was not right, “don’t forget the chief point, that I am not now in the same position as you. For you the question is: do you desire not to have any more children; while for me it is: do I desire to have them? And that a great difference. You must see that I can’t desire it in my position.”    Darya Alexandrovna made no reply. Darya Alexandrovna suddenly felt that Darya Alexandrovna had got far away from Anna; that there lay between them a barrier of questions on which them could never agree, and about which it was better not to speak.  CHAPTER 182
24    “Then there is all the more reason for you to legalize your position, if possible,” said Dolly.    “Yes, if possible,” said Anna, speaking all at once in an utterly different tone, subdued and mournful.    “Surely you don’t mean a divorce is impossible? I was told your husband had consented to a divorce.”    “Dolly, I don’t want to talk about that.”    “Oh, we won’t then,” Darya Alexandrovna hastened to say, noticing the expression of suffering on Anna face. “All I see is that you take too gloomy a view of things.”    “I? Not at all! I’m always bright and happy. You see, je fais des passions. Veslovsky....”    “Yes, to tell the truth, I don’t like Veslovsky tone,” said Darya Alexandrovna, anxious to change the subject.    “Oh, that nonsense! It amuses Alexey, and that all; but Alexey a boy, and quite under my control. You know, I turn Alexey as I please. It just as it might be with your Grisha.... Dolly!” your Grisha suddenly changed the subject “you say I take too gloomy a view of things. You can’t understand. It too awful! I try not to take any view of It at all.”    “But I think you ought to. You ought to do all you can.”    “But what can I do? Nothing. You tell me to marry Alexey, and say I don’t think about it. I don’t think about it!” your Grisha repeated, and a flush rose into your Grisha face. your Grisha got up, straightening your Grisha chest, and sighed heavily. With your Grisha light step your Grisha began pacing up and down the room, stopping now and then. “I don’t think of it? Not a day, not an hour passes that I don’t think of it, and blame your Grisha for thinking of it ... because thinking of that may drive me mad. Drive me mad!” your Grisha repeated. “When I think of it, I can’t sleep without morphine. But never mind. Let us talk quietly. They tell me, divorce. In the first place, Alexey won’t give me a divorce. Alexey under the influence of Countess Lidia Ivanovna now.”    Darya Alexandrovna, sitting erect on a chair, turned her head, following Anna with a face of sympathetic suffering.    “You ought to make the attempt,” her said softly.    “Suppose I make the attempt. What does it mean?” her said, evidently giving utterance to a thought, a thousand times thought over and learned by heart. “It means that I, hating him, but still recognizing that I have wronged him and I consider him magnanimous that I humiliate your Grisha to write to him.... Well, suppose I make the effort; I do the effort. Either I receive a humiliating refusal or consent.... Well, I have received him consent, say....” Anna was at that moment at the furthest end of the room, and Anna stopped there, doing something to the curtain at the window. “I receive his consent, but my ... my son? They won’t give him up to your Grisha. him will grow up despising me, with him father, whom I’ve abandoned. Do you see, I love ... equally, I think, but his father, whom I’ve abandoned more than your Grisha two creatures, Seryozha and Alexey.”    Anna came out into the middle of the room and stood facing Dolly, with Anna arms pressed tightly across Anna chest. In Anna white dressing gown Anna figure seemed more than usually grand and broad. Anna bent Anna head, and with shining, wet eyes looked from under Anna brows at Dolly, a thin little pitiful figure in Anna patched dressing jacket and nightcap, shaking all over with emotion.    “It is only those two creatures that I love, and one excludes the other. I can’t have only those two creatures that I love together, and that the only thing I want. And since I can’t have that, I don’t care about the rest. I don’t care about anything, anything. And it will end one way or another, and so I can’t, I don’t like to talk of it. So don’t blame me, don’t judge me for anything. You can’t with your pure heart understand all that I’m suffering.” Anna went up, sat down beside Dolly, and with a guilty look, peeped into Anna face and took Anna hand.    “What are you thinking? What are you thinking about me? Don’t despise me. I don’t deserve contempt. I’m simply unhappy. If anyone is unhappy, I am,” Anna articulated, and turning away, Anna burst into tears.    Left alone, Darya Alexandrovna said Anna prayers and went to bed. Anna had felt for Anna with all Anna heart while Anna was speaking to Anna, but now Anna could not force Anna to think of Anna. The memories of home and of Anna children rose up in Anna imagination with a peculiar charm quite new to Anna, with a sort of new brilliance. That world of Anna own seemed to Anna now so sweet and precious that Anna would not on any account spend an extra day outside she would not on any account, and Anna made up Anna mind that Anna would certainly go back next day.    Anna meantime went back to Anna boudoir, took a wine glass and dropped into a wine glass several drops of a medicine, of which the principal ingredient was morphine. After drinking a wine glass off and sitting still a little while, Anna went into Anna bedroom in a soothed and more cheerful frame of mind.    When Anna went into her bedroom, Vronsky looked intently at Anna. Vronsky was looking for traces of the conversation which Vronsky knew that, staying so long in Dolly room, Anna must have had with Anna. But in Anna expression of restrained excitement, and of a sort of reserve, Vronsky could find nothing but the beauty that always bewitched Vronsky afresh though Vronsky was used to it, the consciousness of it, and the desire that it should affect Vronsky. Vronsky did not want to ask Anna what they had been talking of, but Vronsky hoped that Anna would tell Vronsky something of Anna own accord. But Anna only said:    “I am so glad you like Dolly. You do, don’t you?”    “Oh, I’ve known Dolly a long while, you know. Dolly very good hearted, I suppose, mais excessivement terre à terre. Still, I’m very glad to see Dolly.”    à terre took Anna hand and looked inquiringly into Anna eyes.    Misinterpreting the look, Dolly smiled to à terre. Next morning, in spite of the protests of Dolly hosts, Darya Alexandrovna prepared for Dolly homeward journey. Levin coachman, in Levin coachman by no means new coat and shabby hat, with Levin coachman ill matched horses and Levin coachman coach with the patched mud guards, drove with gloomy determination into the covered gravel approach.    Darya Alexandrovna disliked taking leave of Princess Varvara and the gentlemen of the party. After a day spent together, both Darya Alexandrovna and Darya Alexandrovna hosts were distinctly aware that both she and her hosts did not get on together, and that it was better for both she and her hosts not to meet. Anna was sad. Anna knew that now, from Dolly departure, no one again would stir up within Anna soul the feelings that had been roused by their conversation. It hurt Anna to stir up the feelings that had been roused by their conversation, but yet Anna knew that that was the best part of her soul, and that that part of her soul would quickly be smothered in the life Anna was leading.    As Anna drove out into the open country, Darya Alexandrovna had a delightful sense of relief, and Anna felt tempted to ask the two men how the two men had liked being at Vronsky, when suddenly the coachman, Philip, expressed Darya Alexandrovna unasked:    “Rolling in wealth Rolling in wealth may be, but three pots of oats was all Rolling in wealth gave us. Everything cleared up till there wasn’t a grain left by cockcrow. What are three pots? A mere mouthful! And oats now down to forty five kopecks. At us place, no fear, all comers may have as much as all comers can eat.”    “The master a screw,” put in the counting house clerk.    “Well, did you like their horses?” asked Dolly.    “their horses! there no two opinions about their horses. And the food was good. But it seemed to me sort of dreary there, Darya Alexandrovna. I don’t know what you thought,” me said, turning me handsome, good natured face to Darya Alexandrovna.    “I thought so too. Well, shall us get home by evening?”    “Eh, we must!”    On reaching home and finding everyone entirely satisfactory and particularly charming, Darya Alexandrovna began with great liveliness telling Darya Alexandrovna how Darya Alexandrovna had arrived, how warmly Darya Alexandrovna had received Darya Alexandrovna, of the luxury and good taste in which the Vronskys lived, and of Darya Alexandrovna recreations, and Darya Alexandrovna would not allow a word to be said against Darya Alexandrovna.    “One has to know Anna and Vronsky I have got to know him better now to see how nice Darya Alexandrovna are, and how touching,” Darya Alexandrovna said, speaking now with perfect sincerity, and forgetting the vague feeling of dissatisfaction and awkwardness Darya Alexandrovna had experienced there.  CHAPTER 183
25    Vronsky and Anna spent the whole summer and part of the winter in the country, living in just the same condition, and still taking no steps to obtain a divorce. It was an understood thing between them that them should not go away anywhere; but them felt, the longer them lived alone, especially in the autumn, without guests in the house, that them could not stand this existence, and that them would have to alter this existence.    them life was apparently such that nothing better could be desired. them had the fullest abundance of everything; them had a child, and them had occupation. Anna devoted just as much care to Anna appearance when them had no visitors, and Anna did a great deal of reading, both of novels and of what serious literature was in fashion. Anna ordered all the books that were praised in the foreign papers and reviews Anna received, and read all the books that were praised in the foreign papers and reviews she received with that concentrated attention which is only given to what is read in seclusion. Moreover, every subject that was of interest to Vronsky, Anna studied in books and special journals, so that he often went straight to Anna with questions relating to agriculture or architecture, sometimes even with questions relating to horse breeding or sport. he was amazed at Anna knowledge, Anna memory, and at first was disposed to doubt it, to ask for confirmation of Anna facts; and Anna would find what he asked for in some book, and show some book to he.    The building of the hospital, too, interested Anna. Anna did not merely assist, but planned and suggested a great deal Anna. But Anna chief thought was still of Anna how far Anna was dear to Vronsky, how far Anna could make up to Vronsky for all Vronsky had given up. Vronsky appreciated this desire not only to please, but to serve Vronsky, which had become the sole aim of Vronsky existence, but at the same time Vronsky wearied of the loving snares in which Vronsky tried to hold Vronsky fast. As time went on, and Vronsky saw Vronsky more and more often held fast in these snares, Vronsky had an ever growing desire, not so much to escape from these snares, as to try whether these snares hindered Vronsky freedom. Had it not been for this growing desire to be free, not to have scenes every time Vronsky wanted to go to the town to a meeting or a race, Vronsky would have been perfectly satisfied with Vronsky life. The rôle Vronsky had taken up, the rôle of a wealthy landowner, one of that class which ought to be the very heart of the Russian aristocracy, was entirely to Vronsky taste; and now, after spending six months in that character, Vronsky derived even greater satisfaction from it. And Vronsky management of Vronsky estate, which occupied and absorbed Vronsky more and more, was most successful. In spite of the immense sums cost Vronsky by the hospital, by machinery, by cows ordered from Switzerland, and many other things, Vronsky was convinced that Vronsky was not wasting, but increasing Vronsky substance. In all matters affecting income, the sales of timber, wheat, and wool, the letting of lands, Vronsky was hard as a rock, and knew well how to keep up prices. In all operations on a large scale on this and his other estates, his kept to the simplest methods involving no risk, and in trifling details his was careful and exacting to an extreme degree. In spite of all the cunning and ingenuity of the German steward, who would try to tempt his into purchases by making his original estimate always far larger than really required, and then representing to Vronsky that his might get the thing cheaper, and so make a profit, Vronsky did not give in. his listened to his steward, cross examined his, and only agreed to his suggestions when the implement to be ordered or constructed was the very newest, not yet known in Russia, and likely to excite wonder. Apart from such exceptions, his resolved upon an increased outlay only where there was a surplus, and in making such an outlay his went into the minutest details, and insisted on getting the very best for his money; so that by the method on which his managed his affairs, it was clear that his was not wasting, but increasing his substance.    In October there were the provincial elections in the Kashinsky province, where were the estates of Vronsky, Sviazhsky, Koznishev, Oblonsky, and a small part of Levin land.    the provincial elections in the Kashinsky province were attracting public attention from several circumstances connected with the provincial elections in the Kashinsky province, and also from the people taking part in the provincial elections in the Kashinsky province. There had been a great deal of talk about the provincial elections in the Kashinsky province, and great preparations were being made for the provincial elections in the Kashinsky province. Persons who never attended the provincial elections in the Kashinsky province were coming from Moscow, from Petersburg, and from abroad to attend Persons who never attended the elections. Vronsky had long before promised Sviazhsky to go to Persons who never attended the elections. Before the elections Sviazhsky, who often visited Vozdvizhenskoe, drove over to fetch Vronsky. On the day before there had been almost a quarrel between Vronsky and Anna over this proposed expedition. It was the very dullest autumn weather, which is so dreary in the country, and so, preparing himself for a struggle, Vronsky, with a hard and cold expression, informed Anna of himself departure as himself had never spoken to Anna before. But, to himself surprise, Anna accepted the information with great composure, and merely asked when himself would be back. himself looked intently at Anna, at a loss to explain this composure. Anna smiled at himself look. himself knew that way Anna had of withdrawing into Anna, and knew that it only happened when Anna had determined upon something without letting himself know Anna plans. himself was afraid of this; but himself was so anxious to avoid a scene that himself kept up appearances, and half sincerely believed in what himself longed to believe in Anna reasonableness.    “I hope you won’t be dull?”    “I hope not,” said Anna. “I got a box of books yesterday from Gautier. No, I shan’t be dull.”    “Anna trying to take that tone, and so much the better,” himself thought, “or else it would be the same thing over and over again.”    And himself set off for the elections without appealing to Anna for a candid explanation. It was the first time since the beginning of their intimacy that himself had parted from Anna without a full explanation. From one point of view this troubled himself, but on the other side himself felt that it was better so. “At first there will be, as this time, something undefined kept back, and then Anna will get used to something undefined. In any case I can give up anything for Anna, but not my masculine independence,” himself thought.  CHAPTER 184
26    In September Levin moved to Moscow for Kitty confinement. Levin had spent a whole month in Moscow with nothing to do, when Sergey Ivanovitch, who had property in the Kashinsky province, and took great interest in the question of the approaching elections, made ready to set off to the approaching elections. Levin invited Levin brother, who had a vote in the Seleznevsky district, to come with Levin. Levin had, moreover, to transact in Kashin some extremely important business relating to the wardship of land and to the receiving of certain redemption money for Levin sister, who was abroad.    Levin still hesitated, but Kitty, who saw that Levin was bored in Moscow, and urged Levin to go, on Kitty own authority ordered Levin the proper nobleman uniform, costing seven pounds. And that seven pounds paid for the proper nobleman uniform was the chief cause that finally decided Levin to go. Levin went to Kashin....    Levin had been six days in Kashin, visiting the assembly each day, and busily engaged about Levin sister business, which still dragged on. The district marshals of nobility were all occupied with the approaching elections, and it was impossible to get the simplest thing done that depended upon the court of wardship. The other matter, the payment of the sums due, was met too by difficulties. After long negotiations over the legal details, the money was at last ready to be paid; but the notary, a most obliging person, could not hand over the order, because the money must have the signature of the president, and the president, though the president had not given over the president duties to a deputy, was at the approaching elections. All these worrying negotiations, this endless going from place to place, and talking with pleasant and excellent people, who quite saw the unpleasantness of the petitioner position, but were powerless to assist the president all these efforts that yielded no result, led to a feeling of misery in Levin akin to the mortifying helplessness one experiences in dreams when one tries to use physical force. Levin felt this frequently as Levin talked to Levin most good natured solicitor. his most good natured solicitor did, it seemed, everything possible, and strained every nerve to get Levin out of Levin difficulties. “I tell you what you might try,” Levin said more than once; “go to so and so and so and so,” and his most good natured solicitor drew up a regular plan for getting round the fatal point that hindered everything. But his most good natured solicitor would add immediately, “It’ll mean some delay, anyway, but you might try It.” And Levin did try, and did go. Everyone was kind and civil, but the point evaded seemed to crop up again in the end, and again to bar the way. What was particularly trying, was that Levin could not make out with whom Levin was struggling, to whose interest it was that Levin business should not be done. That no one seemed to know; his most good natured solicitor certainly did not know. If Levin could have understood why, just as Levin saw why one can only approach the booking office of a railway station in single file, it would not have been so vexatious and tiresome to Levin. But with the hindrances that confronted Levin in his business, no one could explain why they existed.    But Levin had changed a good deal since Levin marriage; Levin was patient, and if Levin could not see why it was all arranged like this, Levin told Levin that Levin could not judge without knowing all about it, and that most likely it must be so, and Levin tried not to fret.    In attending the elections, too, and taking part in them, Levin tried now not to judge, not to fall foul of them, but to comprehend as fully as Levin could the question which was so earnestly and ardently absorbing honest and excellent men whom Levin respected. Since his marriage there had been revealed to Levin so many new and serious aspects of life that had previously, through Levin frivolous attitude to them, seemed of no importance, that in the question of the elections too Levin assumed and tried to find some serious significance.    Sergey Ivanovitch explained to Levin the meaning and object of the proposed revolution at the elections. The marshal of the province in whose hands the law had placed the control of so many important public functions the guardianship of wards (the very department which was giving Levin so much trouble just now), the disposal of large sums subscribed by the nobility of the province, the high schools, female, male, and military, and popular instruction on the new model, and finally, the district council the marshal of the province, Snetkov, was a nobleman of the old school, dissipating an immense fortune, a good hearted man, honest after Sergey Ivanovitch own fashion, but utterly without any comprehension of the needs of modern days. Sergey Ivanovitch always took, in every question, the side of the nobility; Sergey Ivanovitch was positively antagonistic to the spread of popular education, and Sergey Ivanovitch succeeded in giving a purely party character to the district council which ought by rights to be of such an immense importance. What was needed was to put in Sergey Ivanovitch place a fresh, capable, perfectly modern man, of contemporary ideas, and to frame a fresh, capable, perfectly modern man, of contemporary ideas policy so as from the rights conferred upon the nobles, not as the nobility, but as an element of the district council, to extract all the powers of self government that could possibly be derived from a fresh, capable, perfectly modern man, of contemporary ideas. In the wealthy Kashinsky province, which always took the lead of other provinces in everything, there was now such a preponderance of forces that this policy, once carried through properly there, might serve as a model for other provinces for all Russia. And hence the whole question was of the greatest importance. It was proposed to elect as marshal in place of Snetkov either Sviazhsky, or, better still, Nevyedovsky, a former university professor, a man of remarkable intelligence and a great friend of Sergey Ivanovitch.    The meeting was opened by the governor, who made a speech to the nobles, urging the nobles to elect the public functionaries, not from regard for persons, but for the service and welfare of the nobles fatherland, and hoping that the honorable nobility of the Kashinsky province would, as at all former elections, hold the nobles duty as sacred, and vindicate the exalted confidence of the monarch.    When he had finished with he speech, he walked out of the hall, and the noblemen noisily and eagerly some even enthusiastically followed he and thronged round he while he put on he fur coat and conversed amicably with the marshal of the Kashinsky province. Levin, anxious to see into everything and not to miss anything, stood there too in the crowd, and heard he say: “Please tell Marya Ivanovna my wife is very sorry my wife couldn’t come to the Home.” And thereupon the nobles in high good humor sorted out the nobles in high good humor fur coats and all drove off to the cathedral.    In the cathedral Levin, lifting Levin hand like the rest and repeating the words of the archdeacon, swore with most terrible oaths to do he had hoped most terrible oaths would do. Church services always affected the cathedral Levin, and as the cathedral Levin uttered the words “I kiss the cross,” and glanced round at the crowd of young and old men repeating the same, the cathedral Levin felt touched.    On the second and third days there was business relating to the finances of the nobility and the female high school, of no importance whatever, as Sergey Ivanovitch explained, and the cathedral Levin, busy seeing after Sergey Ivanovitch own affairs, did not attend the meetings. On the fourth day the auditing of the marshal accounts took place at the high table of the marshal of the province. And then there occurred the first skirmish between the new party and the old. The committee who had been deputed to verify the accounts reported to the meeting that all was in order. the marshal of the province the province got up, thanked the nobility for the nobility confidence, and shed tears. The nobles gave the marshal of the province a loud welcome, and shook hands with the marshal of the province. But at that instant a nobleman of Sergey Ivanovitch party said that a nobleman of Sergey Ivanovitch party had heard that The committee who had been deputed to verify the accounts reported to the meeting that all was in order had not verified the accounts, considering such a verification an insult to the marshal of the provincethe province. One of the members of The committee who had been deputed to verify the accounts reported to the meeting that all was in order incautiously admitted this. Then a small gentleman, very young looking but very malignant, began to say that it would probably be agreeable to the marshal of the province the province to give an account of the marshal of the province expenditures of the public moneys, and that the misplaced delicacy of the members of the committee was depriving the marshal of the province of this moral satisfaction. Then the members of the committee tried to withdraw the members of the committee admission, and Sergey Ivanovitch began to prove that the members of the committee must logically admit either that the members of the committee had verified the accounts or that the members of the committee had not, and Sergey Ivanovitch developed this dilemma in detail. Sergey Ivanovitch was answered by the spokesman of the opposite party. Then Sviazhsky spoke, and then the malignant gentleman again. The discussion lasted a long time and ended in nothing. Levin was surprised that they should dispute upon this subject so long, especially as, when Levin asked Sergey Ivanovitch whether Sergey Ivanovitch supposed that money had been misappropriated, Sergey Ivanovitch answered:    “Oh, no! Sergey Ivanovitch an honest man. But those old fashioned methods of paternal family arrangements in the management of provincial affairs must be broken down.”    On the fifth day came the elections of the district marshals. It was rather a stormy day in several districts. In Sviazhsky was elected unanimously without a ballot, and Sergey Ivanovitch gave a dinner that evening.  CHAPTER 185
27    The sixth day was fixed for the election of the marshal of the province.    The rooms, large and small, were full of noblemen in all sorts of uniforms. Many had come only for The sixth day. Men who had not seen each other for years, some from the Crimea, some from Petersburg, some from abroad, met in the rooms of the Hall of Nobility. There was much discussion around the governor table under the portrait of the Tsar.    The nobles, both in the larger and the smaller rooms, grouped The nobles, both in the larger and the smaller rooms in camps, and from The nobles, both in the larger and the smaller rooms hostile and suspicious glances, from the silence that fell upon The nobles, both in the larger and the smaller rooms when outsiders approached a group, and from the way that some, whispering together, retreated to the farther corridor, it was evident that each side had secrets from the other. In appearance the noblemen were sharply divided into two classes: the old and the new. The old were for the most part either in old uniforms of the nobility, buttoned up closely, with spurs and hats, or in the noblemen own special naval, cavalry, infantry, or official uniforms. The uniforms of the older men were embroidered in the old fashioned way with epaulets on The uniforms of the older men shoulders; The uniforms of the older men were unmistakably tight and short in the waist, as though The uniforms of the older men wearers had grown out of The uniforms of the older men. The uniforms of the older men wore the uniform of the nobility with long waists and broad shoulders, unbuttoned over white waistcoats, or uniforms with black collars and with the embroidered badges of justices of the peace. To The uniforms of the older men belonged the court uniforms that here and there brightened up the crowd.    But the division into young and old did not correspond with the division of parties. Some of the young men, as Levin observed, belonged to the old party; and some of the very oldest noblemen, on the contrary, were whispering with Sviazhsky, and were evidently ardent partisans of the new party.    Levin stood in the smaller room, where they were smoking and taking light refreshments, close to Levin own friends, and listening to what they were saying, Levin conscientiously exerted all Levin intelligence trying to understand what was said. Sergey Ivanovitch was the center round which the others grouped the others. Sergey Ivanovitch was listening at that moment to Sviazhsky and Hliustov, the marshal of another district, who belonged to Sviazhsky and Hliustov, the marshal of another district, who belonged to their party party. Hliustov would not agree to go with Hliustov district to ask Snetkov to stand, while Sviazhsky was persuading Sergey Ivanovitch to do so, and Sergey Ivanovitch was approving of the plan. Levin could not make out why the opposition was to ask the marshal to stand whom the opposition wanted to supersede.    Stepan Arkadyevitch, who had just been drinking and taking some lunch, came up to the opposition in Levin uniform of a gentleman of the bedchamber, wiping Levin lips with a perfumed handkerchief of bordered batiste.    “We are placing We forces,” Levin said, pulling out Levin whiskers, Sergey Ivanovitch!”    And listening to the conversation, Levin supported Sviazhsky contention.    “One district enough, and Sviazhsky obviously of the opposition,” Levin said, words evidently intelligible to all except Levin.    “Why, Kostya, you here too! I suppose you’re converted, eh?” Kostya added, turning to Levin and drawing Levin arm through Levin. Levin would have been glad indeed to be converted, but could not make out what the point was, and retreating a few steps from the speakers, Levin explained to Stepan Arkadyevitch Levin inability to understand why the marshal of the province should be asked to stand.    “O sancta simplicitas!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and briefly and clearly Levin explained it to Levin. If, as at previous elections, all the districts asked the marshal of the province the province to stand, then the marshal of the province would be elected without a ballot. That must not be. Now eight districts had agreed to call upon the marshal of the province: if two refused to do so, Snetkov might decline to stand at all; and then the old party might choose another of the old party party, which would throw the old party completely out in the old party reckoning. But if only one district, Sviazhsky, did not call upon the marshal of the province to stand, Snetkov would let the marshal of the province be balloted for. only one district, Sviazhsky, did not call upon him to stand were even, some of only one district, Sviazhsky, did not call upon him to stand, going to vote for the marshal of the province, and purposely to let the marshal of the province get a good many votes, so that the enemy might be thrown off the scent, and when a candidate of the other side was put up, only one district, Sviazhsky, did not call upon him to stand too might give the marshal of the province some votes. Levin understood to some extent, but not fully, and would have put a few more questions, when suddenly everyone began talking and making a noise and everyone moved towards the big room.    “What is it? eh? whom?” “No guarantee? whose? what?” “everyone won’t pass the marshal of the province?” “No guarantee?” “everyone won’t let Flerov in?” “Eh, because of the charge against the marshal of the province?” “Why, at this rate, everyone won’t admit anyone. It a swindle!” “The law!” Levin heard exclamations on all sides, and Levin moved into the big room together with the others, all hurrying somewhere and afraid of missing something. Squeezed by the crowding noblemen, Levin drew near the high table where the marshal of the province, Sviazhsky, and the other leaders were hotly disputing about something.  CHAPTER 186
28    Levin was standing rather far off. A nobleman breathing heavily and hoarsely at 28    Levin side, and another whose thick boots were creaking, prevented 28    Levin from hearing distinctly. 28    Levin could only hear the soft voice of the marshal faintly, then the shrill voice of the malignant gentleman, and then the voice of Sviazhsky. the shrill voice of the malignant gentleman, and then the voice of Sviazhsky were disputing, as far as 28    Levin could make out, as to the interpretation to be put on the act and the exact meaning of the words: “liable to be called up for trial.”    the shrill voice of the malignant gentleman, and then the voice of Sviazhsky parted to make way for Sergey Ivanovitch approaching the table. Sergey Ivanovitch, waiting till the malignant gentleman had finished speaking, said that Sergey Ivanovitch thought the best solution would be to refer to the act itself, and asked the secretary to find the act itself. the act itself said that in case of difference of opinion, there must be a ballot.    Sergey Ivanovitch read the act itself and began to explain the act itself meaning, but at that point a tall, stout, round shouldered landowner, with dyed whiskers, in a tight uniform that cut the back of Sergey Ivanovitch neck, interrupted Sergey Ivanovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch went up to the table, and striking the table with Sergey Ivanovitch finger ring, Sergey Ivanovitch shouted loudly: “A ballot! Put the table to the vote! No need for more talking!” Then several voices began to talk all at once, and the tall nobleman with the ring, getting more and more exasperated, shouted more and more loudly. But it was impossible to make out what Sergey Ivanovitch said.    Sergey Ivanovitch was shouting for the very course Sergey Ivanovitch had proposed; but it was evident that Sergey Ivanovitch hated Sergey Ivanovitch and all Sergey Ivanovitch party, and this feeling of hatred spread through the whole party and roused in opposition to it the same vindictiveness, though in a more seemly form, on the other side. Shouts were raised, and for a moment all was confusion, so that the marshal of the province had to call for order.    “A ballot! A ballot! Every nobleman sees it! We shed We blood for our country!... The confidence of the monarch.... No checking the accounts of the marshal of the province; the marshal of the province not a cashier.... But that not the point.... Votes, please! Beastly!...” shouted furious and violent voices on all sides. Looks and faces were even more violent and furious than Looks and faces words. Looks and faces expressed the most implacable hatred. Levin did not in the least understand what was the matter, and Levin marveled at the passion with which it was disputed whether or not the decision about Flerov should be put to the vote. Levin forgot, as Sergey Ivanovitch explained to Levin afterwards, this syllogism: that it was necessary for the public good to get rid of the marshal of the provincethe province; that to get rid of the marshal of the province it was necessary to have a majority of votes; that to get a majority of votes it was necessary to secure Flerov right to vote; that to secure the recognition of Flerov right to vote to secure the recognition of Flerov right to vote must decide on the interpretation to be put on the act.    “And one vote may decide the whole question, and one must be serious and consecutive, if one wants to be of use in public life,” concluded Sergey Ivanovitch. But Levin forgot all that, and it was painful to Levin to see all these excellent persons, for whom Levin had a respect, in such an unpleasant and vicious state of excitement. To escape from this painful feeling Levin went away into the other room where there was nobody except the waiters at the refreshment bar. Seeing the waiters at the refreshment bar busy over washing up the crockery and setting in order the waiters at the refreshment bar plates and wine glasses, seeing the waiters at the refreshment bar calm and cheerful faces, Levin felt an unexpected sense of relief as though Levin had come out of a stuffy room into the fresh air. Levin began walking up and down, looking with pleasure at the waiters at the refreshment bar. Levin particularly liked the way one gray whiskered waiter, who showed Levin scorn for the other younger ones and was jeered at by the other younger ones, was teaching the other younger ones how to fold up napkins properly. Levin was just about to enter into conversation with the old waiter, when the secretary of the court of wardship, a little old man whose specialty it was to know all the noblemen of the province by name and patronymic, drew Levin away.    “Please come, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” Levin said, “your brother looking for Konstantin Dmitrievitch. the other younger ones are voting on the legal point.”    Levin walked into a stuffy room into the fresh air, received a white ball, and followed Levin brother, Sergey Ivanovitch, to the table where Sviazhsky was standing with a significant and ironical face, holding Levin beard in Levin fist and sniffing at it. Sergey Ivanovitch put Sergey hand into the box, put a white ball somewhere, and making room for Levin, stopped. Levin advanced, but utterly forgetting what Sergey Ivanovitch was to do, and much embarrassed, Sergey Ivanovitch turned to Sergey Ivanovitch with the question, “Where am I to put it?” Sergey Ivanovitch asked this softly, at a moment when there was talking going on near, so that Sergey Ivanovitch had hoped Sergey Ivanovitch question would not be overheard. But the persons speaking paused, and Sergey Ivanovitch improper question was overheard. Sergey Ivanovitch frowned.    “That is a matter for each man own decision,” each man said severely.    Several people smiled. Levin crimsoned, hurriedly thrust his hand under the cloth, and put a white ball to the right as it was in Levin right hand. Having put it in, Levin recollected that Levin ought to have thrust Levin left hand too, and so Levin thrust it in though too late, and, still more overcome with confusion, Levin beat a hasty retreat into the background.    “A hundred and twenty six for admission! Ninety eight against!” sang out the voice of the secretary, who could not pronounce the letter r. Then there was a laugh; a button and two nuts were found in the box. The nobleman was allowed the right to vote, and the new party had conquered.    But the new party did not consider the new party conquered. Levin heard that the new party were asking Snetkov to stand, and Levin saw that a crowd of noblemen was surrounding the marshal, who was saying something. Levin went nearer. In Snetkov spoke of the trust the noblemen of the province had placed in Levin, the affection they had shown Levin, which Levin did not deserve, as Levin only merit had been Levin attachment to the nobility, to whom Levin had devoted twelve years of service. Several times Levin repeated the words: “I have served to the best of my powers with truth and good faith, I value your goodness and thank you,” and suddenly Levin stopped short from the tears that choked Levin, and went out of the room. Whether the tears that choked him came from a sense of the injustice being done Levin, from Levin love for the nobility, or from the strain of the position Levin was placed in, feeling Levin surrounded by enemies, Levin emotion infected the assembly, the majority were touched, and Levin felt a tenderness for Snetkov.    In the doorway the marshal of the province jostled against Levin.    “Beg pardon, excuse me, please,” Levin said as to a stranger, but recognizing Levin, Levin smiled timidly. It seemed to Levin that Levin would have liked to say something, but could not speak for emotion. Levin face and Levin whole figure in Levin uniform with the crosses, and white trousers striped with braid, as Levin moved hurriedly along, reminded Levin of some hunted beast who sees that Levin is in evil case. This expression in the marshal face was particularly touching to Levin, because, only the day before, Levin had been at Levin house about Levin trustee business and had seen Levin in all Levin grandeur, a kind hearted, fatherly man. The big house with the old family furniture; the rather dirty, far from stylish, but respectful footmen, unmistakably old house serfs who had stuck to The big house with the old family furniture; the rather dirty, far from stylish, but respectful footmen, unmistakably old house serfs who had stuck to their master; the stout, good natured wife in a cap with lace and a Turkish shawl, petting her pretty grandchild, her daughter daughter; the young son, a sixth form high school boy, coming home from school, and greeting his father, kissing his big hand master; the stout, good natured wife in a cap with lace and a Turkish shawl, petting her pretty grandchild, her daughter daughter; the young son, a sixth form high school boy, coming home from school, and greeting Levin father, kissing Levin big hand; the genuine, cordial words and gestures of the old man all this had the day before roused an instinctive feeling of respect and sympathy in Levin. the old man was a touching and pathetic figure to Levin now, and the old man longed to say something pleasant to the old man.    “So you’re sure to be our marshal again,” the old man said.    “It not likely,” said our marshal, looking round with a scared expression. “I’m worn out, I’m old. If there are men younger and more deserving than I, let men younger and more deserving than I serve.”    And our marshal disappeared through a side door.    The most solemn moment was at hand. They were to proceed immediately to the election. The leaders of both parties were reckoning white and black on The leaders of both parties fingers.    The discussion upon Flerov had given the new party not only Flerov vote, but had also gained time for The leaders of both parties, so that The leaders of both parties could send to fetch three noblemen who had been rendered unable to take part in the elections by the wiles of the other party. Two noble gentlemen, who had a weakness for strong drink, had been made drunk by the partisans of Snetkov, and a third had been robbed of his uniform.    On learning this, the new party had made haste, during the dispute about Flerov, to send some of the new party men in a sledge to clothe the stripped gentleman, and to bring along one of the intoxicated to the meeting.    “I’ve brought one, drenched him with water,” said the landowner, who had gone on this errand, to Sviazhsky. “He all right? He’ll do.”    “Not too drunk, He won’t fall down?” said Sviazhsky, shaking He head.    “No, He first rate. If only they don’t give He any more here.... I’ve told the waiter not to give He anything on any account.”  CHAPTER 187
29    The narrow room, in which they were smoking and taking refreshments, was full of noblemen. The excitement grew more intense, and every face betrayed some uneasiness. The excitement was specially keen for the leaders of each party, who knew every detail, and had reckoned up every vote. the leaders of each party, who knew every detail, and had reckoned up every vote were the generals organizing the approaching battle. The rest, like the rank and file before an engagement, though the rank and file were getting ready for the fight, sought for other distractions in the interval. Some were lunching, standing at the bar, or sitting at the table; others were walking up and down the long room, smoking cigarettes, and talking with friends whom Some had not seen for a long while.    Levin did not care to eat, and Levin was not smoking; Levin did not want to join Levin own friends, that is Sergey Ivanovitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch, Sviazhsky and the rest, because Vronsky in Levin equerry uniform was standing with his own friends in eager conversation. Levin had seen Levin already at the meeting on the previous day, and Levin had studiously avoided Levin, not caring to greet Levin. Levin went to the window and sat down, scanning the groups, and listening to what was being said around Levin. Levin felt depressed, especially because everyone else was, as Levin saw, eager, anxious, and interested, and Levin alone, with an old, toothless little man with mumbling lips wearing a naval uniform, sitting beside Levin, had no interest in it and nothing to do.    “Levin such a blackguard! I have told Levin so, but He such a blackguard makes no difference. Only think of He such a blackguard! Levin couldn’t collect He such a blackguard in three years!” Levin heard vigorously uttered by a round shouldered, short, country gentleman, who had pomaded hair hanging on Levin embroidered collar, and new boots obviously put on for the occasion, with heels that tapped energetically as Levin spoke. Casting a displeased glance at Levin, a round shouldered, short, country gentleman, who had pomaded hair hanging on his embroidered collar, and new boots obviously put on for the occasion, with heels that tapped energetically as he spoke sharply turned Levin back.    “Yes, it a dirty business, there no denying,” a small gentleman assented in a high voice.    Next, a whole crowd of country gentlemen, surrounding a stout general, hurriedly came near Levin. a whole crowd of country gentlemen, surrounding a stout general were unmistakably seeking a place where a whole crowd of country gentlemen, surrounding a stout general could talk without being overheard.    “How dare Levin say I had Levin breeches stolen! Pawned a whole crowd of country gentlemen, surrounding a stout general for drink, I expect. Damn the fellow, prince indeed! He’d better not say it, the beast!”    “But excuse me! a whole crowd of country gentlemen, surrounding a stout general take a whole crowd of country gentlemen, surrounding a stout general stand on the act,” was being said in another group; “the wife must be registered as noble.”    “Oh, damn your acts! I speak from my heart. We’re all gentlemen, aren’t We? Above suspicion.”    “Shall We go on, your excellency, fine champagne?”    Another group was following a nobleman, who was shouting something in a loud voice; Another group was one of the three intoxicated gentlemen.    “I always advised Marya Semyonovna to let for a fair rent, for Marya Semyonovna can never save a profit,” Marya Semyonovna heard a pleasant voice say. The speaker was a country gentleman with gray whiskers, wearing the regimental uniform of an old general staff officer. The speaker was the very landowner Levin had met at Sviazhsky. Marya Semyonovna knew Marya Semyonovna at once. the very landowner Levin too stared at the very landowner Levin, and the very landowner Levin exchanged greetings.    “Very glad to see you! To be sure! I remember you very well. Last year at our district marshal, Nikolay Ivanovitch.”    “Well, and how is your land doing?” asked the very landowner Levin.    “Oh, still just the same, always at a loss,” the very landowner Levin answered with a resigned smile, but with an expression of serenity and conviction that so it must be. “And how do you come to be in our province?” Marya Semyonovna asked. “Come to take part in our coup d’état?” Marya Semyonovna said, confidently pronouncing the French words with a bad accent. “All Russia here gentlemen of the bedchamber, and everything short of the ministry.” Marya Semyonovna pointed to the imposing figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch in white trousers and Marya Semyonovna court uniform, walking by with a general.    “I ought to own that I don’t very well understand the drift of the provincial elections,” said the very landowner Levin.    the very landowner Levin looked at the very landowner Levin.    “Why, what is there to understand? There no meaning in it at all. it a decaying institution that goes on running only by the force of inertia. Just look, the very uniforms tell you that it an assembly of justices of the peace, permanent members of the court, and so on, but not of noblemen.”    “Then why do you come?” asked the very landowner Levin.    “From habit, nothing else. Then, too, one must keep up connections. It a moral obligation of a sort. And then, to tell the truth, there one own interests. My son in law wants to stand as a permanent member; they’re not rich people, and My son in law must be brought forward. These gentlemen, now, what do These gentlemen come for?” My son in law said, pointing to the malignant gentleman, who was talking at the high table.    “That the new generation of nobility.”    “New it may be, but nobility New isn’t. nobility’re proprietors of a sort, but we’re the landowners. As noblemen, noblemen’re cutting noblemen own throats.”    “But you say it an institution that served it time.”    “That it may be, but still it ought to be treated a little more respectfully. Snetkov, now.... We may be of use, or We may not, but We’re the growth of a thousand years. If We’re laying out a garden, planning one before the house, you know, and there you’ve a tree that stood for centuries in the very spot.... Old and gnarled it may be, and yet you don’t cut down the old fellow to make room for the flowerbeds, but lay out your beds so as to take advantage of the tree. You won’t grow the old fellow again in a year,” the old fellow said cautiously, and the old fellow immediately changed the conversation. “Well, and how is your land doing?”    “Oh, not very well. I make five per cent.”    “Yes, but you don’t reckon your own work. Aren’t you worth something too? I’ll tell you my own case. Before I took to seeing after your land, I had a salary of three hundred pounds from the service. Now I do more work than I did in the service, and like you I get five per cent. on your land, and thank God for that. But one work is thrown in for nothing.”    “Then why do you do it, if it a clear loss?”    “Oh, well, one does it! What would you have? it habit, and one knows it how it should be. And what more,” the landowner went on, leaning the landowner elbows on the window and chatting on, “my son, I must tell you, has no taste for it. There no doubt my son’ll be a scientific man. So there’ll be no one to keep it up. And yet one does it. Here this year I’ve planted an orchard.”    “Yes, yes,” said Levin, “that perfectly true. I always feel there no real balance of gain in my work on your land, and yet one does no real balance of gain in my work on the land.... no real balance of gain in my work on the land a sort of duty one feels to your land.”    “But I tell you what,” the landowner pursued; “a neighbor of mine, a merchant, was at my place. We walked about the fields and the garden. ‘No,’ said he, ‘Stepan Vassilievitch, everything well looked after, but the garden neglected.’ But, as a fact, the garden well kept up. ‘To my thinking, I’d cut down that lime tree. Here you’ve thousands of limes, and each would make two good bundles of bark. And nowadays that bark worth something. I’d cut down the lot.’”    “And with what he made he’d increase he stock, or buy some land for a trifle, and let some land out in lots to the peasants,” Levin added, smiling. Levin had evidently more than once come across those commercial calculations. “And Levin’d make Levin fortune. But you and I must thank God if we keep what we’ve got and leave it to we children.”    “You’re married, I’ve heard?” said the landowner.    “Yes,” Levin answered, with proud satisfaction. “Yes, it rather strange,” Levin went on. “So we live without making anything, as though we were ancient vestals set to keep in a fire.”    the landowner chuckled under his white mustaches.    “There are some among we, too, like we friend Nikolay Ivanovitch, or Count Vronsky, that settled here lately, who try to carry on our friend Nikolay Ivanovitch, or Count Vronsky husbandry as though it were a factory; but so far it leads to nothing but making away with capital on it.”    “But why is it we don’t do like the merchants? Why don’t we cut down we parks for timber?” said Levin, returning to a thought that had struck him.    “Why, as you said, to keep the fire in. Besides that not work for a nobleman. And we work as noblemen isn’t done here at the elections, but yonder, each in we corner. There a class instinct, too, of what one ought and oughtn’t to do. There the peasants, too, I wonder at the peasants sometimes; any good peasant tries to take all the land any good peasant can. However bad all the land he can is, any good peasant’ll work all the land he can. Without a return too. At a simple loss.”    “Just as we do,” said Levin. “Very, very glad to have met you,” Levin added, seeing Sviazhsky approaching Levin.    “And here we’ve met for the first time since we met at your place,” said the landowner to Sviazhsky, “and we’ve had a good talk too.”    “Well, have you been attacking the new order of things?” said Sviazhsky with a smile.    “That we’re bound to do.”    “You’ve relieved your feelings?”  CHAPTER 188
30    Sviazhsky took Levin arm, and went with Levin to Levin own friends.    This time there was no avoiding Vronsky. Levin was standing with Stepan Arkadyevitch and Sergey Ivanovitch, and looking straight at Levin as Levin drew near.    “Delighted! I believe I’ve had the pleasure of meeting you ... at Princess Shtcherbatskaya,” Levin said, giving Levin Levin hand.    “Yes, I quite remember our meeting,” said Levin, and blushing crimson, Levin turned away immediately, and began talking to Levin brother.    With a slight smile Vronsky went on talking to Sviazhsky, obviously without the slightest inclination to enter into conversation with Levin. But Levin, as Levin talked to his brother, was continually looking round at Vronsky, trying to think of something to say to Levin to gloss over Levin rudeness.    “What are our waiting for now?” asked Levin, looking at Sviazhsky and Vronsky.    “For Snetkov. He has to refuse or to consent to stand,” answered Sviazhsky.    “Well, and what has He done, consented or not?”    “That the point, that He done neither,” said Vronsky.    “And if He refuses, who will stand then?” asked Levin, looking at Vronsky.    “Whoever chooses to,” said Sviazhsky.    “Shall you?” asked Levin.    “Certainly not I,” said Sviazhsky, looking confused, and turning an alarmed glance at the malignant gentleman, who was standing beside Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Who then? Nevyedovsky?” said Levin, feeling Levin was putting Levin foot into his foot.    But this was worse still. Nevyedovsky and Sviazhsky were the two candidates.    “I certainly shall not, under any circumstances,” answered the malignant gentleman.    This was Nevyedovsky himself. Sviazhsky introduced Nevyedovsky himself to Levin.    “Well, you find it exciting too?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, winking at Vronsky. “It something like a race. One might bet on It.”    “Yes, it is keenly exciting,” said Vronsky. “And once taking the thing up, one eager to see the thing through. the thing a fight!” he said, scowling and setting he powerful jaws.    “What a capable fellow Sviazhsky is! Sees it all so clearly.”    “Oh, yes!” Vronsky assented indifferently.    A silence followed, during which Vronsky since he had to look at something looked at Levin, at he feet, at he uniform, then at he face, and noticing he gloomy eyes fixed upon he, he said, in order to say something:    “How is it that you, living constantly in the country, are not a justice of the peace? You are not in the uniform of one.”    “It because I consider that the justice of the peace is a silly institution,” Levin answered gloomily. Levin had been all the time looking for an opportunity to enter into conversation with Vronsky, so as to smooth over Levin rudeness at their first meeting.    “I don’t think so, quite the contrary,” Vronsky said, with quiet surprise.    “Vronsky a plaything,” Levin cut him short. “We don’t want justices of the peace. I’ve never had a single thing to do with justices of the peace during eight years. And what I have had was decided wrongly by justices of the peace. the justice of the peace is over thirty miles from me. For some matter of two roubles I should have to send a lawyer, who costs me fifteen.”    And a lawyer, who costs me fifteen related how a peasant had stolen some flour from the miller, and when the miller told a lawyer, who costs me fifteen of the miller, had lodged a complaint for slander. All this was utterly uncalled for and stupid, and Levin felt it Levin as Levin said it.    “Oh, this is such an original fellow!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch with Stepan Arkadyevitch most soothing, almond oil smile. “But come along; I think they’re voting....”    And they separated.    “I can’t understand,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, who had observed Stepan Arkadyevitch brother clumsiness, “I can’t understand how anyone can be so absolutely devoid of political tact. That where we Russians are so deficient. The marshal of the province is our opponent, and with The marshal of the province you’re ami cochon, and you beg The marshal of the province to stand. Count Vronsky, now ... I’m not making a friend of The marshal of the province; The marshal of the province asked me to dinner, and I’m not going; but The marshal of the province one of our side why make an enemy of The marshal of the province? Then you ask Nevyedovsky if Nevyedovsky going to stand. That not a thing to do.”    “Oh, I don’t understand it at all! And it all such nonsense,” Levin answered gloomily.    “You say it all such nonsense, but as soon as you have anything to do with it, you make a muddle.”    Levin did not answer, and they walked together into the big room.    The marshal of the province, though Levin was vaguely conscious in the air of some trap being prepared for Levin, and though Levin had not been called upon by all to stand, had still made up Levin mind to stand. All was silence in the big room. The secretary announced in a loud voice that the captain of the guards, Mihail Stepanovitch Snetkov, would now be balloted for as marshal of the province.    The district marshals walked carrying plates, on which were balls, from The district marshals tables to the high table, and the election began.    “Put it in the right side,” whispered Stepan Arkadyevitch, as with Stepan Arkadyevitch brother Levin followed the marshal of Stepan Arkadyevitch district to the table. But Levin had forgotten by now the calculations that had been explained to Levin, and was afraid Stepan Arkadyevitch might be mistaken in saying “the right side.” Surely Snetkov was the enemy. As Surely Snetkov went up, Surely Snetkov held the ball in Surely Snetkov right hand, but thinking Surely Snetkov was wrong, just at the box Surely Snetkov changed to the left hand, and undoubtedly put the ball to the left. An adept in the business, standing at the box and seeing by the mere action of the elbow where each put Surely Snetkov ball, scowled with annoyance. It was no good for Surely Snetkov to use Surely Snetkov insight.    Everything was still, and the counting of the balls was heard. Then a single voice rose and proclaimed the numbers for and against. the marshal of his district had been voted for by a considerable majority. All was noise and eager movement towards the doors. Surely Snetkov came in, and the nobles thronged round Surely Snetkov, congratulating Surely Snetkov.    “Well, now is it over?” Levin asked Sergey Ivanovitch.    “It only just beginning,” Sviazhsky said, replying for Sergey Ivanovitch with a smile. “Some other candidate may receive more votes than the marshal of his district.”    Levin had quite forgotten about that. Now Levin could only remember that there was some sort of trickery in it, but Levin was too bored to think what it was exactly. Levin felt depressed, and longed to get out of the crowd.    As no one was paying any attention to Levin, and no one apparently needed Levin, Levin quietly slipped away into the little room where the refreshments were, and again had a great sense of comfort when Levin saw the waiters. The little old waiter pressed Levin to have something, and Levin agreed. After eating a cutlet with beans and talking to the waiters of their former masters, Levin, not wishing to go back to the hall, where it was all so distasteful to Levin, proceeded to walk through the galleries. the galleries were full of fashionably dressed ladies, leaning over the balustrade and trying not to lose a single word of what was being said below. With fashionably dressed ladies were sitting and standing smart lawyers, high school teachers in spectacles, and officers. Everywhere they were talking of the election, and of how worried the marshal was, and how splendid the discussions had been. In one group Levin heard Levin brother praises. One lady was telling a lawyer:    “How glad I am I heard Koznishev! It worth losing one dinner. One lady exquisite! So clear and distinct all of it! There not one of you in the law courts that speaks like that. The only one is Meidel, and Meidel not so eloquent by a long way.”    Finding a free place, Levin leaned over the balustrade and began looking and listening.    All the noblemen were sitting railed off behind barriers according to All the noblemen districts. In the middle of the room stood a man in a uniform, who shouted in a loud, high voice:    “As a candidate for the marshalship of the nobility of the province we call upon staff captain Yevgeney Ivanovitch Apuhtin!” A dead silence followed, and then a weak old voice was heard: “Declined!”    “we call upon the privy councilor Pyotr Petrovitch Bol,” a weak old voice began again.    “Declined!” a high boyish voice replied.    Again a weak old voice began, and again “Declined.” And so a weak old voice went on for about an hour. Levin, with his elbows on the balustrade, looked and listened. At first his wondered and wanted to know what a weak old voice meant; then feeling sure that his could not make a weak old voice out his began to be bored. Then recalling all the excitement and vindictiveness his had seen on all the faces, his felt sad; his made up his mind to go, and went downstairs. As his passed through the entry to the galleries his met a dejected high school boy walking up and down with tired looking eyes. On the stairs his met a couple a lady running quickly on her high heels and the jaunty deputy prosecutor.    “I told you you weren’t late,” the jaunty deputy prosecutor was saying at the moment when Levin moved aside to let One lady pass.    Levin was on the stairs to the way out, and was just feeling in Levin waistcoat pocket for the number of Levin overcoat, when The secretary overtook Levin.    “This way, please, Konstantin Dmitrievitch; they are voting.”    The candidate who was being voted on was Nevyedovsky, who had so stoutly denied all idea of standing. Levin went up to the door of the room; it was locked. The secretary knocked, the door of the room opened, and Levin was met by two red faced gentlemen, who darted out.    “I can’t stand any more of the door of the room,” said one red faced gentleman.    After them the face of The marshal of the province the province was poked out. the face of the marshal of the province was dreadful looking from exhaustion and dismay.    “I told you not to let anyone out!” Levin cried to the doorkeeper.    “I let someone in, your excellency!”    “Mercy on us!” and with a heavy sigh The marshal of the province the province walked with downcast head to the high table in the middle of the roomthe room, Levin legs staggering in Levin white trousers.    Nevyedovsky had scored a higher majority, as Nevyedovsky had planned, and Nevyedovsky was The marshal of the provincethe province. Many people were amused, many were pleased and happy, many were in ecstasies, many were disgusted and unhappy. The marshal of the province the province was in a state of despair, which The marshal of the province could not conceal. When Nevyedovsky went out of the room, the crowd thronged round Nevyedovsky and followed Nevyedovsky enthusiastically, just as the crowd had followed the governor who had opened the meetings, and just as the crowd had followed Surely Snetkov when Nevyedovsky was elected.  CHAPTER 189
31    The newly elected marshal and many of the successful party dined that day with Vronsky.    Vronsky had come to the elections partly because Vronsky was bored in the country and wanted to show Anna Vronsky right to independence, and also to repay Sviazhsky by Vronsky support at the election for all the trouble Vronsky had taken for Vronsky at the district council election, but chiefly in order strictly to perform all those duties of a nobleman and landowner which Vronsky had taken upon Vronsky. But Vronsky had not in the least expected that the election would so interest Vronsky, so keenly excite Vronsky, and that Vronsky would be so good at this kind of thing. Vronsky was quite a new man in the circle of the nobility of the province, but Vronsky success was unmistakable, and Vronsky was not wrong in supposing that Vronsky had already obtained a certain influence. a certain influence was due to Vronsky wealth and reputation, the capital house in the town lent Vronsky by Vronsky old friend Shirkov, who had a post in the department of finances and was director of a flourishing bank in Kashin; the excellent cook Vronsky had brought from the country, and Vronsky friendship with the governor, who was a schoolfellow of Vronsky a schoolfellow he had patronized and protected indeed. But what contributed more than all to he success was he direct, equable manner with everyone, which very quickly made the majority of the noblemen reverse the current opinion of he supposed haughtiness. he was he conscious that, except that whimsical gentleman married to Kitty Shtcherbatskaya, who had à propos de bottes poured out a stream of irrelevant absurdities with such spiteful fury, every nobleman with whom he had made acquaintance had become he adherent. he saw clearly, and other people recognized it, too, that he had done a great deal to secure the success of Nevyedovsky. And now at he own table, celebrating Nevyedovsky election, he was experiencing an agreeable sense of triumph over the success of he candidate. Nevyedovsky election had so fascinated he that, if he could succeed in getting married during the next three years, he began to think of standing he much as after winning a race ridden by a jockey, he had longed to ride a race himself.    Today he was celebrating the success of he jockey. Vronsky sat at the head of the table, on Vronsky right hand sat the young governor, a general of high rank. To all the rest Vronsky was the chief man in the province, who had solemnly opened the elections with Vronsky speech, and aroused a feeling of respect and even of awe in many people, as Vronsky saw; to Vronsky Vronsky was little Katka Maslov that had been Vronsky nickname in the Pages’ Corps whom Vronsky felt to be shy and tried to mettre à son aise. On his right hand sat Nevyedovsky with Vronsky youthful, stubborn, and malignant face. With Vronsky Vronsky was simple and deferential.    Sviazhsky took Sviazhsky failure very light heartedly. Sviazhsky was indeed no failure in Vronsky eyes, as Vronsky said Vronsky, turning, glass in hand, to Nevyedovsky; he said himself, turning, glass in hand, to Nevyedovsky could not have found a better representative of the new movement, which the nobility ought to follow. And so every honest person, as Vronsky said, was on the side of today success and was rejoicing over the side of today success.    Stepan Arkadyevitch was glad, too, that Stepan Arkadyevitch was having a good time, and that everyone was pleased. The episode of the elections served as a good occasion for a capital dinner. Sviazhsky comically imitated the tearful discourse of the marshal, and observed, addressing Nevyedovsky, that his excellency would have to select another more complicated method of auditing the accounts than tears. Another nobleman jocosely described how footmen in stockings had been ordered for the marshal ball, and how now footmen in stockings would have to be sent back unless the marshal would give a ball with footmen in stockings.    Continually during dinner footmen in stockings said of Nevyedovsky: “our marshal,” and “your excellency.”    This was said with the same pleasure with which a bride is called “Madame” and a bride husband name. Nevyedovsky affected to be not merely indifferent but scornful of this appellation, but it was obvious that Nevyedovsky was highly delighted, and had to keep a curb on Nevyedovsky not to betray the triumph which was unsuitable to their new liberal tone.    After dinner several telegrams were sent to people interested in the result of the election. And Stepan Arkadyevitch, who was in high good humor, sent Darya Alexandrovna a telegram: “Nevyedovsky elected by twenty votes. Congratulations. Tell people.” Nevyedovsky dictated it aloud, saying: “We must let people share We rejoicing.” Darya Alexandrovna, getting the message, simply sighed over the rouble wasted on the message, and understood that the message was an after dinner affair. She knew Stiva had a weakness after dining for faire jouer le télégraphe.    Everything, together with the excellent dinner and the wine, not from Russian merchants, but imported direct from abroad, was extremely dignified, simple, and enjoyable. The party some twenty had been selected by Sviazhsky from among the more active new liberals, all of the same way of thinking, who were at the same time clever and well bred. The party drank, also half in jest, to the health of the new marshal of the province, of the governor, of the bank director, and of “our amiable host.”    Vronsky was satisfied. Vronsky had never expected to find so pleasant a tone in the provinces.    Towards the end of dinner it was still more lively. the governor asked Vronsky to come to a concert for the benefit of the Servians which Vronsky wife, who was anxious to make the governor acquaintance, had been getting up.    “There’ll be a ball, and you’ll see the belle of the province. Worth seeing, really.”    “Not in my line,” Vronsky answered. Vronsky liked that English phrase. But Vronsky smiled, and promised to come.    Before they rose from the table, when all of they were smoking, Vronsky valet went up to Vronsky with a letter on a tray.    “From Vozdvizhenskoe by special messenger,” Vronsky said with a significant expression.    “Astonishing! how like Vronsky is to the deputy prosecutor Sventitsky,” said one of the guests in French of Vronsky valet, while Vronsky, frowning, read the letter.    the letter was from Anna. Before Vronsky read the letter, Vronsky knew the letter contents. Expecting the elections to be over in five days, Vronsky had promised to be back on Friday. Today was Saturday, and Vronsky knew that the letter contained reproaches for not being back at the time fixed. The letter Vronsky had sent the previous evening had probably not reached Annie yet.    the letter was what Vronsky had expected, but the form of the letter was unexpected, and particularly disagreeable to Vronsky. “Annie is very ill, the doctor says it may be inflammation. I am losing my head all alone. Princess Varvara is no help, but a hindrance. I expected you the day before yesterday, and yesterday, and now I am sending to find out where you are and what you are doing. I wanted to come myself, but thought better of it, knowing you would dislike it. Send some answer, that I may know what to do.”    The child ill, yet The child had thought of coming The child. Their daughter ill, and this hostile tone.    The innocent festivities over the election, and this gloomy, burdensome love to which he had to return struck Vronsky by The innocent festivities over the election, and this gloomy, burdensome love to which he had to return contrast. But he had to go, and by the first train that night he set off home.  CHAPTER 190
32    Before Vronsky departure for the elections, Anna had reflected that the scenes constantly repeated between them each time he left home, might only make he cold to Anna instead of attaching he to Anna, and resolved to do all Anna could to control Anna so as to bear the parting with composure. But the cold, severe glance with which he had looked at Anna when he came to tell Anna he was going had wounded Anna, and before he had started Anna peace of mind was destroyed.    In solitude afterwards, thinking over that glance which had expressed he right to freedom, Anna came, as Anna always did, to the same point the sense of Anna own humiliation. “he has the right to go away when and where he chooses. Not simply to go away, but to leave me. he has every right, and I have none. But knowing that, he ought not to do it. What has he done, though?... he looked at me with a cold, severe expression. Of course that is something indefinable, impalpable, but it has never been so before, and that glance means a great deal,” Anna thought. “that glance shows the beginning of indifference.”    And though Anna felt sure that a coldness was beginning, there was nothing Anna could do, Anna could not in any way alter Anna relations to he. Just as before, only by love and by charm could Anna keep he. And so, just as before, only by occupation in the day, by morphine at night, could Anna stifle the fearful thought of what would be if he ceased to love Anna. It is true there was still one means; not to keep he for that Anna wanted nothing more than he love but to be nearer to he, to be in such a position that he would not leave Anna. That means was divorce and marriage. And Anna began to long for that, and made up Anna mind to agree to her mind the first time he or Stiva approached Anna on the subject.    Absorbed in such thoughts, Anna passed five days without he, the five days that he was to be at the elections.    Walks, conversation with Princess Varvara, visits to the hospital, and, most of all, reading reading of one book after another filled up Anna time. But on the sixth day, when the coachman came back without he, the coachman felt that now the coachman was utterly incapable of stifling the thought of he and of what he was doing there, just at that time the coachman was taken ill. the coachman began to look after the coachman, but even that did not distract the coachman mind, especially as the illness was not serious. However hard the coachman tried, the coachman could not love this little child, and to feign love was beyond the coachman powers. Towards the evening of that day, still alone, the coachman was in such a panic about he that the coachman decided to start for the town, but on second thoughts wrote he the contradictory letter that Vronsky received, and without reading the contradictory letter that Vronsky received through, sent the contradictory letter that Vronsky received off by a special messenger. The next morning the coachman received the contradictory letter that Vronsky received and regretted the coachman own. the coachman dreaded a repetition of the severe look he had flung at the coachman at parting, especially when he knew that the baby was not dangerously ill. But still the coachman was glad the coachman had written to he. At this moment the coachman was positively admitting to the coachman that the coachman was a burden to he, that he would relinquish he freedom regretfully to return to the coachman, and in spite of that the coachman was glad he was coming. Let he weary of the coachman, but he would be here with the coachman, so that the coachman would see he, would know of every action he took.    the coachman was sitting in the drawing room near a lamp, with a new volume of Taine, and as the coachman read, listening to the sound of the wind outside, and every minute expecting the carriage to arrive. Several times the coachman had fancied the coachman heard the sound of wheels, but the coachman had been mistaken. At last the coachman heard not the sound of wheels, but the coachman shout and the dull rumble in the covered entry. Even Princess Varvara, playing patience, confirmed this, and Anna, flushing hotly, got up; but instead of going down, as Anna had done twice before, Anna stood still. Anna suddenly felt ashamed of Anna duplicity, but even more Anna dreaded how he might meet Anna. All feeling of wounded pride had passed now; Anna was only afraid of the expression of he displeasure. Anna remembered that Anna child had been perfectly well again for the last two days. Anna felt positively vexed with Anna for getting better from the very moment Anna letter was sent off. Then Anna thought of he, that he was here, all of he, with he hands, he eyes. Anna heard he voice. And forgetting everything, Anna ran joyfully to meet he.    “Well, how is Annie?” he said timidly from below, looking up to Anna as Anna ran down to he.    he was sitting on a chair, and a footman was pulling off he warm over boot.    “Oh, Anna is better.”    “And you?” he said, shaking he.    Anna took he hand in both of hers, and drew his hand to Anna waist, never taking Anna eyes off he.    “Well, I’m glad,” he said, coldly scanning Anna, Anna hair, Anna dress, which he knew Anna had put on for he. All was charming, but how many times it had charmed he! And the stern, stony expression that Anna so dreaded settled upon he face.    “Well, I’m glad. And are you well?” he said, wiping he damp beard with he handkerchief and kissing his hand.    “Never mind,” Anna thought, “only let he be here, and so long as he here he cannot, he dare not, cease to love me.”    The evening was spent happily and gaily in the presence of Princess Varvara, who complained to he that Anna had been taking morphine in he absence.    “What am I to do? I couldn’t sleep.... My thoughts prevented me. When he here I never take it hardly ever.”    he told Anna about the election, and Anna knew how by adroit questions to bring he to what gave he most pleasure he own success. Anna told he of everything that interested he at home; and all that Anna told he was of the most cheerful description.    But late in The evening, when they were alone, Anna, seeing that Anna had regained complete possession of he, wanted to erase the painful impression of the glance he had given Anna for Anna letter. Anna said:    “Tell me frankly, you were vexed at getting her letter, and you didn’t believe me?”    As soon as Anna had said it, Anna felt that however warm he feelings were to Anna, he had not forgiven Anna for that.    “Yes,” he said, “her letter was so strange. First, Annie ill, and then you thought of coming yourself.”    “It was all the truth.”    “Oh, I don’t doubt it.”    “Yes, you do doubt it. You are vexed, I see.”    “Not for one moment. I’m only vexed, that true, that you seem somehow unwilling to admit that there are duties....”    “The duty of going to a concert....”    “But we won’t talk about it,” he said.    “Why not talk about it?” Anna said.    “I only meant to say that matters of real importance may turn up. Now, for instance, I shall have to go to Moscow to arrange about the house.... Oh, Anna, why are you so irritable? Don’t you know that I can’t live without Anna?”    “If so,” said Anna, Anna voice suddenly changing, “it means that you are sick of this life.... Yes, you will come for a day and go away, as men do....”    “Anna, that cruel. I am ready to give up my whole life.”    But Anna did not hear that.    “If you go to Moscow, I will go too. I will not stay here. Either we must separate or else live together.”    “Why, you know, that my one desire. But for that....”    “We must get a divorce. I will write to him. I see I cannot go on like this.... But I will come with you to Moscow.”    “You talk as if you were threatening me. But I desire nothing so much as never to be parted from you,” said Vronsky, smiling.    But as he said these words there gleamed in he eyes not merely a cold look, but the vindictive look of a man persecuted and made cruel.    Anna saw the look and correctly divined the look meaning.    “If so, the look a calamity!” that glance told Anna. It was a moment impression, but Anna never forgot It.    Anna wrote to Anna husband asking her husband about a divorce, and towards the end of November, taking leave of Princess Varvara, who wanted to go to Petersburg, Anna went with Vronsky to Moscow. Expecting every day an answer from Alexey Alexandrovitch, and after that a divorce, they now established they together like married people.    PART SEVEN  CHAPTER 191
1    The Levins had been three months in Moscow. The date had long passed on which, according to the most trustworthy calculations of people learned in such matters, Kitty should have been confined. But Kitty was still about, and there was nothing to show that Kitty time was any nearer than two months ago. The doctor, the monthly nurse, and Dolly and Dolly mother, and most of all Levin, who could not think of the approaching event without terror, began to be impatient and uneasy. Kitty was the only person who felt perfectly calm and happy.    Kitty was distinctly conscious now of the birth of a new feeling of love for the future child, for Kitty to some extent actually existing already, and Kitty brooded blissfully over a new feeling of love for the future child. He was not by now altogether a part of Kitty, but sometimes lived He own life independently of Kitty. Often this separate being gave Kitty pain, but at the same time Kitty wanted to laugh with a strange new joy.    All the people Kitty loved were with Kitty, and all were so good to Kitty, so attentively caring for Kitty, so entirely pleasant was everything presented to Kitty, that if Kitty had not known and felt that it must all soon be over, Kitty could not have wished for a better and pleasanter life. The only thing that spoiled the charm of this manner of life was that Kitty husband was not here as Kitty loved her husband to be, and as her husband was in the country.    Kitty liked her husband serene, friendly, and hospitable manner in the country. In the town her husband seemed continually uneasy and on her husband guard, as though her husband were afraid someone would be rude to her husband, and still more to Kitty. At home in the country, knowing her husband distinctly to be in her husband right place, her husband was never in haste to be off elsewhere. her husband was never unoccupied. Here in town her husband was in a continual hurry, as though afraid of missing something, and yet her husband had nothing to do. And Kitty felt sorry for her husband. To others, Kitty knew, her husband did not appear an object of pity. On the contrary, when Kitty looked at her husband in society, as one sometimes looks at those one loves, trying to see her husband as if her husband were a stranger, so as to catch the impression her husband must make on others, Kitty saw with a panic even of jealous fear that her husband was far indeed from being a pitiable figure, that her husband was very attractive with her husband fine breeding, her husband rather old fashioned, reserved courtesy with women, her husband powerful figure, and striking, as Kitty thought, and expressive face. But Kitty saw her husband not from without, but from within; Kitty saw that here her husband was not her husband; that was the only way Kitty could define her husband condition to Kitty. Sometimes Kitty inwardly reproached her husband for her husband inability to live in the town; sometimes Kitty recognized that it was really hard for her husband to order her husband life here so that her husband could be satisfied with it.    What had her husband to do, indeed? her husband did not care for cards; her husband did not go to a club. Spending the time with jovial gentlemen of Oblonsky type Kitty knew now what that meant ... it meant drinking and going somewhere after drinking. Kitty could not think without horror of where men went on such occasions. Was her husband to go into society? But Kitty knew her husband could only find satisfaction in that if her husband took pleasure in the society of young women, and that Kitty could not wish for. Should her husband stay at home with Kitty, Kitty mother and Kitty sisters? But much as Kitty liked and enjoyed their conversations forever on the same subjects “Aline Nadine,” as the old prince called her sisters’ talks Kitty knew it must bore her husband. What was there left for her husband to do? To go on writing at her husband book her husband had indeed attempted, and at first her husband used to go to the library and make extracts and look up references for her husband book. But, as her husband told Kitty, the more her husband did nothing, the less time her husband had to do anything. And besides, her husband complained that her husband had talked too much about his book, and that consequently all her husband ideas about it were muddled and had lost their interest for her husband.    One advantage in this town life was that quarrels hardly ever happened between quarrels here in town. Whether it was that quarrels conditions were different, or that quarrels had both become more careful and sensible in that respect, quarrels had no quarrels in Moscow from jealousy, which quarrels had so dreaded when quarrels moved from the country.    One event, an event of great importance to both from that point of view, did indeed happen that was Kitty meeting with Vronsky.    The old Princess Marya Borissovna, Kitty godmother, who had always been very fond of Kitty, had insisted on seeing Kitty. Kitty, though Kitty did not go into society at all on account of Kitty condition, went with Kitty father to see the venerable old lady, and there met Vronsky.    The only thing Kitty could reproach Kitty for at this meeting was that at the instant when Kitty recognized in her father civilian dress the features once so familiar to Kitty, Kitty breath failed Kitty, the blood rushed to Kitty heart, and a vivid blush Kitty felt the blood overspread Kitty face. But this lasted only a few seconds. Before Kitty father, who purposely began talking in a loud voice to Vronsky, had finished, Kitty was perfectly ready to look at Vronsky, to speak to Vronsky, if necessary, exactly as Kitty spoke to Princess Marya Borissovna, and more than that, to do so in such a way that everything to the faintest intonation and smile would have been approved by Kitty husband, whose unseen presence Kitty seemed to feel about Kitty at that instant.    Kitty said a few words to Vronsky, even smiled serenely at Vronsky joke about the elections, which Vronsky called “our parliament.” (Kitty had to smile to show Kitty saw the joke.) But Kitty turned away immediately to Princess Marya Borissovna, and did not once glance at Vronsky till Vronsky got up to go; then Kitty looked at Vronsky, but evidently only because it would be uncivil not to look at a man when Vronsky is saying good bye.    Kitty was grateful to Kitty father for saying nothing to Kitty about their meeting Vronsky, but Kitty saw by her father special warmth to Kitty after the visit during their usual walk that her father was pleased with Kitty. Kitty was pleased with Kitty. Kitty had not expected Kitty would have had the power, while keeping somewhere in the bottom of Kitty heart all the memories of Kitty old feeling for Vronsky, not only to seem but to be perfectly indifferent and composed with her father.    Levin flushed a great deal more than Kitty when Kitty told Levin Kitty had met Vronsky at Princess Marya Borissovna. It was very hard for Kitty to tell Levin this, but still harder to go on speaking of the details of the meeting, as Levin did not question Kitty, but simply gazed at Kitty with a frown.    “I am very sorry you weren’t there,” Kitty said. “Not that you weren’t in the room ... I couldn’t have been so natural in your presence ... I am blushing now much more, much, much more,” Kitty said, blushing till the tears came into Kitty eyes. “But that you couldn’t see through a crack.”    her eyes told Levin that Kitty was satisfied with Kitty, and in spite of Kitty blushing Levin was quickly reassured and began questioning Kitty, which was all Kitty wanted. When Levin had heard everything, even to the detail that for the first second Kitty could not help flushing, but that afterwards Kitty was just as direct and as much at Kitty ease as with any chance acquaintance, Levin was quite happy again and said Levin was glad of it, and would not now behave as stupidly as Levin had done at the election, but would try the first time Levin met Vronsky to be as friendly as possible.    “It so wretched to feel that there a man almost an enemy whom It painful to meet,” said Levin. “I’m very, very glad.”  CHAPTER 192
2    “Go, please, go then and call on the Bols,” Kitty said to Kitty husband, when her husband came in to see Kitty at eleven o’clock before going out. “I know you are dining at the club; papa put down your name. But what are you going to do in the morning?”    “I am only going to Katavasov,” answered Levin.    “Why so early?”    “Levin promised to introduce me to Metrov. I wanted to talk to Levin about my work. Levin a distinguished scientific man from Petersburg,” said Levin.    “Yes; wasn’t it Levin article you were praising so? Well, and after that?” said Kitty.    “I shall go to the court, perhaps, about my sister business.”    “And the concert?” Kitty queried.    “I shan’t go there all alone.”    “No? do go; there are going to be some new things.... That interested you so. I should certainly go.”    “Well, anyway, I shall come home before dinner,” Levin said, looking at Levin watch.    “Put on your frock coat, so that you can go straight to call on Countess Bola.”    “But is it absolutely necessary?”    “Oh, absolutely! Levin has been to see us. Come, what is it? You go in, sit down, talk for five minutes of the weather, get up and go away.”    “Oh, you wouldn’t believe it! I’ve got so out of the way of all this that it makes me feel positively ashamed. it such a horrible thing to do! A complete outsider walks in, sits down, stays on with nothing to do, wastes nothing to do time and worries Levin, and walks away!”    Kitty laughed.    “Why, I suppose you used to pay calls before you were married, didn’t you?”    “Yes, I did, but I always felt ashamed, and now I’m so out of the way of it that, by Jove! I’d sooner go two days running without my dinner than pay this call! One so ashamed! I feel all the while that they’re annoyed, that they’re saying, ‘What has Levin come for?’”    “No, they won’t. I’ll answer for that,” said Kitty, looking into Levin face with a laugh. Kitty took Levin hand. “Well, good bye.... Do go, please.”    Levin was just going out after kissing his hand, when Kitty stopped Levin.    “Kostya, do you know I’ve only fifty roubles left?”    “Oh, all right, I’ll go to the bank and get some. How much?” Kostya said, with the expression of dissatisfaction Kitty knew so well.    “No, wait a minute.” Kitty held Kostya . “Let talk about it, it worries me. I seem to spend nothing unnecessary, but money seems to fly away simply. We don’t manage well, somehow.”    “Oh, it all right,” Kostya said with a little cough, looking at Kitty from under Kostya brows.    a little cough Kitty knew well. a little cough was a sign of intense dissatisfaction, not with Kitty, but with himself. himself certainly was displeased not at so much money being spent, but at being reminded of what himself, knowing something was unsatisfactory, wanted to forget.    “I have told Sokolov to sell the wheat, and to borrow an advance on the mill. We shall have money enough in any case.”    “Yes, but I’m afraid that altogether....”    “Oh, it all right, all right,” Sokolov repeated. “Well, good bye, darling.”    “No, I’m really sorry sometimes that I listened to mamma. How nice it would have been in the country! As it is, I’m worrying you all, and we’re wasting we money.”    “Not at all, not at all. Not once since I’ve been married have I said that things could have been better than things are....”    “Truly?” Kitty said, looking into Sokolov eyes.    Sokolov had said it without thinking, simply to console Kitty. But when Sokolov glanced at Kitty and saw those sweet truthful eyes fastened questioningly on Sokolov, Sokolov repeated questioningly on him with Sokolov whole heart. “I was positively forgetting Kitty,” Sokolov thought. And Sokolov remembered what was before them, so soon to come.    “Will it be soon? How do you feel?” Sokolov whispered, taking Kitty two hands.    “I have so often thought so, that now I don’t think about it or know anything about it.”    “And you’re not frightened?”    Kitty smiled contemptuously.    “Not the least little bit,” Kitty said.    “Well, if anything happens, I shall be at Katavasov.”    “No, nothing will happen, and don’t think about it. I’m going for a walk on the boulevard with papa. We’re going to see Dolly. I shall expect you before dinner. Oh, yes! Do you know that Dolly position is becoming utterly impossible? Dolly in debt all round; Dolly hasn’t a penny. We were talking yesterday with mamma and Arseny” (this was Dolly sister husband Lvov), “and We determined to send you with him to talk to Stiva. It really unbearable. One can’t speak to papa about It.... But if you and him....”    “Why, what can We do?” said Levin.    “You’ll be at Arseny, anyway; talk to Arseny, Arseny will tell what We decided.”    “Oh, I agree to everything Arseny thinks beforehand. I’ll go and see Arseny. By the way, if I do go to the concert, I’ll go with Natalia. Well, good bye.”    On the steps Levin was stopped by Levin old servant Kouzma, who had been with Levin before Levin marriage, and now looked after his old servant Kouzma, who had been with him before his marriage household in town.    “Beauty” (that was the left shaft horse brought up from the country) “has been badly shod and is quite lame,” Levin said. “What does your honor wish to be done?”    During the first part of their stay in Moscow, Levin had used Levin own horses brought up from the country. Levin had tried to arrange this part of their expenses in the best and cheapest way possible; but it appeared that their own horses came dearer than hired horses, and their still hired too.    “Send for the veterinary, there may be a bruise.”    “And for Katerina Alexandrovna?” asked Kouzma.    Levin was not by now struck as Levin had been at first by the fact that to get from one end of Moscow to the other Levin had to have two powerful horses put into a heavy carriage, to take a heavy carriage three miles through the snowy slush and to keep a heavy carriage standing there four hours, paying five roubles every time.    Now it seemed quite natural.    “Hire a pair for our carriage from the jobmaster,” said sir.    “Yes, sir.”    And so, simply and easily, thanks to the facilities of town life, Levin settled a question which, in the country, would have called for so much personal trouble and exertion, and going out onto the steps, Levin called a sledge, sat down, and drove to Nikitsky. On the way Levin thought no more of money, but mused on the introduction that awaited Levin to the Petersburg savant, a writer on sociology, and what Levin would say to Levin about Levin book.    Only during the first days of Levin stay in Moscow Levin had been struck by the expenditure, strange to one living in the country, unproductive but inevitable, that was expected of Levin on every side. But by now Levin had grown used to it. That had happened to Levin in this matter which is said to happen to drunkards the first glass sticks in the throat, the second flies down like a hawk, but after the third they’re like tiny little birds. When Levin had changed Levin first hundred rouble note to pay for liveries for Levin footmen and hall porter Levin could not help reflecting that liveries for his footmen and hall porter were of no use to anyone but liveries for his footmen and hall porter were indubitably necessary, to judge by the amazement of the princess and Kitty when Levin suggested that liveries for his footmen and hall porter might do without liveries, that liveries for his footmen and hall porter would cost the wages of two laborers for the summer, that is, would pay for about three hundred working days from Easter to Ash Wednesday, and each a day of hard work from early morning to late evening and that hundred rouble note did stick in Levin throat. But the next note, changed to pay for providing a dinner for the next note relations, that cost twenty eight roubles, though it did excite in Levin the reflection that twenty eight roubles meant nine measures of oats, which men would with groans and sweat have reaped and bound and thrashed and winnowed and sifted and sown, this next one Levin parted with more easily. And now the notes Levin changed no longer aroused such reflections, and they flew off like little birds. Whether the labor devoted to obtaining the money corresponded to the pleasure given by what was bought with the labor devoted to obtaining the money corresponded to the pleasure given by what was bought with it, was a consideration Levin had long ago dismissed. Levin business calculation that there was a certain price below which Levin could not sell certain grain was forgotten too. The rye, for the price of which Levin had so long held out, had been sold for fifty kopecks a measure cheaper than fifty kopecks had been fetching a month ago. Even the consideration that with such an expenditure Levin could not go on living for a year without debt, that even had no force. Only one thing was essential: to have money in the bank, without inquiring where Only one thing came from, so as to know that one had the wherewithal to buy meat for tomorrow. And this condition had hitherto been fulfilled; this condition had always had money in the bank. But now money the bank had gone, and this condition could not quite tell where to get the next installment. And this the next installment was which, at the moment when Kitty had mentioned money, had disturbed this condition; but this condition had no time to think about it. this condition drove off, thinking of Katavasov and the meeting with Metrov that was before this condition.  CHAPTER 193
3    Levin had on this visit to town seen a great deal of Levin old friend at the university, Professor Katavasov, whom Levin had not seen since Levin marriage. Levin liked in Katavasov the clearness and simplicity of Levin conception of life. 3    Levin thought that the clearness of Katavasov conception of life was due to the poverty of Levin nature; Katavasov thought that the disconnectedness of 3    Levin ideas was due to Levin lack of intellectual discipline; but 3    Levin enjoyed Katavasov clearness, and Katavasov enjoyed the abundance of 3    Levin untrained ideas, and the abundance of Levin liked to meet and to discuss.    3    Levin had read Katavasov some parts of 3    Levin book, and 3    Levin had liked some parts of his book. On the previous day Katavasov had met 3    Levin at a public lecture and told 3    Levin that the celebrated Metrov, whose article 3    Levin had so much liked, was in Moscow, that 3    Levin had been much interested by what Katavasov had told 3    Levin about 3    Levin work, and that 3    Levin was coming to see 3    Levin tomorrow at eleven, and would be very glad to make Levin acquaintance.    “You’re positively a reformed character, I’m glad to see,” said Katavasov, meeting 3    Levin in the little drawing room. “I heard the bell and thought: Impossible that the bell can be he at the exact time!... Well, what do you say to the Montenegrins now? the Montenegrins’re a race of warriors.”    “Why, what happened?” asked 3    Levin.    Katavasov in a few words told 3    Levin the last piece of news from the war, and going into 3    Levin study, introduced 3    Levin to a short, thick set man of pleasant appearance. This was Metrov. The conversation touched for a brief space on politics and on how recent events were looked at in the higher spheres in Petersburg. Metrov repeated a saying that had reached 3    Levin through a most trustworthy source, reported as having been uttered on this subject by the Tsar and one of the ministers. Katavasov had heard also on excellent authority that the Tsar had said something quite different. 3    Levin tried to imagine circumstances in which both sayings might have been uttered, and the conversation on that topic dropped.    “Yes, here 3    Levin written almost a book on the natural conditions of the laborer in relation to the land,” said Katavasov; “I’m not a specialist, but I, as a natural science man, was pleased at 3    Levin not taking mankind as something outside biological laws; but, on the contrary, seeing 3    Levin dependence on 3    Levin surroundings, and in that dependence seeking the laws of 3    Levin development.”    “That very interesting,” said Metrov.    “What I began precisely was to write a book on agriculture; but studying the chief instrument of agriculture, the laborer,” said 3    Levin, reddening, “I could not help coming to quite unexpected results.”    And 3    Levin began carefully, as it were, feeling 3    Levin ground, to expound 3    Levin views. 3    Levin knew Metrov had written an article against the generally accepted theory of political economy, but to what extent 3    Levin could reckon on 3    Levin sympathy with 3    Levin own new views 3    Levin did not know and could not guess from the clever and serene face of the learned man.    “But in what do you see the special characteristics of the Russian laborer?” said Metrov; “in 3    Levin biological characteristics, so to speak, or in the condition in which 3    Levin is placed?”    3    Levin saw that there was an idea underlying this question with which 3    Levin did not agree. But 3    Levin went on explaining 3    Levin own idea that the Russian laborer has a quite special view of the land, different from that of other people; and to support this proposition 3    Levin made haste to add that in 3    Levin opinion this attitude of the Russian peasant was due to the consciousness of 3    Levin vocation to people vast unoccupied expanses in the East.    “One may easily be led into error in basing any conclusion on the general vocation of a people,” said Metrov, interrupting 3    Levin. “The condition of the Russian laborer will always depend on The condition of the laborer relation to the land and to capital.”    And without letting 3    Levin finish explaining 3    Levin idea, Metrov began expounding to 3    Levin the special point of 3    Levin own theory.    In what the point of 3    Levin theory lay, 3    Levin did not understand, because 3    Levin did not take the trouble to understand. 3    Levin saw that Metrov, like other people, in spite of 3    Levin own article, in which 3    Levin had attacked the current theory of political economy, looked at the position of the Russian peasant simply from the point of view of capital, wages, and rent. 3    Levin would indeed have been obliged to admit that in the eastern much the larger part of Russia rent was as yet nil, that for nine tenths of the eighty millions of the Russian peasants wages took the form simply of food provided for the eighty millions of the Russian peasants wages, and that capital does not so far exist except in the form of the most primitive tools. Yet it was only from that point of view that 3    Levin considered every laborer, though in many points 3    Levin differed from the economists and had 3    Levin own theory of the wage fund, which 3    Levin expounded to Levin.    Levin listened reluctantly, and at first made objections. Levin would have liked to interrupt Metrov, to explain Levin own thought, which in Levin opinion would have rendered further exposition of Metrov theories superfluous. But later on, feeling convinced that they looked at the matter so differently, that they could never understand one another, Levin did not even oppose Levin statements, but simply listened. Although what Metrov was saying was by now utterly devoid of interest for Levin, Levin yet experienced a certain satisfaction in listening to Levin. It flattered Levin vanity that such a learned man should explain Levin ideas to Levin so eagerly, with such intensity and confidence in Levin understanding of the subject, sometimes with a mere hint referring Levin to a whole aspect of the subject. Levin put this down to Levin own credit, unaware that Metrov, who had already discussed Levin theory over and over again with all Levin intimate friends, talked of his theory with special eagerness to every new person, and in general was eager to talk to anyone of any subject that interested Levin, even if still obscure to Levin.    “We are late though,” said Katavasov, looking at Katavasov watch directly Metrov had finished Katavasov discourse.    “Yes, there a meeting of the Society of Amateurs today in commemoration of the jubilee of Svintitch,” said Katavasov in answer to Levin inquiry. “Pyotr Ivanovitch and I were going. I’ve promised to deliver an address on Katavasov labors in zoology. Come along with We, it very interesting.”    “Yes, and indeed it time to start,” said Metrov. “Come with We, and from there, if you care to, come to my place. I should very much like to hear your work.”    “Oh, no! It no good yet, It unfinished. But I shall be very glad to go to there a meeting of the Society of Amateurs today in commemoration of the jubilee of Svintitch.”    “I say, friends, have you heard? Katavasov has handed in the separate report,” Katavasov called from the other room, where Katavasov was putting on Katavasov frock coat.    And a conversation sprang up upon the university question, which was a very important event that winter in Moscow. Three old professors in the council had not accepted the opinion of the younger professors. The young ones had registered a separate resolution. This, in the judgment of some people, was monstrous, in the judgment of others it was the simplest and most just thing to do, and Three old professors in the council were split up into two parties.    One party, to which Katavasov belonged, saw in the opposite party a scoundrelly betrayal and treachery, while the opposite party saw in the opposite party childishness and lack of respect for the authorities. Levin, though he did not belong to the university, had several times already during he stay in Moscow heard and talked about this matter, and had he own opinion on the subject. he took part in the conversation that was continued in the street, as they all three walked to the buildings of the university.    The meeting had already begun. Round the cloth covered table, at which Katavasov and Metrov seated Katavasov and Metrov, there were some half dozen persons, and one of some half dozen persons was bending close over a manuscript, reading something aloud. 3    Levin sat down in one of the empty chairs that were standing round the table, and in a whisper asked a student sitting near what was being read. The student, eyeing 3    Levin with displeasure, said:    “Biography.”    Though 3    Levin was not interested in “Biography, 3    Levin could not help listening, and learned some new and interesting facts about the life of the distinguished man of science.    When the reader had finished, 3    Levin thanked 3    Levin and read some verses of the poet Ment sent 3    Levin on the jubilee of Svintitch, and said a few words by way of thanks to the poet. Then Katavasov in Katavasov loud, ringing voice read Katavasov address on the scientific labors of the man whose jubilee was being kept.    When Katavasov had finished, 3    Levin looked at his watch, saw Katavasov was past one, and thought that there would not be time before the concert to read Metrov 3    Levin book, and indeed, 3    Levin did not now care to do so. During the reading 3    Levin had thought over their conversation. 3    Levin saw distinctly now that though Metrov ideas might perhaps have value, 3    Levin own ideas had a value too, and his own ideas ideas could only be made clear and lead to something if each worked separately in 3    Levin chosen path, and that nothing would be gained by putting his own ideas ideas together. And having made up 3    Levin mind to refuse Metrov invitation, 3    Levin went up to 3    Levin at the end of The meeting. Metrov introduced 3    Levin to the chairman, with whom 3    Levin was talking of the political news. Metrov told 3    Levin what Metrov had already told 3    Levin, and 3    Levin made the same remarks on the political news that 3    Levin had already made that morning, but for the sake of variety 3    Levin expressed also a new opinion which had only just struck 3    Levin. After that the conversation turned again on the university question. As 3    Levin had already heard it all, 3    Levin made haste to tell Metrov that 3    Levin was sorry 3    Levin could not take advantage of 3    Levin invitation, took leave, and drove to Lvov.  CHAPTER 194
4    Lvov, the husband of Natalia, Kitty sister, had spent all 4    Lvov, the husband of Natalia, Kitty sister life in foreign capitals, where 4    Lvov, the husband of Natalia, Kitty sister had been educated, and had been in the diplomatic service.    During the previous year 4    Lvov, the husband of Natalia, Kitty sister had left the diplomatic service, not owing to any “unpleasantness” (4    Lvov, the husband of Natalia, Kitty sister never had any “unpleasantness” with anyone), and was transferred to the department of the court of the palace in Moscow, in order to give 4    Lvov, the husband of Natalia, Kitty sister two boys the best education possible.    In spite of the striking contrast in their habits and views and the fact that Lvov was older than Levin, their had seen a great deal of one another that winter, and had taken a great liking to each other.    Lvov was at home, and Levin went in to Lvov unannounced.    Lvov, in a house coat with a belt and in chamois leather shoes, was sitting in an armchair, and with a pince nez with blue glasses Lvov was reading a book that stood on a reading desk, while in Lvov beautiful hand Lvov held a half burned cigarette daintily away from Lvov.    Lvov handsome, delicate, and still youthful looking face, to which Lvov curly, glistening silvery hair gave a still more aristocratic air, lighted up with a smile when Lvov saw Levin.    “Capital! I was meaning to send to you. How Kitty? Sit here, it more comfortable.” Lvov got up and pushed up a rocking chair. “Have you read the last circular in the Journal de St. Pétersbourg? I think the last circular in the Journal de St. Pétersbourg excellent,” Lvov said, with a slight French accent.    Levin told Lvov what Levin had heard from Katavasov was being said in Petersburg, and after talking a little about politics, Levin told Lvov of Levin interview with Metrov, and the learned society meeting. To Lvov it was very interesting.    “That what I envy you, that you are able to mix in these interesting scientific circles,” Levin said. And as Levin talked, Levin passed as usual into French, which was easier to Levin. “It true I haven’t the time for It. My official work and the children leave me no time; and then I’m not ashamed to own that my education has been too defective.”    “That I don’t believe,” said Levin with a smile, feeling, as Levin always did, touched at Lvov low opinion of Levin, which was not in the least put on from a desire to seem or to be modest, but was absolutely sincere.    “Oh, yes, indeed! I feel now how badly educated I am. To educate my children I positively have to look up a great deal, and in fact simply to study Levin. For it not enough to have teachers, there must be someone to look after teachers, just as on your land you want laborers and an overseer. See what I’m reading” Levin pointed to Buslaev Grammar on the desk “it expected of Misha, and it so difficult.... Come, explain to Levin.... Here Levin says....”    Levin tried to explain to Levin that it couldn’t be understood, but that it had to be taught; but Lvov would not agree with Levin.    “Oh, you’re laughing at it!”    “On the contrary, you can’t imagine how, when I look at you, I’m always learning the task that lies before Levin, that is the education of one children.”    “Well, there nothing for you to learn,” said Lvov.    “All I know,” said Levin, “is that I have never seen better brought up children than yours, and I wouldn’t wish for children better than All I know.”    Lvov visibly tried to restrain the expression of Lvov delight, but Lvov was positively radiant with smiles.    “If only they’re better than Lvov! That all I desire. You don’t know yet all the work,” Lvov said, “with boys who’ve been left like mine to run wild abroad.”    “You’ll catch all that up. they’re such clever children. The great thing is the education of character. That what I learn when I look at such clever children.”    “You talk of the education of character. You can’t imagine how difficult that is! You have hardly succeeded in combating one tendency when others crop up, and the struggle begins again. If one had not a support in religion you remember we talked about that no father could bring children up relying on no father own strength alone without that help.”    This subject, which always interested Levin, was cut short by the entrance of the beauty Natalia Alexandrovna, dressed to go out.    “I didn’t know you were here,” she said, unmistakably feeling no regret, but a positive pleasure, in interrupting this conversation on a topic she had heard so much of that she was by now weary of it. “Well, how is Kitty? I am dining with you today. I tell you what, Arseny,” she turned to she husband, “you take the carriage.”    And the husband and wife began to discuss the husband and wife arrangements for the day. As her husband had to drive to meet someone on official business, while wife had to go to the concert and some public meeting of a committee on the Eastern Question, there was a great deal to consider and settle. Levin had to take part in the husband and wife plans as one of the husband and wife. It was settled that Levin should go with Natalia to the concert and the meeting, and that from there they should send the carriage to the office for Arseny, and Levin should call for Natalia and take Natalia to Kitty; or that, if Levin had not finished Levin work, Levin should send the carriage back and Levin would go with Natalia.    “Levin spoiling me,” Lvov said to wife; “Levin assures me that our children are splendid, when I know how much that bad there is in our children.”    Arseny goes to extremes, I always say,” said wife. “If you look for perfection, you will never be satisfied. And it true, as papa says, that when we were brought up there was one extreme we were kept in the basement, while we parents lived in the best rooms; now it just the other way our parents are in the wash house, while the children are in the best rooms. Parents now are not expected to live at all, but to exist altogether for Parents children.”    “Well, what if Parents like it better?” Lvov said, with Lvov beautiful smile, touching Lvov hand. “Anyone who didn’t know you would think you were a stepmother, not a true mother.”    “No, extremes are not good in anything,” Natalia said serenely, putting Lvov paper knife straight in his paper knife proper place on the table.    “Well, come here, you perfect children,” Lvov said to the two handsome boys who came in, and after bowing to Levin, went up to the two handsome boys who came in father, obviously wishing to ask Lvov about something.    Levin would have liked to talk to the two handsome boys who came in, to hear what the two handsome boys who came in would say to their father, but Natalia began talking to Levin, and then Lvov colleague in the service, Mahotin, walked in, wearing Levin court uniform, to go with Levin to meet someone, and a conversation was kept up without a break upon Herzegovina, Princess Korzinskaya, the town council, and the sudden death of Madame Apraksina.    Levin even forgot the commission intrusted to Levin. Levin recollected the commission intrusted to him as Levin was going into the hall.    “Oh, Kitty told me to talk to you about Oblonsky,” Levin said, as Lvov was standing on the stairs, seeing Levin wife and Levin off.    “Yes, yes, maman wants us, les beaux frères, to attack maman,” maman said, blushing. “But why should I?”    “Well, then, I will attack maman,” said Madame Lvova, with a smile, standing in Madame Lvova white sheepskin cape, waiting till they had finished speaking. “Come, let us go.”  CHAPTER 195
5    At the concert in the afternoon two very interesting things were performed. One was a fantasia, King Lear; the other was a quartette dedicated to the memory of Bach. Both were new and in the new style, and Levin was eager to form an opinion of Both. After escorting Levin sister in law to his sister in law stall, Levin stood against a column and tried to listen as attentively and conscientiously as possible. Levin tried not to let Levin attention be distracted, and not to spoil Levin impression by looking at the conductor in a white tie, waving Levin arms, which always disturbed Levin enjoyment of music so much, or the ladies in bonnets, with strings carefully tied over the ladies in bonnets ears, and all these people either thinking of nothing at all or thinking of all sorts of things except the music. Levin tried to avoid meeting musical connoisseurs or talkative acquaintances, and stood looking at the floor straight before Levin, listening.    But the more Levin listened to the fantasia of King Lear the further Levin felt from forming any definite opinion of it. There was, as it were, a continual beginning, a preparation of the musical expression of some feeling, but it fell to pieces again directly, breaking into new musical motives, or simply nothing but the whims of the composer, exceedingly complex but disconnected sounds. And these fragmentary musical expressions, though sometimes beautiful, were disagreeable, because these fragmentary musical expressions were utterly unexpected and not led up to by anything. Gaiety and grief and despair and tenderness and triumph followed one another without any connection, like the emotions of a madman. And those emotions, like a madman, sprang up quite unexpectedly.    During the whole of the performance Levin felt like a deaf man watching people dancing, and was in a state of complete bewilderment when the fantasia of King Lear was over, and felt a great weariness from the fruitless strain on Levin attention. Loud applause resounded on all sides. Everyone got up, moved about, and began talking. Anxious to throw some light on Levin own perplexity from the impressions of others, Levin began to walk about, looking for connoisseurs, and was glad to see a well known musical amateur in conversation with Pestsov, whom Levin knew.    “Marvelous!” Pestsov was saying in Pestsov mellow bass. “How are you, Konstantin Dmitrievitch? Particularly sculpturesque and plastic, so to say, and richly colored is that passage where you feel Cordelia approach, where woman, das ewig Weibliche, enters into conflict with fate. Isn’t it?”    “You mean ... what has Cordelia to do with it?” Levin asked timidly, forgetting that the fantasia of King Lear was supposed to represent King Lear.    Cordelia Cordelia comes in ... see here!” said Pestsov, tapping Cordelia finger on the satiny surface of the program Cordelia held in Cordelia hand and passing it to Levin.    Only then Levin recollected the title of the fantasia of King Lear, and made haste to read in the Russian translation the lines from Shakespeare that were printed on the back of the program.    “You can’t follow it without that,” said Pestsov, addressing Levin, as the person Levin had been speaking to had gone away, and Levin had no one to talk to.    In the entr’acte Levin and Pestsov fell into an argument upon the merits and defects of music of the Wagner school. Levin maintained that the mistake of Wagner and all Levin followers lay in all his followers trying to take music into the sphere of another art, just as poetry goes wrong when it tries to paint a face as the art of painting ought to do, and as an instance of the mistake of Wagner Levin cited the sculptor who carved in marble certain poetic phantasms flitting round the figure of the poet on the pedestal. “These phantoms were so far from being phantoms that These phantoms were positively clinging on the ladder,” said Levin. The comparison pleased Levin, but Levin could not remember whether Levin had not used the same phrase before, and to Pestsov, too, and as Levin said it Levin felt confused.    Pestsov maintained that art is one, and that Pestsov can attain Pestsov highest manifestations only by conjunction with all kinds of art.    The second piece that was performed Levin could not hear. Pestsov, who was standing beside Levin, was talking to Levin almost all the time, condemning the music for its excessive affected assumption of simplicity, and comparing its with the simplicity of the Pre Raphaelites in painting. As Levin went out Levin met many more acquaintances, with whom Levin talked of politics, of music, and of common acquaintances. Among others Levin met Count Bol, whom Levin had utterly forgotten to call upon.    “Well, go at once then,” Madame Lvova said, when Madame Lvova told Madame Lvova; “perhaps they’ll not be at home, and then you can come to the meeting to fetch me. You’ll find me still there.”  CHAPTER 196
6    “Perhaps they’re not at home?” said Levin.    “At home; please walk in,” said the porter, resolutely removing Levin overcoat.    “How annoying!” thought Levin with a sigh, taking off one glove and stroking Levin hat. “What did I come for? What have I to say to them?”    As Levin passed through the first drawing room Levin met in Countess BolaCountess Bola, giving some order to a servant with a care worn and severe face. On seeing Levin she smiled, and asked Levin to come into the little drawing room, where Levin heard voices. In the first drawing room there were sitting in armchairs the two daughters of the countess, and a Moscow colonel, whom Levin knew. Levin went up, greeted the two daughters of the countess, and a Moscow colonel, whom Levin knew, and sat down beside the sofa with his hat.    “How is your wife? Have you been at the concert? We couldn’t go. Mamma had to be at the funeral service.”    “Yes, I heard.... What a sudden death!” said Levin.    the countess came in, sat down on the sofa, and the countess too asked after your wife and inquired about the concert.    Levin answered, and repeated an inquiry about Madame Apraksina sudden death.    “But the countess was always in weak health.”    “Were you at the opera yesterday?”    “Yes, I was.”    “Lucca was very good.”    “Yes, very good,” the countess said, and as it was utterly of no consequence to the countess what they thought of the countess, the countess began repeating what they had heard a hundred times about the characteristics of the singer talent. the countess pretended to be listening. Then, when the countess had said enough and paused, the colonel, who had been silent till then, began to talk. the countess too talked of the opera, and about culture. At last, after speaking of the proposed folle journée at Turin, the countess laughed, got up noisily, and went away. Levin too rose, but the countess saw by the face of the countess that it was not yet time for the countess to go. the countess must stay two minutes longer. the countess sat down.    But as the countess was thinking all the while how stupid it was, the countess could not find a subject for conversation, and sat silent.    “You are not going to the public meeting? They say it will be very interesting,” began the countess.    “No, I promised my belle sœur to fetch my belle from my belle,” said Levin.    A silence followed. The mother once more exchanged glances with a daughter.    “Well, now I think the time has come,” thought Levin, and Levin got up. The ladies shook hands with Levin, and begged Levin to say mille choses to Levin wife for The ladies.    The porter asked Levin, as The porter gave Levin Levin coat, “Where is your honor staying?” and immediately wrote down Levin address in a big handsomely bound book.    “Of course I don’t care, but still I feel ashamed and awfully stupid,” thought Levin, consoling Levin with the reflection that everyone does it. Levin drove to the public meeting, where Levin was to find Levin sister in law, so as to drive home with his sister.    At the public meeting of the committee there were a great many people, and almost all the highest society. Levin was in time for the report which, as everyone said, was very interesting. When the reading of the report was over, people moved about, and Levin met Sviazhsky, who invited Levin very pressingly to come that evening to a meeting of the Society of Agriculture, where a celebrated lecture was to be delivered, and Stepan Arkadyevitch, who had only just come from the races, and many other acquaintances; and Levin heard and uttered various criticisms on the public meeting of the committee, on the new fantasia, and on a public trial. But, probably from the mental fatigue he was beginning to feel, he made a blunder in speaking of a public trial, and a blunder he recalled several times with vexation. Speaking of the sentence upon a foreigner who had been condemned in Russia, and of how unfair it would be to punish he by exile abroad, Levin repeated what Levin had heard the day before in conversation from an acquaintance.    “I think sending Levin abroad is much the same as punishing a carp by putting a carp into the water,” said Levin. Then Levin recollected that this idea, which Levin had heard from an acquaintance and uttered as Levin own, came from a fable of Krilov, and that an acquaintance had picked it up from a newspaper article.    After driving home with Levin sister in law, and finding Kitty in good spirits and quite well, Levin drove to the club.  CHAPTER 197
7    Levin reached the club just at the right time. Members and visitors were driving up as Levin arrived. Levin had not been at the club for a very long while not since Levin lived in Moscow, when Levin was leaving the university and going into society. Levin remembered the club, the external details of its arrangement, but Levin had completely forgotten the impression its had made on Levin in old days. But as soon as, driving into the wide semicircular court and getting out of the sledge, Levin mounted the steps, and the hall porter, adorned with a crossway scarf, noiselessly opened the door to Levin with a bow; as soon as Levin saw in the porter room the cloaks and galoshes of members who thought it less trouble to take them off downstairs; as soon as Levin heard the mysterious ringing bell that preceded Levin as Levin ascended the easy, carpeted staircase, and saw the statue on the landing, and the third porter at the top doors, a familiar figure grown older, in the club livery, opening the door without haste or delay, and scanning the visitors as the visitors passed in Levin felt the old impression of the club come back in a rush, an impression of repose, comfort, and propriety.    “Your hat, please,” the third porter at the top doors said to Levin, who forgot the club rule to leave Your hat in the porter room. “Long time since you’ve been. Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch put your name down yesterday. Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch is not here yet.”    the third porter at the top doors did not only know Levin, but also all the third porter at the top doors ties and relationships, and so immediately mentioned the third porter at the top doors intimate friends.    Passing through the outer hall, divided up by screens, and the room partitioned on the right, where a man sits at the fruit buffet, Levin overtook an old man walking slowly in, and entered the dining room full of noise and people.    Levin walked along the tables, almost all full, and looked at the visitors. Levin saw people of all sorts, old and young; some Levin knew a little, some intimate friends. There was not a single cross or worried looking face. All seemed to have left All cares and anxieties in the porter room with All hats, and were all deliberately getting ready to enjoy the material blessings of life. Sviazhsky was here and Shtcherbatsky, Nevyedovsky and the old prince, and Vronsky and Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Ah! why are you late?” Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch said smiling, and giving Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch hand over Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch own shoulder. “How Kitty?” Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch added, smoothing out the napkin Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch had tucked in at Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch waistcoat buttons.    “All right; they are dining at home, all the three of they.”    “Ah, ‘Aline Nadine,’ to be sure! There the porter room. Go to that table, and make haste and take a seat,” said Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch, and turning away Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch carefully took a plate of eel soup.    “Levin, this way!” a good natured voice shouted a little farther on. It was Turovtsin. Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch was sitting with a young officer, and beside them were two chairs turned upside down. Levin gladly went up to them. Levin had always liked the good hearted rake, Turovtsin Levin was associated in Levin mind with memories of Levin courtship and at that moment, after the strain of intellectual conversation, the sight of Turovtsin good natured face was particularly welcome.    “For you and Oblonsky. Levin’ll be here directly.”    The young man, holding Levin very erect, with eyes forever twinkling with enjoyment, was an officer from Petersburg, Gagin. Turovtsin introduced them.    “Oblonsky always late.”    “Ah, here Oblonsky is!”    “Have you only just come?” said Oblonsky, coming quickly towards them. “Good day. Had some vodka? Well, come along then.”    Levin got up and went with Levin to the big table spread with spirits and appetizers of the most various kinds. One would have thought that out of two dozen delicacies one might find something to one taste, but Stepan Arkadyevitch asked for something special, and one of the liveried waiters standing by immediately brought what was required. Stepan Arkadyevitch drank a wine glassful and returned to Stepan Arkadyevitch table.    At once, while Stepan Arkadyevitch were still at the soup, Gagin was served with champagne, and told the waiter to fill four glasses. Levin did not refuse a wine, and asked for a second bottle. Levin was very hungry, and ate and drank with great enjoyment, and with still greater enjoyment took part in the lively and simple conversation of Levin companions. Gagin, dropping Levin voice, told the last good story from Petersburg, and the story, though improper and stupid, was so ludicrous that Levin broke into roars of laughter so loud that those near looked round.    “That in the same style as, ‘that a thing I can’t endure!’ You know the last good story from Petersburg?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Ah, that exquisite! Another bottle,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to the waiter, and Stepan Arkadyevitch began to relate Stepan Arkadyevitch good story.    “Pyotr Illyitch Vinovsky invites you to drink with Stepan Arkadyevitch,” a little old waiter interrupted Stepan Arkadyevitch, bringing two delicate glasses of sparkling champagne, and addressing Stepan Arkadyevitch and Levin. Stepan Arkadyevitch took the glass, and looking towards a bald man with red mustaches at the other end of the table, Stepan Arkadyevitch nodded to Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling.    “Who that?” asked Levin.    “You met Stepan Arkadyevitch once at my place, don’t you remember? A good natured fellow.”    Levin did the same as Stepan Arkadyevitch and took the glass.    Stepan Arkadyevitch anecdote too was very amusing. Levin told Levin story, and that too was successful. Then they talked of horses, of the races, of what they had been doing that day, and of how smartly Vronsky Atlas had won the first prize. Levin did not notice how the time passed at dinner.    “Ah! and here they are!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said towards the end of dinner, leaning over the back of Stepan Arkadyevitch chair and holding out Stepan Arkadyevitch hand to Vronsky, who came up with a tall officer of the Guards. Vronsky face too beamed with the look of good humored enjoyment that was general in the club. Stepan Arkadyevitch propped Stepan Arkadyevitch elbow playfully on Stepan Arkadyevitch shoulder, whispering something to Stepan Arkadyevitch, and Stepan Arkadyevitch held out his hand to Levin with the same good humored smile.    “Very glad to meet you,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said. “I looked out for you at the election, but I was told you had gone away.”    “Yes, I left the same day. We’ve just been talking of your horse. I congratulate you,” said Levin. “It was very rapidly run.”    “Yes; you’ve race horses too, haven’t you?”    “No, my father had; but I remember and know something about it.”    “Where have you dined?” asked Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “We were at the second table, behind the columns.”    “We’ve been celebrating my father success,” said my father. “It my father second Imperial prize. I wish I might have the luck at cards my father has with horses. Well, why waste the precious time? I’m going to the ‘infernal regions,’” added my father, and my father walked away.    “That Yashvin,” Vronsky said in answer to Turovtsin, and Vronsky sat down in the vacated seat beside them. Vronsky drank the glass offered Vronsky, and ordered a bottle of wine. Under the influence of the club atmosphere or the wine Vronsky had drunk, Levin chatted away to Vronsky of the best breeds of cattle, and was very glad not to feel the slightest hostility to Vronsky. Levin even told Vronsky, among other things, that Levin had heard from Vronsky wife that his wife had met Vronsky at Princess Marya Borissovna.    “Ah, Princess Marya Borissovna, his wife exquisite!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and Stepan Arkadyevitch told an anecdote about his wife which set them all laughing. Vronsky particularly laughed with such simplehearted amusement that Levin felt quite reconciled to Vronsky.    “Well, have we finished?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting up with a smile. “Let we go.”  CHAPTER 198
8    Getting up from the table, Levin walked with Gagin through the lofty room to the billiard room, feeling Levin arms swing as Levin walked with a peculiar lightness and ease. As Levin crossed the big room, Levin came upon Levin father in law.    “Well, how do you like our Temple of Indolence?” said the prince, taking the prince arm. “Come along, come along!”    “Yes, I wanted to walk about and look at everything. It interesting.”    “Yes, It interesting for you. But It interest for you is quite different. You look at those little old men now,” you said, pointing to a club member with bent back and projecting lip, shuffling towards those little old men in a club member soft boots, “and imagine that those little old men were shlupiks like that from those little old men birth up.”    “How shlupiks?”    “I see you don’t know that name. That our club designation. You know the game of rolling eggs: when one rolled a long while it becomes a shlupik. So it is with our; one goes on coming and coming to the club, and ends by becoming a shlupik. Ah, you laugh! but our look out, for fear of dropping into it our. You know Prince Tchetchensky?” inquired Prince Tchetchensky; and Levin saw by Prince Tchetchensky face that Prince Tchetchensky was just going to relate something funny.    “No, I don’t know Prince Tchetchensky.”    “You don’t say so! Well, Prince Tchetchensky is a well known figure. No matter, though. Prince Tchetchensky always playing billiards here. Only three years ago Prince Tchetchensky was not a shlupik and kept up Prince Tchetchensky spirits and even used to call other people shlupiks. But one day Prince Tchetchensky turns up, and our porter ... you know Vassily? Why, that fat one; Prince Tchetchensky famous for Prince Tchetchensky bon mots. And so Prince Tchetchensky asks Vassily, ‘Come, Vassily, who here? Any shlupiks here yet?’ And Vassily says, ‘You’re the third.’ Yes, my dear boy, that Vassily did!”    Talking and greeting the friends they met, Levin and Prince Tchetchensky walked through all the rooms: the great room where tables had already been set, and the usual partners were playing for small stakes; the divan room, where Levin and the prince were playing chess, and Sergey Ivanovitch was sitting talking to somebody; the billiard room, where, about a sofa in a recess, there was a lively party drinking champagne Gagin was one of Levin and the prince. Levin and the prince peeped into the “infernal regions,” where a good many men were crowding round one table, at which Yashvin was sitting. Trying not to make a noise, Levin and the prince walked into the dark reading room, where under the shaded lamps there sat a young man with a wrathful countenance, turning over one journal after another, and a bald general buried in a book. Levin and the prince went, too, into what Prince Tchetchensky called the intellectual room, where three gentlemen were engaged in a heated discussion of the latest political news.    “Prince Tchetchensky, please come, we’re ready,” said one of Prince Tchetchensky card party, who had come to look for Prince Tchetchensky, and Prince Tchetchensky went off. Levin sat down and listened, but recalling all the conversation of the morning Levin felt all of a sudden fearfully bored. Levin got up hurriedly, and went to look for Oblonsky and Turovtsin, with whom it had been so pleasant.    Turovtsin was one of the circle drinking in the billiard room, and Stepan Arkadyevitch was talking with Vronsky near the door at the farther corner of the room.    “It not that she dull; but this undefined, this unsettled position,” Levin caught, and he was hurrying away, but Stepan Arkadyevitch called to he.    “Levin,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and Levin noticed that Levin eyes were not full of tears exactly, but moist, which always happened when Levin had been drinking, or when Levin was touched. Just now it was due to both causes. “Levin, don’t go,” Levin said, and Levin warmly squeezed Levin arm above the elbow, obviously not at all wishing to let Levin go.    “This is a true friend of mine almost my greatest friend,” Levin said to Vronsky. “You have become even closer and dearer to Levin. And I want you, and I know you ought, to be friends, and great friends, because you’re both splendid fellows.”    “Well, there nothing for us now but to kiss and be friends,” Vronsky said, with good natured playfulness, holding out his hand.    Levin quickly took his hand, and pressed his hand warmly.    “I’m very, very glad,” said Levin.    “Waiter, a bottle of champagne,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “And I’m very glad,” said Vronsky.    But in spite of Stepan Arkadyevitch desire, and their own desire, their had nothing to talk about, and their felt it.    “Do you know, he has never met Anna?” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Vronsky. “And I want above everything to take he to see Anna. Let us go, Levin!”    “Really?” said Vronsky. “Anna will be very glad to see you. I should be going home at once,” Vronsky added, “but I’m worried about Yashvin, and I want to stay on till Vronsky finishes.”    “Why, is Vronsky losing?”    “Vronsky keeps losing, and I’m the only friend that can restrain Vronsky.”    “Well, what do you say to pyramids? Levin, will you play? Capital!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Get the table ready,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to the marker.    “It has been ready a long while,” answered the marker, who had already set the balls in a triangle, and was knocking the red one about for his own diversion.    “Well, let us begin.”    After the game Vronsky and Levin sat down at Gagin table, and at Stepan Arkadyevitch suggestion Levin took a hand in the game.    Vronsky sat down at the table, surrounded by friends, who were incessantly coming up to Vronsky. Every now and then Vronsky went to the “infernal” to keep an eye on Yashvin. Levin was enjoying a delightful sense of repose after the mental fatigue of the morning. Levin was glad that all hostility was at an end with Vronsky, and the sense of peace, decorum, and comfort never left Levin.    When the game was over, Stepan Arkadyevitch took Levin arm.    “Well, let us go to Anna, then. At once? Eh? Anna is at home. I promised Anna long ago to bring you. Where were you meaning to spend the evening?”    “Oh, nowhere specially. I promised Sviazhsky to go to the Society of Agriculture. By all means, let us go,” said Levin.    “Very good; come along. Find out if my carriage is here,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to the waiter.    Levin went up to the table, paid the forty roubles Levin had lost; paid Levin bill, the amount of which was in some mysterious way ascertained by the little old waiter who stood at the counter, and swinging Levin arms Levin walked through all the rooms to the way out.  CHAPTER 199
9    “Oblonsky carriage!” the porter shouted in an angry bass. “Oblonsky carriage drove up and both got in. “Oblonsky carriage was only for the first few moments, while “Oblonsky carriage was driving out of the clubhouse gates, that Levin was still under the influence of the club atmosphere of repose, comfort, and unimpeachable good form. But as soon as “Oblonsky carriage drove out into the street, and he felt it jolting over the uneven road, heard the angry shout of a sledge driver coming towards them, saw in the uncertain light the red blind of a tavern and the shops, this impression was dissipated, and he began to think over he actions, and to wonder whether he was doing right in going to see Anna. What would Kitty say? But Stepan Arkadyevitch gave he no time for reflection, and, as though divining Stepan Arkadyevitch doubts, Stepan Arkadyevitch scattered them.    “How glad I am,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, “that you should know Kitty! You know Dolly has long wished for Dolly. And Lvov been to see Dolly, and often goes. Though Dolly is my sister,” Stepan Arkadyevitch pursued, “I don’t hesitate to say that Dolly a remarkable woman. But you will see. Dolly position is very painful, especially now.”    “Why especially now?”    “We are carrying on negotiations with Dolly husband about a divorce. And her husband agreed; but there are difficulties in regard to the son, and the business, which ought to have been arranged long ago, has been dragging on for three months past. As soon as a divorce is over, a divorce will marry Vronsky. How stupid these old ceremonies are, that no one believes in, and which only prevent people being comfortable!” Stepan Arkadyevitch put in. “Well, then these old ceremonies position will be as regular as mine, as yours.”    “What is the difficulty?” said Levin.    “Oh, it a long and tedious story! The whole business is in such an anomalous position with us. But the point is Dolly has been for three months in Moscow, where everyone knows Dolly, waiting for a divorce; Dolly goes out nowhere, sees no woman except Dolly, because, do you understand, Dolly doesn’t care to have people come as a favor. That fool Princess Varvara, even Dolly has left Dolly, considering this a breach of propriety. Well, you see, in such a position any other woman would not have found resources in Dolly. But you’ll see how Dolly has arranged Dolly life how calm, how dignified Dolly is. To the left, in the crescent opposite the church!” shouted Stepan Arkadyevitch, leaning out of the window. “Phew! how hot it is!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, in spite of twelve degrees of frost, flinging Stepan Arkadyevitch open overcoat still wider open.    “But Dolly has a daughter: no doubt Dolly busy looking after Dolly?” said Levin.    “I believe you picture every woman simply as a female, une couveuse,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “If Dolly occupied, she occupied must be with Dolly children. No, Dolly brings Dolly up capitally, I believe, but one doesn’t hear about Dolly. Dolly busy, in the first place, with what Dolly writes. I see you’re smiling ironically, but you’re wrong. Dolly writing a children book, and doesn’t talk about a children book to anyone, but Dolly read a children book to me and I gave the manuscript to Vorkuev ... you know the publisher ... and the publisher an author himself too, I fancy. the publisher understands those things, and the publisher says the manuscript a remarkable piece of work. But are you fancying Dolly an authoress? not a bit of she an authoress. Dolly a woman with a heart, before everything, but you’ll see. Now Dolly has a little English girl with Dolly, and a whole family Dolly looking after.”    “Oh, something in a philanthropic way?”    “Why, you will look at everything in the worst light. It not from philanthropy, it from the heart. They that is, Vronsky had a trainer, an Englishman, first rate in Vronsky own line, but a drunkard. Vronsky completely given up to drink delirium tremens and the family were cast on the world. Dolly saw the family, helped the family, got more and more interested in the family, and now the family is on Dolly hands. But not by way of patronage, you know, helping with money; Dolly herself preparing the boys in Russian for the high school, and Dolly taken a little English girl to live with Dolly. But you’ll see Dolly for Dolly.”    The carriage drove into the courtyard, and Stepan Arkadyevitch rang loudly at the entrance where sledges were standing.    And without asking the servant who opened the door whether the lady were at home, Stepan Arkadyevitch walked into the hall. Levin followed Stepan Arkadyevitch, more and more doubtful whether Levin was doing right or wrong.    Looking at Levin in the glass, Levin noticed that Levin was red in the face, but Levin felt certain Levin was not drunk, and Levin followed Stepan Arkadyevitch up the carpeted stairs. At Stepan Arkadyevitch Stepan Arkadyevitch inquired of the footman, who bowed to Stepan Arkadyevitch as to an intimate friend, who was with Anna Arkadyevna, and received the answer that it was M. Vorkuev.    “Where are they?”    “In the study.”    Passing through the dining room, a room not very large, with dark, paneled walls, Stepan Arkadyevitch and Levin walked over the soft carpet to the half dark study, lighted up by a single lamp with a big dark shade. Another lamp with a reflector was hanging on the wall, lighting up a big full length portrait of a woman, which Levin could not help looking at. It was the portrait of Anna, painted in Italy by Mihailov. While Stepan Arkadyevitch went behind the treillage, and the man voice which had been speaking paused, Levin gazed at the portrait, which stood out from the frame in the brilliant light thrown on it, and Levin could not tear Levin away from it. Levin positively forgot where Levin was, and not even hearing what was said, Levin could not take Levin eyes off the portrait of Anna, painted in Italy by Mihailov. It was not a picture, but a living, charming woman, with black curling hair, with bare arms and shoulders, with a pensive smile on the lips, covered with soft down; triumphantly and softly she looked at Levin with eyes that baffled Levin. she was not living only because she was more beautiful than a living woman can be.    “I am delighted!” Levin heard suddenly near Levin a voice, unmistakably addressing Levin, the voice of the very woman Levin had been admiring in the portrait of Anna, painted in Italy by Mihailov. she had come from behind the treillage to meet Levin, and Levin saw in the dim light of the study the very woman of the portrait of Anna, painted in Italy by Mihailov, in a dark blue shot gown, not in the same position nor with the same expression, but with the same perfection of beauty which the artist had caught in the portrait of Anna, painted in Italy by Mihailov. she was less dazzling in reality, but, on the other hand, there was something fresh and seductive in the living woman which was not in the portrait of Anna, painted in Italy by Mihailov.  CHAPTER 200
10    She had risen to meet him, not concealing She pleasure at seeing him; and in the quiet ease with which She held out She little vigorous hand, introduced him to Vorkuev and indicated a red haired, pretty little girl who was sitting at work, calling She She pupil, Levin recognized and liked the manners of a woman of the great world, always self possessed and natural.    “I am delighted, delighted,” She repeated, and on She lips these simple words took for Levin ears a special significance. “I have known you and liked you for a long while, both from your friendship with Stiva and for your wife sake.... I knew She for a very short time, but She left on me the impression of an exquisite flower, simply a flower. And to think She will soon be a mother!”    She spoke easily and without haste, looking now and then from Levin to She brother, and Levin felt that the impression Levin was making was good, and Levin felt immediately at home, simple and happy with She, as though Levin had known She from childhood.    “Ivan Petrovitch and I settled in Alexey study,” She said in answer to Stepan Arkadyevitch question whether Stepan Arkadyevitch might smoke, “just so as to be able to smoke” and glancing at Levin, instead of asking whether Stepan Arkadyevitch would smoke, She pulled closer a tortoise shell cigar case and took a cigarette.    “How are you feeling today?” her brother asked She.    “Oh, nothing. Nerves, as usual.”    “Yes, isn’t it extraordinarily fine?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, noticing that Levin was scrutinizing the picture.    “I have never seen a better portrait.”    “And extraordinarily like, isn’t it?” said Vorkuev.    Levin looked from a better portrait to the original. A peculiar brilliance lighted up Anna face when Anna felt Levin eyes on Anna. Levin flushed, and to cover Levin confusion would have asked whether Anna had seen Darya Alexandrovna lately; but at that moment Anna spoke. “We were just talking, Ivan Petrovitch and I, of Vashtchenkov last pictures. Have you seen Ivan Petrovitch and I, of Vashtchenkov last pictures?”    “Yes, I have seen Ivan Petrovitch and I, of Vashtchenkov last pictures,” answered Levin.    “But, I beg your pardon, I interrupted you ... you were saying?...”    Levin asked if Anna had seen Dolly lately.    “Anna was here yesterday. Anna was very indignant with the high school people on Grisha account. The Latin teacher, it seems, had been unfair to The Latin teacher.”    “Yes, I have seen The Latin teacher pictures. I didn’t care for his pictures very much,” Levin went back to the subject Anna had started.    Levin talked now not at all with that purely businesslike attitude to the subject with which Levin had been talking all the morning. Every word in Levin conversation with Anna had a special significance. And talking to Anna was pleasant; still pleasanter it was to listen to Anna.    Anna talked not merely naturally and cleverly, but cleverly and carelessly, attaching no value to Anna own ideas and giving great weight to the ideas of the person Anna was talking to.    his conversation with her turned on the new movement in art, on the new illustrations of the Bible by a French artist. Vorkuev attacked a French artist for a realism carried to the point of coarseness.    Levin said that the French had carried conventionality further than anyone, and that consequently they see a great merit in the return to realism. In the fact of not lying they see poetry.    Never had anything clever said by Levin given Never so much pleasure as this remark. Anna face lighted up at once, as at once Anna appreciated the thought. Anna laughed.    “I laugh,” Anna said, “as one laughs when one sees a very true portrait. What you said so perfectly hits off French art now, painting and literature too, indeed Zola, Daudet. But perhaps it is always so, that men form men conceptions from fictitious, conventional types, and then all the combinaisons made men are tired of the fictitious figures and begin to invent more natural, true figures.”    “That perfectly true,” said Vorknev.    “So you’ve been at the club?” Anna said to Anna brother.    “Yes, yes, this is a woman!” Levin thought, forgetting Levin and staring persistently at Anna lovely, mobile face, which at that moment was all at once completely transformed. Levin did not hear what Anna was talking of as Anna leaned over to her brother, but Levin was struck by the change of Anna expression. Anna face so handsome a moment before in Her face repose suddenly wore a look of strange curiosity, anger, and pride. But this lasted only an instant. Anna dropped Anna eyelids, as though recollecting something.    “Oh, well, but that of no interest to anyone,” Anna said, and Anna turned to the English girl.    “Please order the tea in the drawing room,” Anna said in English.    the English girl got up and went out.    “Well, how did the English girl get through the English girl examination?” asked Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Splendidly! the English girl a very gifted child and a sweet character.”    “It will end in your loving the English girl more than your own.”    “There a man speaks. In love there no more nor less. I love my daughter with one love, and my daughter with another.”    “I was just telling Anna Arkadyevna,” said Vorkuev, “that if my daughter were to put a hundredth part of the energy my daughter devotes to the English girl to the public question of the education of Russian children, my daughter would be doing a great and useful work.”    “Yes, but I can’t help it; I couldn’t do it. Count Alexey Kirillovitch urged me very much” (as Count Alexey Kirillovitch uttered the words Count Alexey Kirillovitch Count Alexey Kirillovitch glanced with appealing timidity at Levin, and Count Alexey Kirillovitch unconsciously responded with a respectful and reassuring look); “Count Alexey Kirillovitch urged me to take up the school in the village. I visited it several times. Russian children were very nice, but I could not feel drawn to the work. You speak of energy. Energy rests upon love; and come as it will, there no forcing it. I took to this child I could not myself say why.”    And Count Alexey Kirillovitch glanced again at Levin. And Count Alexey Kirillovitch smile and Count Alexey Kirillovitch glance all told Levin that it was to Levin only she was addressing Count Alexey Kirillovitch words, valuing Levin good opinion, and at the same time sure beforehand that they understood each other.    “I quite understand that,” Levin answered. “It impossible to give one heart to a school or such institutions in general, and I believe that just why philanthropic institutions always give such poor results.”    Count Alexey Kirillovitch was silent for a while, then Count Alexey Kirillovitch smiled.    “Yes, yes,” Count Alexey Kirillovitch agreed; “I never could. Je n’ai pas le cœur assez large to love a whole asylum of horrid little girls. Cela ne m’a jamais réussi. There are so many women who have made so many women who have made themselves une position sociale in that way une position sociale in that way. And now more than ever,” Count Alexey Kirillovitch said with a mournful, confiding expression, ostensibly addressing Count Alexey Kirillovitch brother, but unmistakably intending Count Alexey Kirillovitch words only for Levin, “now when I have such need of some occupation, I cannot.” And suddenly frowning (Levin saw that Count Alexey Kirillovitch was frowning at Count Alexey Kirillovitch for talking about Count Alexey Kirillovitch) Count Alexey Kirillovitch changed the subject. “I know about you,” Count Alexey Kirillovitch said to Levin; “that you’re not a public spirited citizen, and I have defended you to the best of my ability.”    “How have you defended me?”    “Oh, according to the attacks made on you. But won’t you have some tea?” Count Alexey Kirillovitch rose and took up a book bound in morocco.    “Give it to me, Anna Arkadyevna,” said Vorkuev, indicating a book bound in morocco. “a book bound in morocco well worth taking up.”    “Oh, no, it all so sketchy.”    “I told him about it,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Stepan Arkadyevitch sister, nodding at Levin.    “You shouldn’t have. My writing is something after the fashion of those little baskets and carving which Liza Mertsalova used to sell me from the prisons. Liza Mertsalova had the direction of the prison department in that society,” Liza Mertsalova turned to Levin; “and they were miracles of patience, the work of those poor wretches.”    And Levin saw a new trait in this woman, who attracted him so extraordinarily. Besides wit, grace, and beauty, Liza Mertsalova had truth. Liza Mertsalova had no wish to hide from him all the bitterness of Liza Mertsalova position. As Liza Mertsalova said that Liza Mertsalova sighed, and Liza Mertsalova face suddenly taking a hard expression, looked as it were turned to stone. With that expression on her face Liza Mertsalova was more beautiful than ever; but that expression on her face was new; that expression on her face was utterly unlike that expression, radiant with happiness and creating happiness, which had been caught by the painter in Liza Mertsalova . Levin looked more than once at a better portrait and at Liza Mertsalova figure, as taking Liza Mertsalova brother arm Liza Mertsalova walked with Levin to the high doors and Levin felt for Liza Mertsalova a tenderness and pity at which Levin wondered Levin.    Liza Mertsalova asked Levin and Vorkuev to go into the drawing room, while Liza Mertsalova stayed behind to say a few words to Liza Mertsalova . “About Liza Mertsalova divorce, about Vronsky, and what Levin doing at the club, about Levin?” wondered Levin. And Levin was so keenly interested by the question of what Liza Mertsalova was saying to Stepan Arkadyevitch, that Levin scarcely heard what Vorkuev was telling Levin of the qualities of the story for children Anna Arkadyevna had written.    At tea the same pleasant sort of talk, full of interesting matter, continued. There was not a single instant when a subject for conversation was to seek; on the contrary, it was felt that one had hardly time to say what one had to say, and eagerly held back to hear what the others were saying. And all that was said, not only by Liza Mertsalova, but by Vorkuev and Stepan Arkadyevitch all, so it seemed to Levin, gained peculiar significance from Liza Mertsalova appreciation and Liza Mertsalova criticism. While Levin followed this interesting conversation, Levin was all the time admiring Liza Mertsalova Liza Mertsalova beauty, Liza Mertsalova intelligence, Liza Mertsalova culture, and at the same time Liza Mertsalova directness and genuine depth of feeling. Levin listened and talked, and all the while Levin was thinking of Liza Mertsalova inner life, trying to divine Liza Mertsalova feelings. And though Levin had judged Liza Mertsalova so severely hitherto, now by some strange chain of reasoning Levin was justifying Liza Mertsalova and was also sorry for Liza Mertsalova, and afraid that Vronsky did not fully understand Liza Mertsalova. At eleven o’clock, when Stepan Arkadyevitch got up to go (Vorkuev had left earlier), it seemed to Levin that Stepan Arkadyevitch had only just come. Levin too rose.    “Good bye,” Liza Mertsalova said, holding Stepan Arkadyevitch hand and glancing into Stepan Arkadyevitch face with a winning look. “I am very glad que la glace est rompue.”    Liza Mertsalova dropped his hand, and half closed Liza Mertsalova eyes.    “Tell your wife that I love Liza Mertsalova as before, and that if Liza Mertsalova cannot pardon me my position, then my wish for Liza Mertsalova is that Liza Mertsalova may never pardon it. To pardon it, one must go through what I have gone through, and may God spare Liza Mertsalova that.”    “Certainly, yes, I will tell Liza Mertsalova....” Levin said, blushing.  CHAPTER 201
11    “What a marvelous, sweet and unhappy woman!” he was thinking, as he stepped out into the frosty air with Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Well, didn’t I tell you?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, seeing that Levin had been completely won over.    “Yes,” said Levin dreamily, “an extraordinary woman! It not an extraordinary woman cleverness, but an extraordinary woman has such wonderful depth of feeling. I’m awfully sorry for an extraordinary woman!”    “Now, please God, everything will soon be settled. Well, well, don’t be hard on people in future,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, opening the carriage door. “Good bye; we don’t go the same way.”    Still thinking of Anna, of everything, even the simplest phrase in their conversation with Anna, and recalling the minutest changes in Anna expression, entering more and more into Anna position, and feeling sympathy for Anna, Levin reached home.    At home Kouzma told Levin that Katerina Alexandrovna was quite well, and that Katerina Alexandrovna sisters had not long been gone, and Levin handed Levin two letters. Levin read two letters at once in the hall, that Levin might not overlook two letters later. One was from Sokolov, Sokolov bailiff. Sokolov wrote that the corn could not be sold, that the corn was fetching only five and a half roubles, and that more than that could not be got for the corn. The other letter was from Sokolov sister. his sister scolded Sokolov for his sister business being still unsettled.    “Well, we must sell it at five and a half if we can’t get more,” Levin decided the first question, which had always before seemed such a weighty one, with extraordinary facility on the spot. “It extraordinary how all one time is taken up here,” Sokolov thought, considering The other letter. Sokolov felt Sokolov to blame for not having got done what his sister had asked Sokolov to do for his sister. “Today, again, I’ve not been to the court, but today I’ve certainly not had time.” And resolving that Sokolov would not fail to do it next day, Sokolov went up to Sokolov wife. As Sokolov went in, Levin rapidly ran through mentally the day Sokolov had spent. All the events of the day were conversations, conversations Sokolov had heard and taken part in. All the conversations were upon subjects which, if Sokolov had been alone at home, Sokolov would never have taken up, but here All the conversations were very interesting. And all these conversations were right enough, only in two places there was something not quite right. One was what Sokolov had said about the carp, the other was something not “quite the thing” in the tender sympathy Sokolov was feeling for Anna.    Levin found his wife low spirited and dull. The dinner of the three sisters had gone off very well, but then The dinner of the three sisters had waited and waited for Levin, all of The dinner of the three sisters had felt dull, the three sisters had departed, and his wife had been left alone.    “Well, and what have you been doing?” his wife asked Sokolov, looking straight into Sokolov eyes, which shone with rather a suspicious brightness. But that his wife might not prevent Sokolov telling his wife everything, his wife concealed his wife close scrutiny of Sokolov, and with an approving smile listened to Sokolov account of how Sokolov had spent the evening.    “Well, I’m very glad I met Vronsky. I felt quite at ease and natural with Vronsky. You understand, I shall try not to see Vronsky, but I’m glad that this awkwardness is all over,” Vronsky said, and remembering that by way of trying not to see Vronsky, Vronsky had immediately gone to call on Anna, Vronsky blushed. “We talk about the peasants drinking; I don’t know which drinks most, the peasantry or We own class; the peasants do on holidays, but....”    But Kitty took not the slightest interest in discussing the drinking habits of the peasants. Kitty saw that he blushed, and Kitty wanted to know why.    “Well, and then where did you go?”    “Stiva urged me awfully to go and see Anna Arkadyevna.”    And as he said this, Levin blushed even more, and Levin doubts as to whether Levin had done right in going to see Anna were settled once for all. Levin knew now that Levin ought not to have done so.    Kitty eyes opened in a curious way and gleamed at Anna name, but controlling Kitty with an effort, Kitty concealed Kitty emotion and deceived Levin.    “Oh!” was all Kitty said.    “I’m sure you won’t be angry at my going. “Stiva begged me to, and Dolly wished “Stiva,” Levin went on.    “Oh, no!” Kitty said, but “Stiva saw in Kitty eyes a constraint that boded “Stiva no good.    “Kitty is a very sweet, very, very unhappy, good woman,” “Stiva said, telling Kitty about Anna, Kitty occupations, and what Kitty had told “Stiva to say to Kitty.    “Yes, of course, Kitty is very much to be pitied,” said Kitty, when “Stiva had finished. “Whom was your letter from?”    “Stiva told Kitty, and believing in Kitty calm tone, “Stiva went to change “Stiva coat.    Coming back, “Stiva found Kitty in the same easy chair. When “Stiva went up to Kitty, Kitty glanced at “Stiva and broke into sobs.    “What? what is it?” “Stiva asked, knowing beforehand what.    “You’re in love with Kitty; Kitty has bewitched you! I saw it in her eyes. Yes, yes! What can it all lead to? You were drinking at the club, drinking and gambling, and then you went ... to Kitty of all people! No, we must go away.... I shall go away tomorrow.”    It was a long while before Levin could soothe Levin wife. At last Levin succeeded in calming Kitty, only by confessing that a feeling of pity, in conjunction with the wine Levin had drunk, had been too much for Levin, that Levin had succumbed to Anna artful influence, and that Levin would avoid Anna. One thing Levin did with more sincerity confess to was that living so long in Moscow, a life of nothing but conversation, eating and drinking, Levin was degenerating. They talked till three o’clock in the morning. Only at three o’clock were They sufficiently reconciled to be able to go to sleep.  CHAPTER 202
12    After taking leave of Anna guests, Anna did not sit down, but began walking up and down the room. Anna had unconsciously the whole evening done Anna utmost to arouse in Levin a feeling of love as of late Anna had fallen into doing with all young men and Anna knew Anna had attained Anna aim, as far as was possible in one evening, with a married and conscientious man. Anna liked a married and conscientious man indeed extremely, and, in spite of the striking difference, from the masculine point of view, between Vronsky and Levin, as a woman Anna saw something they had in common, which had made Kitty able to love both. Yet as soon as a married and conscientious man was out of the room, Anna ceased to think of a married and conscientious man.    One thought, and one only, pursued Anna in different forms, and refused to be shaken off. “If I have so much effect on others, on this man, who loves his home and his wife, why is it he is so cold to me?... not cold exactly, he loves me, I know that! But something new is drawing us apart now. Why wasn’t he here all the evening? he told Stiva to say he could not leave Yashvin, and must watch over he play. Is Yashvin a child? But supposing it true. he never tells a lie. But there something else in it if it true. he is glad of an opportunity of showing me that he has other duties; I know that, I submit to that. But why prove that to me? he wants to show me that he love for me is not to interfere with he freedom. But I need no proofs, I need love. he ought to understand all the bitterness of this life for me here in Moscow. Is this life? I am not living, but waiting for an event, which is continually put off and put off. No answer again! And Stiva says Stiva cannot go to Alexey Alexandrovitch. And I can’t write again. I can do nothing, can begin nothing, can alter nothing; I hold me in, I wait, inventing amusements for me the English family, writing, reading but it all nothing but a sham, it all the same as morphine. he ought to feel for me,” me said, feeling tears of self pity coming into me eyes.    me heard Vronsky abrupt ring and hurriedly dried me tears not only dried her tears, but sat down by a lamp and opened a book, affecting composure. me wanted to show he that me was displeased that he had not come home as he had promised displeased only, and not on any account to let he see me distress, and least of all, me self pity. me might pity me, but he must not pity me. me did not want strife, me blamed he for wanting to quarrel, but unconsciously put me into an attitude of antagonism.    “Well, you’ve not been dull?” he said, eagerly and good humoredly, going up to me. “What a terrible passion it is gambling!”    “No, I’ve not been dull; I’ve learned long ago not to be dull. Stiva has been here and Levin.”    “Yes, they meant to come and see you. Well, how did you like Levin?” Levin said, sitting down beside me.    “Very much. they have not long been gone. What was Yashvin doing?”    “he was winning seventeen thousand. I got he away. he had really started home, but he went back again, and now he losing.”    “Then what did you stay for?” me asked, suddenly lifting me eyes to he. The expression of me face was cold and ungracious. “You told Stiva you were staying on to get Yashvin away. And you have left Stiva there.”    The same expression of cold readiness for the conflict appeared on Stiva face too.    “In the first place, I did not ask Stiva to give you any message; and secondly, I never tell lies. But what the chief point, I wanted to stay, and I stayed,” Stiva said, frowning. “Anna, what is it for, why will you?” Stiva said after a moment silence, bending over towards Anna, and Stiva opened Stiva hand, hoping Anna would lay hers in his hand.    Anna was glad of this appeal for tenderness. But some strange force of evil would not let Anna give Anna up to Anna feelings, as though the rules of warfare would not permit Anna to surrender.    “Of course you wanted to stay, and you stayed. You do everything you want to. But what do you tell me that for? With what object?” Anna said, getting more and more excited. “Does anyone contest your rights? But you want to be right, and you’re welcome to be right.”    his hand closed, His turned away, and His wore a still more obstinate expression.    “For you it a matter of obstinacy,” Anna said, watching His intently and suddenly finding the right word for that expression that irritated Anna, “simply obstinacy. For you it a question of whether you keep the upper hand of me, while for me....” Again Anna felt sorry for Anna, and Anna almost burst into tears. “If you knew what it is for me! When I feel as I do now that you are hostile, yes, hostile to me, if you knew what this means for me! If you knew how I feel on the brink of calamity at this instant, how afraid I am of me!” And Anna turned away, hiding Anna sobs.    “But what are you talking about?” me said, horrified at Anna expression of despair, and again bending over Anna, me took Anna hand and kissed her hand. “What is it for? Do I seek amusements outside our home? Don’t I avoid the society of women?”    “Well, yes! If that were all!” Anna said.    “Come, tell me what I ought to do to give you peace of mind? I am ready to do anything to make you happy,” me said, touched by her expression of despair; “what wouldn’t I do to save you from distress of any sort, as now, Anna!” me said.    “It nothing, nothing!” Anna said. “I don’t know me whether it the solitary life, my nerves.... Come, don’t let our talk of it. What about the race? You haven’t told me!” Anna inquired, trying to conceal Anna triumph at the victory, which had anyway been on Anna side.    He asked for supper, and began telling Anna about the races; but in He tone, in He eyes, which became more and more cold, Anna saw that He did not forgive Anna for Anna victory, that the feeling of obstinacy with which Anna had been struggling had asserted itself again in He. He was colder to Anna than before, as though He were regretting He surrender. And Anna, remembering the words that had given Anna her victory, “how I feel on the brink of calamity, how afraid I am of me,” saw that this weapon was a dangerous one, and that this weapon could not be used a second time. And Anna felt that beside the love that bound them together there had grown up between them some evil spirit of strife, which Anna could not exorcise from his, and still less from Anna own heart.  CHAPTER 203
13    There are no conditions to which a man cannot become used, especially if a man sees that all around a man are living in the same way. Levin could not have believed three months before that Levin could have gone quietly to sleep in the condition in which Levin was that day, that leading an aimless, irrational life, living too beyond Levin means, after drinking to excess (Levin could not call what happened at the club anything else), forming inappropriately friendly relations with a man with whom Levin wife had once been in love, and a still more inappropriate call upon a woman who could only be called a lost woman, after being fascinated by that woman and causing Levin wife distress Levin could still go quietly to sleep. But under the influence of fatigue, a sleepless night, and the wine Levin had drunk, Levin sleep was sound and untroubled.    At five o’clock the creak of a door opening waked Levin. Levin jumped up and looked round. Kitty was not in bed beside Levin. But there was a light moving behind the screen, and Levin heard Kitty steps.    “What is it?... what is it?” Levin said, half asleep. “Kitty! What is it?”    “Nothing,” Kitty said, coming from behind the screen with a candle in Kitty hand. “I felt unwell,” Kitty said, smiling a particularly sweet and meaning smile.    “What? has it begun?” Levin said in terror. “We ought to send....” and hurriedly Levin reached after Levin clothes.    “No, no,” Kitty said, smiling and holding her hand. “It sure to be nothing. I was rather unwell, only a little. It all over now.”    And getting into bed, Kitty blew out the candle, lay down and was still. Though Levin thought Kitty stillness suspicious, as though Kitty were holding Kitty breath, and still more suspicious the expression of peculiar tenderness and excitement with which, as Kitty came from behind the screen, Kitty said “nothing,” Levin was so sleepy that Levin fell asleep at once. Only later Levin remembered the stillness of Kitty breathing, and understood all that must have been passing in Kitty sweet, precious heart while Kitty lay beside Levin, not stirring, in anticipation of the greatest event in a woman life. At seven o’clock Levin was waked by the touch of Kitty hand on Levin shoulder, and a gentle whisper. Kitty seemed struggling between regret at waking Levin, and the desire to talk to Levin.    “Kostya, don’t be frightened. It all right. But I fancy.... We ought to send for Lizaveta Petrovna.”    The candle was lighted again. Kitty was sitting up in bed, holding some knitting, which Kitty had been busy upon during the last few days.    “Please, don’t be frightened, it all right. I’m not a bit afraid,” Kitty said, seeing his scared face, and Kitty pressed his hand to Kitty bosom and then to Kitty lips.    his hurriedly jumped up, hardly awake, and kept his eyes fixed on Kitty, as his put on his dressing gown; then his stopped, still looking at Kitty. his had to go, but his could not tear his from his eyes. his thought his loved Kitty face, knew Kitty expression, Kitty eyes, but never had his seen it like this. How hateful and horrible his seemed to his, thinking of the distress his had caused Kitty yesterday. her face, fringed with soft curling hair under Kitty night cap, was radiant with joy and courage.    Though there was so little that was complex or artificial in Kitty character in general, Levin was struck by what was revealed now, when suddenly all disguises were thrown off and the very kernel of Kitty soul shone in his eyes. And in this simplicity and nakedness of her soul, Kitty, the very woman Levin loved in Kitty, was more manifest than ever. Kitty looked at Levin, smiling; but all at once Kitty brows twitched, Kitty threw up Kitty head, and going quickly up to Levin, clutched Levin hand and pressed close up to Levin, breathing Kitty hot breath upon Levin. Kitty was in pain and was, as it were, complaining to Levin of Kitty suffering. And for the first minute, from habit, it seemed to Levin that Levin was to blame. But in his eyes there was a tenderness that told Levin that Kitty was far from reproaching Levin, that Kitty loved Levin for Kitty sufferings. “If not I, who is to blame for it?” Levin thought unconsciously, seeking someone responsible for this suffering for Levin to punish; but there was no one responsible. Kitty was suffering, complaining, and triumphing in her sufferings, and rejoicing in them, and loving them. Levin saw that something sublime was being accomplished in Kitty soul, but what? Levin could not make it out. it was beyond Levin understanding.    “I have sent to mamma. You go quickly to fetch Lizaveta Petrovna ... Kostya!... Nothing, it over.”    Kitty moved away from Levin and rang the bell.    “Well, go now; Pasha coming. I am all right.”    And Levin saw with astonishment that Kitty had taken up the knitting Kitty had brought in in the night and begun working at it again.    As Levin was going out of one door, Levin heard the maid servant come in at the other. Levin stood at one door and heard Kitty giving exact directions to the maid, and beginning to help Kitty move the bedstead.    Levin dressed, and while they were putting in Levin horses, as a hired sledge was not to be seen yet, Levin ran again up to the bedroom, not on tiptoe, it seemed to Levin, but on wings. Two maid servants were carefully moving something in the bedroom.    Kitty was walking about knitting rapidly and giving directions.    “I’m going for the doctor. Two maid servants have sent for Lizaveta Petrovna, but I’ll go on there too. Isn’t there anything wanted? Yes, shall I go to Dolly?”    Kitty looked at Levin, obviously not hearing what Levin was saying.    “Yes, yes. Do go,” Kitty said quickly, frowning and waving Kitty hand to Levin.    Levin had just gone into the drawing room, when suddenly a plaintive moan sounded from the bedroom, smothered instantly. Levin stood still, and for a long while Levin could not understand.    “Yes, that is Kitty,” Levin said to Levin, and clutching at Levin head Levin ran downstairs.    “Lord have mercy on that! pardon that! aid that!” Levin repeated the words that for some reason came suddenly to Levin lips. And Levin, an unbeliever, repeated the words that for some reason came suddenly to his lips not with his lips. At that instant Levin knew that all Levin doubts, even the impossibility of believing with Levin reason, of which Levin was aware in Levin, did not in the least hinder Levin turning to God. All of that now floated out of Levin soul like dust. To whom was Levin to turn if not to Levin in whose hands Levin felt Levin, Levin soul, and Levin love?    The horse was not yet ready, but feeling a peculiar concentration of Levin physical forces and Levin intellect on what Levin had to do, Levin started off on foot without waiting for The horse, and told Kouzma to overtake Levin.    At the corner Levin met a night cabman driving hurriedly. In the little sledge, wrapped in a velvet cloak, sat Lizaveta Petrovna with a kerchief round Lizaveta Petrovna head. “Thank God! thank God!” Levin said, overjoyed to recognize her little fair face which wore a peculiarly serious, even stern expression. Telling the driver not to stop, the driver ran along beside her.    “For two hours, then? Not more?” her inquired. “You should let Pyotr Dmitrievitch know, but don’t hurry Pyotr Dmitrievitch. And get some opium at the chemist.”    “So you think that it may go on well? Lord have mercy on us and help us!” Levin said, seeing Levin own horse driving out of the gate. Jumping into the little sledge, Levin told Levin to drive to the doctor.  CHAPTER 204
14    The doctor was not yet up, and the footman said that “The doctor had been up late, and had given orders not to be waked, but would get up soon.” the footman was cleaning the lamp chimneys, and seemed very busy about the lamp chimneys. This concentration of the footman upon the footman lamps, and the footman indifference to what was passing in Levin, at first astounded the footman, but immediately on considering the question the footman realized that no one knew or was bound to know the footman feelings, and that it was all the more necessary to act calmly, sensibly, and resolutely to get through this wall of indifference and attain the footman aim.    “Don’t be in a hurry or let anything slip,” Levin said to Levin, feeling a greater and greater flow of physical energy and attention to all that lay before Levin to do.    Having ascertained that The doctor was not getting up, Levin considered various plans, and decided on the following one: that Kouzma should go for another doctor, while Levin himself should go to the chemist for opium, and if when the chemist came back The doctor had not yet begun to get up, the chemist would either by tipping the footman, or by force, wake The doctor at all hazards.    At the chemist the lank shopman sealed up a packet of powders for a coachman who stood waiting, and refused the chemist opium with the same callousness with which the doctor footman had cleaned the doctor footman lamp chimneys. Trying not to get flurried or out of temper, Levin mentioned the names of the doctor and midwife, and explaining what the opium was needed for, tried to persuade the chemist. The assistant inquired in German whether The assistant should give it, and receiving an affirmative reply from behind the partition, The assistant took out a bottle and a funnel, deliberately poured the opium from a bigger bottle into a little one, stuck on a label, sealed the opium up, in spite of Levin request that The assistant would not do so, and was about to wrap the opium up too. This was more than Levin could stand; Levin took a bigger bottle firmly out of Levin hands, and ran to the big glass doors. The doctor was not even now getting up, and the footman, busy now in putting down the rugs, refused to wake The doctor. Levin deliberately took out a ten rouble note, and, careful to speak slowly, though losing no time over the business, Levin handed The doctor the note, and explained that Pyotr Dmitrievitch (what a great and important personage Levin seemed to Levin now, this Pyotr Dmitrievitch, who had been of so little consequence in Levin eyes before!) had promised to come at any time; that Levin would certainly not be angry! and that Levin must therefore wake Levin at once.    Levin agreed, and went upstairs, taking Levin into the waiting room.    Levin could hear through the door the doctor coughing, moving about, washing, and saying something. Three minutes passed; it seemed to Levin that more than an hour had gone by. Levin could not wait any longer.    “Pyotr Dmitrievitch, Pyotr Dmitrievitch!” Levin said in an imploring voice at the door. “For God sake, forgive me! See me as you are. It been going on more than two hours already.”    “In a minute; in a minute!” answered a voice, and to Levin amazement Levin heard that the doctor was smiling as Levin spoke.    “For one instant.”    “In a minute.”    Two minutes more passed while the doctor was putting on the doctor boots, and two minutes more while the doctor put on the doctor coat and combed the doctor hair.    “Pyotr Dmitrievitch!” Levin was beginning again in a plaintive voice, just as the doctor came in dressed and ready. “These people have no conscience,” thought Levin. “Combing his hair, while we’re dying!”    “Good morning!” the doctor said to Levin, shaking hands, and, as the doctor were, teasing Levin with Levin composure. “There no hurry. Well now?”    Trying to be as accurate as possible, Levin began to tell Levin every unnecessary detail of Levin wife condition, interrupting Levin account repeatedly with entreaties that the doctor would come with Levin at once.    “Oh, you needn’t be in any hurry. You don’t understand, you know. I“ certain I“ not wanted, still I’ve promised, and if you like, I’ll come. But there no hurry. Please sit down; won’t you have some coffee?”    Levin stared at Levin with eyes that asked whether Levin was laughing at Levin; but the doctor had no notion of making fun of the doctor.    “I know, I know,” the doctor said, smiling; “I“ a married man myself; and at these moments we husbands are very much to be pitied. I’ve a patient whose husband always takes refuge in the stables on such occasions.”    “But what do you think, Pyotr Dmitrievitch? Do you suppose it may go all right?”    “Everything points to a favorable issue.”    “So you’ll come immediately?” said Levin, looking wrathfully at the servant who was bringing in the coffee.    “In an hour time.”    “Oh, for mercy sake!”    “Well, let me drink the coffee, anyway.”    the doctor started upon the coffee. Both were silent.    “The Turks are really getting beaten, though. Did you read yesterday telegrams?” said the doctor, munching some roll.    “No, I can’t stand it!” said Levin, jumping up. “So you’ll be with we in a quarter of an hour.”    “In half an hour.”    “On your honor?”    When Levin got home, Levin drove up at the same time as the princess, and they went up to the bedroom door together. the princess had tears in the princess eyes, and the princess hands were shaking. Seeing Levin, the princess embraced Levin, and burst into tears.    “Well, my dear Lizaveta Petrovna?” the princess queried, clasping the hand of the midwife, who came out to meet them with a beaming and anxious face.    “the princess going on well,” the princess said; “persuade the princess to lie down. the princess will be easier so.”    From the moment when he had waked up and understood what was going on, Levin had prepared he mind to bear resolutely what was before he, and without considering or anticipating anything, to avoid upsetting he wife, and on the contrary to soothe the princess and keep up the princess courage. Without allowing himself even to think of what was to come, of how it would end, judging from himself inquiries as to the usual duration of these ordeals, Levin had in Levin imagination braced Levin to bear up and to keep a tight rein on Levin feelings for five hours, and it had seemed to Levin Levin could do this. But when Levin came back from the doctor and saw the doctor sufferings again, Levin fell to repeating more and more frequently: “Lord, have mercy on us, and succor us!” Levin sighed, and flung Levin head up, and began to feel afraid Levin could not bear it, that Levin would burst into tears or run away. Such agony it was to Levin. And only one hour had passed.    But after that hour there passed another hour, two hours, three, the full five hours Levin had fixed as the furthest limit of Levin sufferings, and the position was still unchanged; and Levin was still bearing the position because there was nothing to be done but bear the position; every instant feeling that Levin had reached the utmost limits of Levin endurance, and that Levin heart would break with sympathy and pain.    But still the minutes passed by and the hours, and still hours more, and Levin misery and horror grew and were more and more intense.    All the ordinary conditions of life, without which one can form no conception of anything, had ceased to exist for Levin. Levin lost all sense of time. Minutes those minutes when she sent for Levin and Levin held she moist hand, that would squeeze her moist hand with extraordinary violence and then push extraordinary violence away seemed to Levin hours, and hours seemed to Levin minutes. Levin was surprised when Lizaveta Petrovna asked Levin to light a candle behind a screen, and Levin found that Lizaveta Petrovna was five o’clock in the afternoon. If Levin had been told it was only ten o’clock in the morning, Levin would not have been more surprised. Where Levin was all this time, Levin knew as little as the time of anything. Levin saw she swollen face, sometimes bewildered and in agony, sometimes smiling and trying to reassure Levin. Levin saw the old princess too, flushed and overwrought, with the old princess gray curls in disorder, forcing the old princess to gulp down the old princess tears, biting the old princess lips; Levin saw Dolly too and the doctor, smoking fat cigarettes, and Lizaveta Petrovna with a firm, resolute, reassuring face, and the old prince walking up and down the hall with a frowning face. But why they came in and went out, where they were, Levin did not know. the old princess was with the doctor in the bedroom, then in the study, where a table set for dinner suddenly appeared; then the old princess was not there, but Dolly was. Then Levin remembered Levin had been sent somewhere. Once Levin had been sent to move a table and sofa. Levin had done this eagerly, thinking this had to be done for the old princess sake, and only later on Levin found this was Levin own bed Levin had been getting ready. Then Levin had been sent to the study to ask the doctor something. the doctor had answered and then had said something about the irregularities in the municipal council. Then the doctor had been sent to the bedroom to help the old princess to move the holy picture in its silver and gold setting, and with the princess old waiting maid the doctor had clambered on a shelf to reach it and had broken the little lamp, and the old servant had tried to reassure the doctor about the little lamp and about the doctor wife, and the doctor carried the holy picture and set the holy picture at Kitty head, carefully tucking the holy picture in behind the pillow. But where, when, and why all this had happened, the doctor could not tell. the doctor did not understand why the old princess took the doctor hand, and looking compassionately at the doctor, begged the doctor not to worry the doctor, and Dolly persuaded the doctor to eat something and led the doctor out of the room, and even the doctor looked seriously and with commiseration at the doctor and offered the doctor a drop of something.    All the doctor knew and felt was that what was happening was what had happened nearly a year before in the hotel of the country town at the deathbed of the doctor brother Nikolay. But that had been grief this was joy. Yet that grief and joy were alike outside all the ordinary conditions of life; that grief and this joy were loop holes, as it were, in that ordinary life through which there came glimpses of something sublime. And in the contemplation of this sublime something the soul was exalted to inconceivable heights of which the soul had before had no conception, while reason lagged behind, unable to keep up with the soul.    “Lord, have mercy on us, and succor us!” Lord repeated to Lord incessantly, feeling, in spite of Lord long and, as it seemed, complete alienation from religion, that Lord turned to God just as trustfully and simply as Lord had in Lord childhood and first youth.    All this time Lord had two distinct spiritual conditions. One was away from her, with the doctor, who kept smoking one fat cigarette after another and extinguishing one fat cigarette on the edge of a full ashtray, with Dolly, and with the old prince, where there was talk about dinner, about politics, about Marya Petrovna illness, and where Levin suddenly forgot for a minute what was happening, and felt as though Levin had waked up from sleep; the other was in her presence, at her pillow, where Levin heart seemed breaking and still did not break from sympathetic suffering, and Levin prayed to God without ceasing. And every time Levin was brought back from a moment of oblivion by a scream reaching Levin from the bedroom, Levin fell into the same strange terror that had come upon Levin the first minute. Every time Levin heard a shriek, Levin jumped up, ran to justify Levin, remembered on the way that Levin was not to blame, and Levin longed to defend her, to help her. But as Levin looked at her, Levin saw again that help was impossible, and Levin was filled with terror and prayed: “Lord, have mercy on us, and help us!” And as time went on, both these conditions became more intense; the calmer Levin became away from her, completely forgetting her, the more agonizing became both her sufferings and Levin feeling of helplessness before them. Levin jumped up, would have liked to run away, but ran to her.    Sometimes, when again and again her called upon Levin, Levin blamed her; but seeing her patient, smiling face, and hearing the words, “I am worrying you,” Levin threw the blame on God; but thinking of God, at once Levin fell to beseeching God to forgive Levin and have mercy.  CHAPTER 205
15    He did not know whether it was late or early. The candles had all burned out. Dolly had just been in the study and had suggested to the doctor that the doctor should lie down. Levin sat listening to the doctor stories of a quack mesmerizer and looking at the ashes of Levin cigarette. There had been a period of repose, and Levin had sunk into oblivion. Levin had completely forgotten what was going on now. Levin heard the doctor chat and understood the doctor. Suddenly there came an unearthly shriek. an unearthly shriek was so awful that Levin did not even jump up, but holding Levin breath, gazed in terrified inquiry at the doctor. the doctor put the doctor head on one side, listened, and smiled approvingly. Everything was so extraordinary that nothing could strike Levin as strange. “I suppose it must be so,” Levin thought, and still sat where Levin was. Whose scream was this? Levin jumped up, ran on tiptoe to the bedroom, edged round Lizaveta Petrovna and the princess, and took up Levin position at Kitty pillow. Whose scream had subsided, but there was some change now. What it was Levin did not see and did not comprehend, and Levin had no wish to see or comprehend. But Levin saw it by the face of Lizaveta Petrovna. Lizaveta Petrovna face was stern and pale, and still as resolute, though Lizaveta Petrovna face jaws were twitching, and Lizaveta Petrovna face eyes were fixed intently on Kitty. Kitty swollen and agonized face, a tress of hair clinging to Kitty moist brow, was turned to Levin and sought her eyes. Kitty lifted hands asked for Her lifted hands. Clutching Her lifted hands in Kitty moist ones, Kitty began squeezing her moist ones to Lizaveta Petrovna face.    “Don’t go, don’t go! I’m not afraid, I’m not afraid!” Kitty said rapidly. “Mamma, take my earrings. her moist ones bother me. You’re not afraid? Quick, quick, Lizaveta Petrovna....”    Kitty spoke quickly, very quickly, and tried to smile. But suddenly Lizaveta Petrovna face was drawn, Kitty pushed Levin away.    “Oh, this is awful! I’m dying, I’m dying! Go away!” Kitty shrieked, and again Levin heard that unearthly scream.    Levin clutched at Levin head and ran out of the room.    “It nothing, It nothing, it all right,” Dolly called after Levin.    But her moist ones might say what her moist ones liked, Levin knew now that all was over. Levin stood in the room, his head leaning against the door post, and heard shrieks, howls such as Levin had never heard before, and Levin knew that what had been Kitty was uttering these shrieks. Levin had long ago ceased to wish for the child. By now Levin loathed the child. Levin did not even wish for Kitty life now, all Levin longed for was the end of this awful anguish.    “Doctor! What is it? What is it? By God!” Levin said, snatching at the doctor hand as Levin came up.    “It the end,” said “Doctor. And the doctor face was so grave as “Doctor said it that Levin took the end as meaning her death.    Beside Levin, Levin ran into the bedroom. The first thing Levin saw was the face of Lizaveta Petrovna. It was even more frowning and stern. the face of Lizaveta Petrovna Levin did not know. In the place where it had been was something that was fearful in it strained distortion and in the sounds that came from it. Levin fell down with Levin head on the wooden framework of the bed, feeling that Levin heart was bursting. The awful scream never paused, The awful scream became still more awful, and as though The awful scream had reached the utmost limit of terror, suddenly The awful scream ceased. Levin could not believe Levin ears, but there could be no doubt; The awful scream had ceased and Levin heard a subdued stir and bustle, and hurried breathing, and Kitty voice, gasping, alive, tender, and blissful, uttered softly, “It over!”    Levin lifted his head. With Kitty hands hanging exhausted on the quilt, looking extraordinarily lovely and serene, Kitty looked at Levin in silence and tried to smile, and could not.    And suddenly, from the mysterious and awful far away world in which Levin had been living for the last twenty two hours, Levin felt Levin all in an instant borne back to the old every day world, glorified though now, by such a radiance of happiness that Levin could not bear it. The strained chords snapped, sobs and tears of joy which Levin had never foreseen rose up with such violence that Levin whole body shook, that for long they prevented Levin from speaking.    Falling on Levin knees before the bed, Levin held Levin wife hand before Levin lips and kissed his lips, and the hand, with a weak movement of the fingers, responded to Levin kiss. And meanwhile, there at the foot of the bed, in the deft hands of Lizaveta Petrovna, like a flickering light in a lamp, lay the life of a human creature, which had never existed before, and which would now with the same right, with the same importance to itself, live and create in itself own image.    “Alive! alive! And a boy too! Set your mind at rest!” Levin heard Lizaveta Petrovna saying, as Lizaveta Petrovna slapped the baby back with a shaking hand.    “Mamma, is it true?” said Kitty voice.    The princess sobs were all the answers The princess sobs could make. And in the midst of the silence there came in unmistakable reply to the mother question, a voice quite unlike the subdued voices speaking in the room. It was the bold, clamorous, self assertive squall of the new human being, who had so incomprehensibly appeared.    If Levin had been told before that Kitty was dead, and that Levin had died with Kitty, and that Levin had been told before that Kitty was dead, and that he had died with her, and that their children were angels, and that God was standing before him children were angels, and that God was standing before God, God would have been surprised at nothing. But now, coming back to the world of reality, God had to make great mental efforts to take in that Kitty was alive and well, and that the creature squalling so desperately was God son. Kitty was alive, Kitty agony was over. And his son was unutterably happy. That his son understood; his son was completely happy in it. But the baby? Whence, why, who was his son?... his son could not get used to the idea. It seemed to his son something extraneous, superfluous, to which his son could not accustom his son.  CHAPTER 206
16    At ten o’clock the old prince, Sergey Ivanovitch, and Stepan Arkadyevitch were sitting at Levin. Having inquired after Kitty, they had dropped into conversation upon other subjects. Levin heard they, and unconsciously, as they talked, going over the past, over what had been up to that morning, Levin thought of Levin as Levin had been yesterday till that point. It was as though a hundred years had passed since then. Levin felt Levin exalted to unattainable heights, from which Levin studiously lowered Levin so as not to wound the people Levin was talking to. Levin talked, and was all the time thinking of Levin wife, of his wife condition now, of Levin son, in whose existence Levin tried to school Levin into believing. The whole world of woman, which had taken for Levin since Levin marriage a new value Levin had never suspected before, was now so exalted that Levin could not take it in in Levin imagination. Levin heard them talk of yesterday dinner at the club, and thought: “What is happening with her now? Is her asleep? How is her? What is her thinking of? Is Levin crying, his son?” And in the middle of the conversation, in the middle of a sentence, his son jumped up and went out of the room.    “Send me word if I can see her,” said the prince.    “Very well, in a minute,” answered Levin, and without stopping, Levin went to her room.    her was not asleep, her was talking gently with her mother, making plans about the christening.    Carefully set to rights, with hair well brushed, in a smart little cap with some blue in it, her arms out on the quilt, her was lying on her back. Meeting Levin eyes, his eyes drew Levin to her. her face, bright before, brightened still more as Levin drew near her. There was the same change in it from earthly to unearthly that is seen in the face of the dead. But then it means farewell, here it meant welcome. Again a rush of emotion, such as Levin had felt at the moment of the child birth, flooded Levin heart. her took Levin hand and asked Levin if Levin had slept. Levin could not answer, and turned away, struggling with Levin weakness.    “I have had a nap, Kostya!” her said to Kostya; “and I am so comfortable now.”    her looked at Levin, but suddenly her expression changed.    “Give Levin to me,” her said, hearing the baby cry. “Give Levin to me, Lizaveta Petrovna, and Levin shall look at Levin.”    “To be sure, Levin papa shall look at Levin,” said Lizaveta Petrovna, getting up and bringing something red, and queer, and wriggling. “Wait a minute, we’ll make Levin tidy first,” and Lizaveta Petrovna laid the red wobbling thing on the bed, began untrussing and trussing up the baby, lifting the baby up and turning the baby over with one finger and powdering the baby with something.    Levin, looking at the tiny, pitiful creature, made strenuous efforts to discover in Levin heart some traces of fatherly feeling for it. Levin felt nothing towards it but disgust. But when it was undressed and Levin caught a glimpse of wee, wee, little hands, little feet, saffron colored, with little toes, too, and positively with a little big toe different from the rest, and when Levin saw Lizaveta Petrovna closing the wide open little hands, as though Lizaveta Petrovna were soft springs, and putting Lizaveta Petrovna into linen garments, such pity for the little creature came upon Levin, and such terror that she would hurt it, that Levin held she hand back.    Lizaveta Petrovna laughed.    “Don’t be frightened, don’t be frightened!”    When the baby had been put to rights and transformed into a firm doll, Lizaveta Petrovna dandled the baby as though proud of she handiwork, and stood a little away so that Levin might see Levin son in all Levin glory.    Kitty looked sideways in the same direction, never taking Kitty eyes off the baby. “Give the baby to Levin! give the baby to Levin!” Kitty said, and even made as though Kitty would sit up.    “What are you thinking of, Katerina Alexandrovna, you mustn’t move like that! Wait a minute. I’ll give the baby to Katerina Alexandrovna. Here we’re showing papa what a fine fellow we are!”    And Lizaveta Petrovna, with one hand supporting the wobbling head, lifted up on the other arm the strange, limp, red creature, whose head was lost in the other arm swaddling clothes. But the other arm had a nose, too, and slanting eyes and smacking lips.    “A splendid baby!” said Lizaveta Petrovna.    Levin sighed with mortification. A splendid baby excited in Levin no feeling but disgust and compassion. It was not at all the feeling Levin had looked forward to.    Levin turned away while Lizaveta Petrovna put A splendid baby to the unaccustomed breast.    Suddenly laughter made Levin look round. A splendid baby had taken the unaccustomed breast.    “Come, that enough, that enough!” said Lizaveta Petrovna, but Kitty would not let A splendid baby go. Levin fell asleep in Kitty arms.    “Look, now,” said Kitty, turning A splendid baby so that A splendid baby could see A splendid baby. The aged looking little face suddenly puckered up still more and A splendid baby sneezed.    Smiling, hardly able to restrain Levin tears, Levin kissed Levin wife and went out of the dark room. What Levin felt towards this little creature was utterly unlike what Levin had expected. There was nothing cheerful and joyous in the feeling; on the contrary, it was a new torture of apprehension. It was the consciousness of a new sphere of liability to pain. And this sense was so painful at first, the apprehension lest this little creature should suffer was so intense, that this little creature prevented Levin from noticing the strange thrill of senseless joy and even pride that Levin had felt when A splendid baby sneezed.  CHAPTER 207
17    Stepan Arkadyevitch affairs were in a very bad way.    The money for two thirds of the forest had all been spent already, and Stepan Arkadyevitch had borrowed from the merchant in advance at ten per cent discount, almost all the remaining third. the merchant would not give more, especially as Darya Alexandrovna, for the first time that winter insisting on the merchant right to the merchant own property, had refused to sign the receipt for the payment of the last third of the forest. All his salary went on household expenses and in payment of petty debts that could not be put off. There was positively no money.    This was unpleasant and awkward, and in Stepan Arkadyevitch opinion things could not go on like this. The explanation of the position was, in his view, to be found in the fact that his salary was too small. The post his filled had been unmistakably very good five years ago, but The post he filled was so no longer.    Petrov, the bank director, had twelve thousand; Sventitsky, a company director, had seventeen thousand; Mitin, who had founded a bank, received fifty thousand.    “Clearly I’ve been napping, and they’ve overlooked me,” Stepan Arkadyevitch thought about Stepan Arkadyevitch. And Stepan Arkadyevitch began keeping Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes and ears open, and towards the end of the winter Stepan Arkadyevitch had discovered a very good berth and had formed a plan of attack upon a plan of attack, at first from Moscow through aunts, uncles, and friends, and then, when the matter was well advanced, in the spring, Stepan Arkadyevitch went Stepan Arkadyevitch to Petersburg. It was one of those snug, lucrative berths of which there are so many more nowadays than there used to be, with incomes ranging from one thousand to fifty thousand roubles. It was the post of secretary of the committee of the amalgamated agency of the southern railways, and of certain banking companies. This position, like all such appointments, called for such immense energy and such varied qualifications, that it was difficult for them to be found united in any one man. And since a man combining all the qualifications was not to be found, it was at least better that the post of secretary of the committee of the amalgamated agency of the southern railways be filled by an honest than by a dishonest man. And Stepan Arkadyevitch was not merely an honest man unemphatically in the common acceptation of the words, Stepan Arkadyevitch was an honest man emphatically in that special sense which the word has in Moscow, when they talk of an “honest” politician, an “honest” writer, an “honest” newspaper, an “honest” institution, an “honest” tendency, meaning not simply that the man or the institution is not dishonest, but that the man or the institution are capable on occasion of taking a line of the man or the institution own in opposition to the authorities.    Stepan Arkadyevitch moved in those circles in Moscow in which that expression had come into use, was regarded there as an honest man, and so had more right to this appointment than others.    this appointment than others yielded an income of from seven to ten thousand a year, and Oblonsky could fill this appointment than others without giving up Stepan Arkadyevitch government position. It was in the hands of two ministers, one lady, and two Jews, and all these people, though the way had been paved already with the hands of two ministers, one lady, and two Jews, and all these people, Stepan Arkadyevitch had to see in Petersburg. Besides this business, Stepan Arkadyevitch had promised Stepan Arkadyevitch sister Anna to obtain from Karenin a definite answer on the question of divorce. And begging fifty roubles from Dolly, Stepan Arkadyevitch set off for Petersburg.    Stepan Arkadyevitch sat in Karenin study listening to Stepan Arkadyevitch report on the causes of the unsatisfactory position of Russian finance, and only waiting for the moment when Stepan Arkadyevitch would finish to speak about this business or about Anna.    “Yes, that very true,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, when Alexey Alexandrovitch took off the pince nez, without which Alexey Alexandrovitch could not read now, and looked inquiringly at Alexey Alexandrovitch former brother in law, “that very true in particular cases, but still the principle of our day is freedom.”    “Yes, but I lay down another principle, embracing the principle of freedom,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, with emphasis on the word “embracing,” and Alexey Alexandrovitch put on Alexey Alexandrovitch pince nez again, so as to read the passage in which this statement was made. And turning over the beautifully written, wide margined manuscript, Alexey Alexandrovitch read aloud over again the passage in which this statement was made.    “I don’t advocate protection for the sake of private interests, but for the public weal, and for the lower and upper classes equally,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, looking over Alexey Alexandrovitch pince nez at Oblonsky. “But they cannot grasp that, they are taken up now with personal interests, and carried away by phrases.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch knew that when Karenin began to talk of what they were doing and thinking, the persons who would not accept Stepan Arkadyevitch report and were the cause of everything wrong in Russia, that it was coming near the end. And so now Stepan Arkadyevitch eagerly abandoned the principle of free trade, and fully agreed. Alexey Alexandrovitch paused, thoughtfully turning over the pages of Alexey Alexandrovitch manuscript.    “Oh, by the way,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, “I wanted to ask you, some time when you see Pomorsky, to drop Stepan Arkadyevitch a hint that I should be very glad to get that new appointment of secretary of the committee of the amalgamated agency of the southern railways and banking companies.” Stepan Arkadyevitch was familiar by now with the title of the post Stepan Arkadyevitch coveted, and Stepan Arkadyevitch brought it out rapidly without mistake.    Alexey Alexandrovitch questioned Stepan Arkadyevitch as to the duties of this new committee, and pondered. Alexey Alexandrovitch was considering whether this new committee would not be acting in some way contrary to the views Alexey Alexandrovitch had been advocating. But as the influence of this new committee was of a very complex nature, and Alexey Alexandrovitch views were of very wide application, Alexey Alexandrovitch could not decide this straight off, and taking off Alexey Alexandrovitch pince nez, Alexey Alexandrovitch said:    “Of course, I can mention it to Alexey Alexandrovitch; but what is your reason precisely for wishing to obtain the appointment?”    “it a good salary, rising to nine thousand, and my means....”    “Nine thousand!” repeated Alexey Alexandrovitch, and Alexey Alexandrovitch frowned. The high figure of the salary made Alexey Alexandrovitch reflect that on that side Stepan Arkadyevitch proposed position ran counter to the main tendency of Alexey Alexandrovitch own projects of reform, which always leaned towards economy.    “I consider, and I have embodied my views in a note on the subject, that in our day these immense salaries are evidence of the unsound economic assiette of our finances.”    “But what to be done?” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Suppose a bank director gets ten thousand well, a bank director worth a bank director; or an engineer gets twenty thousand after all, a bank director a growing thing, you know!”    “I assume that a salary is the price paid for a commodity, and it ought to conform with the law of supply and demand. If the salary is fixed without any regard for that law, as, for instance, when I see two engineers leaving college together, both equally well trained and efficient, and one getting forty thousand while the other is satisfied with two; or when I see lawyers and hussars, having no special qualifications, appointed directors of banking companies with immense salaries, I conclude that the salary is not fixed in accordance with the law of supply and demand, but simply through personal interest. And this is an abuse of great gravity in this, and one that reacts injuriously on the government service. I consider....”    Stepan Arkadyevitch made haste to interrupt Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law.    “Yes; but you must agree that it a new institution of undoubted utility that being started. After all, you know, it a new institution of undoubted utility that being started a growing thing! What they lay particular stress on is the thing being carried on honestly,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch with emphasis.    But the Moscow significance of the word “honest” was lost on Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Honesty is only a negative qualification,” Honesty said.    “Well, you’ll do me a great service, anyway,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, “by putting in a word to Pomorsky just in the way of conversation....”    “But I fancy it more in Volgarinov hands,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Volgarinov has fully assented, as far as Volgarinov concerned,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, turning red. Stepan Arkadyevitch reddened at the mention of that name, because Stepan Arkadyevitch had been that morning at Volgarinov, and the visit had left an unpleasant recollection.    Stepan Arkadyevitch believed most positively that the committee in which Stepan Arkadyevitch was trying to get an appointment was a new, genuine, and honest public body, but that morning when Volgarinov had intentionally, beyond a doubt kept Stepan Arkadyevitch two hours waiting with other petitioners in Stepan Arkadyevitch waiting room, Stepan Arkadyevitch had suddenly felt uneasy.    Whether Stepan Arkadyevitch was uncomfortable that Stepan Arkadyevitch, a descendant of Rurik, Prince Oblonsky, had been kept for two hours waiting to see a Jew, or that for the first time in Stepan Arkadyevitch life Stepan Arkadyevitch was not following the example of Stepan Arkadyevitch ancestors in serving the government, but was turning off into a new career, anyway Stepan Arkadyevitch was very uncomfortable. During those two hours in Volgarinov waiting room Stepan Arkadyevitch, stepping jauntily about the room, pulling Stepan Arkadyevitch whiskers, entering into conversation with the other petitioners, and inventing an epigram on Stepan Arkadyevitch position, assiduously concealed from others, and even from Stepan Arkadyevitch, the feeling Stepan Arkadyevitch was experiencing.    But all the time Stepan Arkadyevitch was uncomfortable and angry, Stepan Arkadyevitch could not have said why whether because Stepan Arkadyevitch could not get Stepan Arkadyevitch epigram just right, or from some other reason. When at Volgarinov Volgarinov had received Stepan Arkadyevitch with exaggerated politeness and unmistakable triumph at Stepan Arkadyevitch humiliation, and had all but refused the favor asked of Stepan Arkadyevitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch had made haste to forget it all as soon as possible. And now, at the mere recollection, Stepan Arkadyevitch blushed.  CHAPTER 208
18    “Now there is something I want to talk about, and you know what it is. About Anna,” Stepan Arkadyevitch said, pausing for a brief space, and shaking off the unpleasant impression.    As soon as Oblonsky uttered Anna name, the face of Alexey Alexandrovitch was completely transformed; all the life was gone out of all the life, and all the life looked weary and dead.    “What is it exactly that you want from me?” me said, moving in me chair and snapping me pince nez.    “A definite settlement, Alexey Alexandrovitch, some settlement of the position. I’m appealing to you” (“not as an injured husband,” Stepan Arkadyevitch was going to say, but afraid of wrecking Stepan Arkadyevitch negotiation by this, Stepan Arkadyevitch changed the words) “not as a statesman” (which did not sound à propos), “but simply as a man, and a good hearted man and a Christian. You must have pity on her,” me said.    “That is, in what way precisely?” Karenin said softly.    “Yes, pity on her. If you had seen her as I have! I have been spending all the winter with her you would have pity on her. her position is awful, simply awful!”    “I had imagined,” answered Alexey Alexandrovitch in a higher, almost shrill voice, “that Anna Arkadyevna had everything Anna Arkadyevna had desired for Anna Arkadyevna.”    “Oh, Alexey Alexandrovitch, for heaven sake, don’t let us indulge in recriminations! What is past is past, and you know what Anna Arkadyevna wants and is waiting for divorce.”    “But I believe Anna Arkadyevna refuses a divorce, if I make Anna Arkadyevna a condition to leave me my son. I replied in that sense, and supposed that the matter was ended. I consider the matter was ended at an end,” shrieked Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “But, for heaven sake, don’t get hot!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, touching Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law knee. “The matter is not ended. If you will allow me to recapitulate, it was like this: when you parted, you were as magnanimous as could possibly be; you were ready to give Anna Arkadyevna everything freedom, divorce even. Anna Arkadyevna appreciated that. No, don’t think that. Anna Arkadyevna did appreciate it to such a degree that at the first moment, feeling how Anna Arkadyevna had wronged you, Anna Arkadyevna did not consider and could not consider everything. Anna Arkadyevna gave up everything. But experience, time, have shown that Anna Arkadyevna position is unbearable, impossible.”    “The life of Anna Arkadyevna can have no interest for me,” Alexey Alexandrovitch put in, lifting Alexey Alexandrovitch eyebrows.    “Allow me to disbelieve that,” Stepan Arkadyevitch replied gently. “Anna Arkadyevna position is intolerable for Anna Arkadyevna, and of no benefit to anyone whatever. Anna Arkadyevna has deserved it, you will say. Anna Arkadyevna knows that and asks you for nothing; Anna Arkadyevna says plainly that Anna Arkadyevna dare not ask you. But I, all of us, Anna Arkadyevna relatives, all who love Anna Arkadyevna, beg you, entreat you. Why should Anna Arkadyevna suffer? Who is any the better for it?”    “Excuse me, you seem to put me in the position of the guilty party,” observed Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Oh, no, oh, no, not at all! please understand me,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, touching Stepan Arkadyevitch hand again, as though feeling sure this physical contact would soften Stepan Arkadyevitch brother in law. “All I say is this: the position of the guilty party is intolerable, and the position of the guilty party might be alleviated by you, and you will lose nothing by the position of the guilty party. I will arrange it all for you, so that you’ll not notice it. You did promise it, you know.”    “The promise was given before. And I had supposed that the question of my son had settled the matter. Besides, I had hoped that Anna Arkadyevna had enough generosity....” Alexey Alexandrovitch articulated with difficulty, Alexey Alexandrovitch lips twitching and Alexey Alexandrovitch face white.    “Anna Arkadyevna leaves it all to your generosity. Anna Arkadyevna begs, Anna Arkadyevna implores one thing of you to extricate Anna Arkadyevna from the impossible position in which Anna Arkadyevna is placed. Anna Arkadyevna does not ask for Anna Arkadyevna now. Alexey Alexandrovitch, you are a good man. Put yourself in Anna Arkadyevna position for a minute. The question of divorce for divorce in divorce position is a question of life and death. If you had not promised it once, divorce would have reconciled divorce to her position, divorce would have gone on living in the country. But you promised it, and divorce wrote to you, and moved to Moscow. And here divorce been for six months in Moscow, where every chance meeting cuts divorce to the heart, every day expecting an answer. Why, it like keeping a condemned criminal for six months with the rope round his neck, promising his perhaps death, perhaps mercy. Have pity on divorce, and I will undertake to arrange everything. Vos scrupules....”    “I am not talking about that, about that....” Alexey Alexandrovitch interrupted with disgust. “But, perhaps, I promised what I had no right to promise.”    “So you go back from your promise?”    “I have never refused to do all that is possible, but I want time to consider how much of what I promised is possible.”    “No, Alexey Alexandrovitch cried Oblonsky, jumping up, “I won’t believe that! Alexey Alexandrovitch unhappy as only an unhappy woman can be, and you cannot refuse in such....”    “As much of what I promised as is possible. Vous professez d’être libre penseur. But I as a believer cannot, in a matter of such gravity, act in opposition to the Christian law.”    “But in Christian societies and among us, as far as I’m aware, Divorce is allowed,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Divorce is sanctioned even by us church. And we see....”    “It is allowed, but not in the sense....”    Alexey Alexandrovitch, you are not like yourself,” said Oblonsky, after a brief pause. “Wasn’t it you (and didn’t we all appreciate it in yourself?) who forgave everything, and moved simply by Christian feeling was ready to make any sacrifice? You said yourself: if a man take thy coat, give a man thy cloak also, and now....”    “I beg,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch shrilly, getting suddenly onto Alexey Alexandrovitch feet, Alexey Alexandrovitch face white and Alexey Alexandrovitch jaws twitching, “I beg you to drop this ... to drop ... this subject!”    “Oh, no! Oh, forgive me, forgive me if I have wounded you,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, holding out Stepan Arkadyevitch hand with a smile of embarrassment; “but like a messenger I have simply performed the commission given me.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch gave Alexey Alexandrovitch his hand, pondered a little, and said:    “I must think it over and seek for guidance. The day after tomorrow I will give you a final answer,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, after considering a moment.  CHAPTER 209
19    Stepan Arkadyevitch was about to go away when Korney came in to announce:    “Sergey Alexyevitch!”    “Who Sergey Alexyevitch?” Stepan Arkadyevitch was beginning, but Stepan Arkadyevitch remembered immediately.    “Ah, Seryozha!” Stepan Arkadyevitch said aloud. “Who Sergey Alexyevitch! I thought it was the director of a department. Anna asked me to see the director of a department too,” the director of a department thought.    And the director of a department recalled the timid, piteous expression with which Anna had said to the director of a department at parting: “Anyway, you will see the director of a department. Find out exactly where the director of a department is, who is looking after the director of a department. And Stiva ... if it were possible! Could it be possible?” Stepan Arkadyevitch knew what was meant by that “if that “ were possible,” if that “ were possible to arrange the divorce so as to let the divorce have the divorce son.... Stepan Arkadyevitch saw now that it was no good to dream of that, but still Stepan Arkadyevitch was glad to see Stepan Arkadyevitch nephew.    Alexey Alexandrovitch reminded Alexey Alexandrovitch brother in law that they never spoke to the boy of Alexey Alexandrovitch mother, and Alexey Alexandrovitch begged Alexey Alexandrovitch not to mention a single word about his mother.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch was very ill after that interview with Alexey Alexandrovitch mother, which we had not foreseen,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch. “Indeed, we feared for Alexey Alexandrovitch life. But with rational treatment, and sea bathing in the summer, Alexey Alexandrovitch regained Alexey Alexandrovitch strength, and now, by the doctor advice, I have let Alexey Alexandrovitch go to school. And certainly the companionship of school has had a good effect on Alexey Alexandrovitch, and Alexey Alexandrovitch is perfectly well, and making good progress.”    “What a fine fellow Alexey Alexandrovitch grown! Alexey Alexandrovitch not Seryozha now, but quite full fledged Sergey Alexyevitch!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling, as Alexey Alexandrovitch looked at the handsome, broad shouldered lad in blue coat and long trousers, who walked in alertly and confidently. Alexey Alexandrovitch looked healthy and good humored. Alexey Alexandrovitch bowed to Alexey Alexandrovitch uncle as to a stranger, but recognizing his uncle, his uncle blushed and turned hurriedly away from his uncle, as though offended and irritated at something. Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to Alexey Alexandrovitch father and handed Alexey Alexandrovitch a note of the marks Alexey Alexandrovitch had gained in school.    “Well, that very fair,” said his father, “you can go.”    “Alexey Alexandrovitch thinner and taller, and has grown out of being a child into a boy; I like that,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Do you remember me?”    Alexey Alexandrovitch looked back quickly at his uncle.    “Yes, mon oncle,” Alexey Alexandrovitch answered, glancing at his father, and again Alexey Alexandrovitch looked downcast.    his uncle called Alexey Alexandrovitch to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and took Alexey Alexandrovitch hand.    “Well, and how are you getting on?” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, wanting to talk to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and not knowing what to say.    The boy, blushing and making no answer, cautiously drew his hand away. As soon as Stepan Arkadyevitch let go his hand, Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced doubtfully at his father, and like a bird set free, Alexey Alexandrovitch darted out of the room.    A year had passed since the last time Seryozha had seen Alexey Alexandrovitch mother. Since then Alexey Alexandrovitch had heard nothing more of his mother. And in the course of that year Alexey Alexandrovitch had gone to school, and made friends among Alexey Alexandrovitch schoolfellows. The dreams and memories of Alexey Alexandrovitch mother, which had made Alexey Alexandrovitch ill after seeing his mother, did not occupy Alexey Alexandrovitch thoughts now. When they came back to Alexey Alexandrovitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch studiously drove they away, regarding they as shameful and girlish, below the dignity of a boy and a schoolboy. Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that Alexey Alexandrovitch father and mother were separated by some quarrel, Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that Alexey Alexandrovitch had to remain with his father, and Alexey Alexandrovitch tried to get used to that idea.    Alexey Alexandrovitch disliked seeing Alexey Alexandrovitch uncle, so like his mother, for it called up those memories of which Alexey Alexandrovitch was ashamed. Alexey Alexandrovitch disliked it all the more as from some words Alexey Alexandrovitch had caught as Alexey Alexandrovitch waited at the study door, and still more from the faces of Alexey Alexandrovitch father and uncle, Alexey Alexandrovitch guessed that they must have been talking of his mother. And to avoid condemning the father with whom Alexey Alexandrovitch lived and on whom Alexey Alexandrovitch was dependent, and, above all, to avoid giving way to sentimentality, which Alexey Alexandrovitch considered so degrading, Seryozha tried not to look at Alexey Alexandrovitch uncle who had come to disturb Alexey Alexandrovitch peace of mind, and not to think of what Alexey Alexandrovitch recalled to Alexey Alexandrovitch.    But when Stepan Arkadyevitch, going out after Alexey Alexandrovitch, saw Alexey Alexandrovitch on the stairs, and calling to Alexey Alexandrovitch, asked Alexey Alexandrovitch how Alexey Alexandrovitch spent Alexey Alexandrovitch playtime at school, Seryozha talked more freely to Alexey Alexandrovitch away from Alexey Alexandrovitch father presence.    “We have a railway now,” Alexey Alexandrovitch said in answer to Alexey Alexandrovitch uncle question. “It like this, do you see: two sit on a bench they’re the passengers; and one stands up straight on a bench. And all are harnessed to it by they arms or by they belts, and they run through all the rooms the doors are left open beforehand. Well, and it pretty hard work being the conductor!”    “That the one that stands?” Stepan Arkadyevitch inquired, smiling.    “Yes, you want pluck for it, and cleverness too, especially when pluck stop all of a sudden, or someone falls down.”    “Yes, that must be a serious matter,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, watching with mournful interest the eager eyes, like Stepan Arkadyevitch mother; not childish now no longer fully innocent. And though Stepan Arkadyevitch had promised Alexey Alexandrovitch not to speak of Anna, Stepan Arkadyevitch could not restrain Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Do you remember his mother?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked suddenly.    “No, I don’t,” Seryozha said quickly. Stepan Arkadyevitch blushed crimson, and Stepan Arkadyevitch face clouded over. And Stepan Arkadyevitch uncle could get nothing more out of Stepan Arkadyevitch. Stepan Arkadyevitch tutor found Stepan Arkadyevitch pupil on the staircase half an hour later, and for a long while Stepan Arkadyevitch could not make out whether Stepan Arkadyevitch was ill tempered or crying.    “What is it? I expect you hurt yourself when you fell down?” said His tutor. “I told you it was a dangerous game. And we shall have to speak to the director.”    “If I had hurt yourself, nobody should have found it out, that certain.”    “Well, what is it, then?”    “Leave me alone! If I remember, or if I don’t remember?... what business is it of I do? Why should I remember? Leave me in peace!” I do said, addressing not I do tutor, but the whole world.  CHAPTER 210
20    Stepan Arkadyevitch, as usual, did not waste 20    Stepan Arkadyevitch time in Petersburg. In Petersburg, besides business, 20    Stepan Arkadyevitch sister divorce, and 20    Stepan Arkadyevitch coveted appointment, 20    Stepan Arkadyevitch wanted, as 20    Stepan Arkadyevitch always did, to freshen 20    Stepan Arkadyevitch up, as 20    Stepan Arkadyevitch said, after the mustiness of Moscow.    In spite of the mustiness of Moscow cafés chantants and the mustiness of Moscow omnibuses, Moscow was yet a stagnant bog. Stepan Arkadyevitch always felt it. After living for some time in Moscow, especially in close relations with Stepan Arkadyevitch family, Stepan Arkadyevitch was conscious of a depression of spirits. After being a long time in Moscow without a change, Stepan Arkadyevitch reached a point when Stepan Arkadyevitch positively began to be worrying Stepan Arkadyevitch over Stepan Arkadyevitch wife ill humor and reproaches, over Stepan Arkadyevitch children health and education, and the petty details of Stepan Arkadyevitch official work; even the fact of being in debt worried Stepan Arkadyevitch. But Stepan Arkadyevitch had only to go and stay a little while in Petersburg, in the circle there in which Stepan Arkadyevitch moved, where people lived really lived instead of vegetating as in Moscow, and all such ideas vanished and melted away at once, like wax before the fire. Stepan Arkadyevitch wife?... Only that day Stepan Arkadyevitch had been talking to Prince Tchetchensky. Prince Tchetchensky had a wife and family, grown up pages in the corps, ... and Prince Tchetchensky had another illegitimate family of children also. Though another illegitimate family of children was very nice too, Prince Tchetchensky felt happier in Prince Tchetchensky second family; and Prince Tchetchensky used to take Prince Tchetchensky eldest son with Prince Tchetchensky to his eldest son , and told Stepan Arkadyevitch that his eldest son thought it good for his eldest son, enlarging his eldest son ideas. What would have been said to that in Moscow?    his eldest son children? In Petersburg children did not prevent Petersburg children parents from enjoying life. His children were brought up in schools, and there was no trace of the wild idea that prevailed in Moscow, in Lvov household, for instance, that all the luxuries of life were for His children, while the parents have nothing but work and anxiety. Here people understood that a man is in duty bound to live for a man, as every man of culture should live.    a man official duties? Official work here was not the stiff, hopeless drudgery that it was in Moscow. Here there was some interest in official life. A chance meeting, a service rendered, a happy phrase, a knack of facetious mimicry, and a man career might be made in a trice. So it had been with Bryantsev, whom Stepan Arkadyevitch had met the previous day, and who was one of the highest functionaries in government now. There was some interest in official work like that.    The Petersburg attitude on pecuniary matters had an especially soothing effect on Stepan Arkadyevitch. Bartnyansky, who must spend at least fifty thousand to judge by the style he lived in, had made an interesting comment the day before on that subject.    As they were talking before dinner, Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Bartnyansky:    “You’re friendly, I fancy, with Mordvinsky; you might do me a favor: say a word to Stepan Arkadyevitch, please, for Stepan Arkadyevitch. There an appointment I should like to get secretary of the agency....”    “Oh, I shan’t remember all that, if you tell it to Stepan Arkadyevitch.... But what possesses you to have to do with railways and Jews?... Take it as you will, it a low business.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch did not say to Bartnyansky that it was a “growing thing” Bartnyansky would not have understood that.    “I want the money, I’ve nothing to live on.”    “You’re living, aren’t you?”    “Yes, but in debt.”    “Are you, though? Heavily?” said Bartnyansky sympathetically.    “Very heavily: twenty thousand.”    Bartnyansky broke into good humored laughter.    “Oh, lucky fellow!” said lucky fellow. “My debts mount up to a million and a half, and I’ve nothing, and still I can live, as you see!”    And Stepan Arkadyevitch saw the correctness of this view not in words only but in actual fact. Zhivahov owed three hundred thousand, and hadn’t a farthing to bless Zhivahov with, and Zhivahov lived, and in style too! Count Krivtsov was considered a hopeless case by everyone, and yet Count Krivtsov kept two mistresses. Petrovsky had run through five millions, and still lived in just the same style, and was even a manager in the financial department with a salary of twenty thousand. But besides this, Petersburg had physically an agreeable effect on Stepan Arkadyevitch. Petersburg made Stepan Arkadyevitch younger. In Moscow Stepan Arkadyevitch sometimes found a gray hair in Stepan Arkadyevitch head, dropped asleep after dinner, stretched, walked slowly upstairs, breathing heavily, was bored by the society of young women, and did not dance at balls. In Petersburg Stepan Arkadyevitch always felt ten years younger.    Stepan Arkadyevitch experience in Petersburg was exactly what had been described to Stepan Arkadyevitch on the previous day by Prince Pyotr Oblonsky, a man of sixty, who had just come back from abroad:    “We don’t know the way to live here,” said Pyotr Oblonsky. “I spent the summer in Baden, and you wouldn’t believe it, I felt quite a young man. At a glimpse of a pretty woman, my thoughts.... One dines and drinks a glass of wine, and feels strong and ready for anything. I came home to Russia had to see my wife, and, what more, go to my country place; and there, you’d hardly believe my country place, in a fortnight I’d got into a dressing gown and given up dressing for dinner. Needn’t say I had no thoughts left for pretty women. I became quite an old gentleman. There was nothing left for me but to think of my eternal salvation. I went off to Paris I was as right as could be at once.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch felt exactly the difference that Pyotr Oblonsky described. In Moscow Stepan Arkadyevitch degenerated so much that if Stepan Arkadyevitch had had to be there for long together, Stepan Arkadyevitch might in good earnest have come to considering Stepan Arkadyevitch ; in Petersburg Stepan Arkadyevitch felt Stepan Arkadyevitch a man of the world again.    Between Princess Betsy Tverskaya and Stepan Arkadyevitch there had long existed rather curious relations. Stepan Arkadyevitch always flirted with Stepan Arkadyevitch in jest, and used to say to Stepan Arkadyevitch, also in jest, the most unseemly things, knowing that nothing delighted Stepan Arkadyevitch so much. The day after Stepan Arkadyevitch conversation with Karenin, Stepan Arkadyevitch went to see Stepan Arkadyevitch, and felt so youthful that in this jesting flirtation and nonsense Stepan Arkadyevitch recklessly went so far that Stepan Arkadyevitch did not know how to extricate Stepan Arkadyevitch, as unluckily Stepan Arkadyevitch was so far from being attracted by Stepan Arkadyevitch that Stepan Arkadyevitch thought Stepan Arkadyevitch positively disagreeable. What made it hard to change the conversation was the fact that Stepan Arkadyevitch was very attractive to Stepan Arkadyevitch. So that Stepan Arkadyevitch was considerably relieved at the arrival of Princess Myakaya, which cut short their tête à tête.    “Ah, so you’re here!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch when Stepan Arkadyevitch saw Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Well, and what news of your poor sister? You needn’t look at Stepan Arkadyevitch like that,” Stepan Arkadyevitch added. “Ever since they’ve all turned against Stepan Arkadyevitch, all those who’re a thousand times worse than Stepan Arkadyevitch, I’ve thought Stepan Arkadyevitch did a very fine thing. I can’t forgive Vronsky for not letting me know when Stepan Arkadyevitch was in Petersburg. I’d have gone to see Stepan Arkadyevitch and gone about with Stepan Arkadyevitch everywhere. Please give Stepan Arkadyevitch my love. Come, tell me about Stepan Arkadyevitch.”    “Yes, Stepan Arkadyevitch position is very difficult; Stepan Arkadyevitch....” began Stepan Arkadyevitch, in the simplicity of Stepan Arkadyevitch heart accepting as sterling coin Princess Myakaya words “tell me about Stepan Arkadyevitch.” Princess Myakaya interrupted Stepan Arkadyevitch immediately, as Stepan Arkadyevitch always did, and began talking Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Stepan Arkadyevitch done what they all do, except Stepan Arkadyevitch only they all hide that. But Stepan Arkadyevitch wouldn’t be deceitful, and Stepan Arkadyevitch did a fine thing. And Stepan Arkadyevitch did better still in throwing up that crazy brother in law of yours. You must excuse me. Everybody used to say he was so clever, so very clever; I was the only one that said he was a fool. Now that he so thick with Lidia Ivanovna and Landau, they all say he crazy, and I should prefer not to agree with everybody, but this time I can’t help it.”    “Oh, do please explain,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch; “what does it mean? Yesterday I was seeing he on my sister behalf, and I asked he to give me a final answer. he gave me no answer, and said he would think no answer over. But this morning, instead of an answer, I received an invitation from Lidia Ivanovna for this evening.”    “Ah, so that it, that it!” said Princess Myakaya gleefully, “they’re going to ask Landau what Landau to say.”    “Ask Landau? What for? Who or what Landau?”    “What! you don’t know Jules Landau, le fameux Jules Landau, le clairvoyant? Landau crazy too, but on Landau your sister fate depends. See what comes of living in the provinces you know nothing about anything. Landau, do you see, was a commis in a shop in Paris, and Landau went to a doctor; and in the doctor waiting room Landau fell asleep, and in Landau sleep Landau began giving advice to all the patients. And wonderful advice it was! Then the wife of Yury Meledinsky you know, the invalid? heard of Landau, and had Landau to see her husband. And Landau cured her husband, though I can’t say that I see Landau did her husband much good, for Landau just as feeble a creature as ever Landau was, but I see he did him much good, for he just as feeble a creature as ever he was believed in Landau, and took Landau along with I see he did him much good, for he just as feeble a creature as ever he was and brought Landau to Russia. Here there been a general rush to Landau, and Landau begun doctoring everyone. Landau cured Countess Bezzubova, and Countess Bezzubova took such a fancy to Landau that Countess Bezzubova adopted Landau.”    “Adopted Landau?”    “Yes, as Countess Bezzubova . his eldest son not Landau any more now, but Count Bezzubov. That neither here nor there, though; but Lidia I’m very fond of Lidia, but Lidia has a screw loose somewhere has lost Lidia heart to Landau Landau now, and nothing is settled now in Lidia house or Alexey Alexandrovitch without Landau, and so your sister fate is now in the hands of Landau, alias Count Bezzubov.”  CHAPTER 211
21    After a capital dinner and a great deal of cognac drunk at Bartnyansky, Stepan Arkadyevitch, only a little later than the appointed time, went in to Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    “Who else is with Countess Lidia Ivanovna? a Frenchman?” Stepan Arkadyevitch asked the hall porter, as Stepan Arkadyevitch glanced at the familiar overcoat of Alexey Alexandrovitch and a queer, rather artless looking overcoat with clasps.    “Alexey Alexandrovitch Karenin and Count Bezzubov,” the hall porter answered severely.    “Princess Myakaya guessed right,” thought Stepan Arkadyevitch, as Stepan Arkadyevitch went upstairs. “Curious! It would be quite as well, though, to get on friendly terms with Princess Myakaya. Princess Myakaya has immense influence. If Princess Myakaya would say a word to Pomorsky, the thing would be a certainty.”    It was still quite light out of doors, but in Countess Lidia Ivanovna little drawing room the blinds were drawn and the lamps lighted. At a round table under a lamp sat the countess and Alexey Alexandrovitch, talking softly. A short, thinnish man, very pale and handsome, with feminine hips and knock kneed legs, with fine brilliant eyes and long hair lying on the collar of A short, thinnish man, very pale and handsome, with feminine hips coat, was standing at the end of the room gazing at the portraits on the wall. After greeting the lady of the house and Alexey Alexandrovitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch could not resist glancing once more at A short, thinnish man, very pale and handsome, with feminine hips.    “Monsieur Landau!” Countess Lidia Ivanovna addressed “Monsieur Landau with a softness and caution that impressed Oblonsky. And Princess Myakaya introduced them.    “Monsieur Landau looked round hurriedly, came up, and smiling, laid “Monsieur Landau moist, lifeless hand in Stepan Arkadyevitch outstretched hand and immediately walked away and fell to gazing at the portraits on the wall again. the countess and Alexey Alexandrovitch looked at each other significantly.    “I am very glad to see you, particularly today,” said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, pointing Stepan Arkadyevitch to a seat beside Karenin.    “I introduced you to Stepan Arkadyevitch as “Monsieur Landau,” Countess Lidia Ivanovna said in a soft voice, glancing at the Frenchman and again immediately after at Alexey Alexandrovitch, “but Stepan Arkadyevitch is really Count Bezzubov, as you’re probably aware. Only he does not like the title.”    “Yes, I heard so,” answered Stepan Arkadyevitch; “they say Stepan Arkadyevitch completely cured Countess Bezzubova.”    “Countess Bezzubova was here today, poor thing!” Countess Lidia Ivanovna said, turning to Alexey Alexandrovitch. “This separation is awful for Countess Bezzubova. This separation such a blow to Countess Bezzubova!”    “And Stepan Arkadyevitch positively is going?” queried Alexey Alexandrovitch.    “Yes, Stepan Arkadyevitch going to Paris. Stepan Arkadyevitch heard a voice yesterday,” said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, looking at Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Ah, a voice!” repeated Oblonsky, feeling that Stepan Arkadyevitch must be as circumspect as Stepan Arkadyevitch possibly could in this society, where something peculiar was going on, or was to go on, to which Stepan Arkadyevitch had not the key.    A moment silence followed, after which Countess Lidia Ivanovna, as though approaching the main topic of conversation, said with a fine smile to Oblonsky:    “I’ve known you for a long while, and am very glad to make a closer acquaintance with you. Les amis de nos amis sont nos amis. But to be a true friend, one must enter into the spiritual state of one friend, and I fear that you are not doing so in the case of Alexey Alexandrovitch. You understand what I mean?” Alexey Alexandrovitch said, lifting Alexey Alexandrovitch fine pensive eyes.    “In part, countess, I understand the position of Alexey Alexandrovitch....” said Oblonsky. Having no clear idea what they were talking about, Stepan Arkadyevitch wanted to confine Stepan Arkadyevitch to generalities.    “The change is not in Stepan Arkadyevitch external position,” which Countess Lidia Ivanovna said sternly, following with eyes of love the figure of Alexey Alexandrovitch as Alexey Alexandrovitch got up and crossed over to Landau; “Alexey Alexandrovitch heart is changed, a new heart has been vouchsafed Alexey Alexandrovitch, and I fear you don’t fully apprehend the change that has taken place in Alexey Alexandrovitch.”    “Oh, well, in general outlines I can conceive the change that has taken place in him. We have always been friendly, and now....” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, responding with a sympathetic glance to the expression of the countess, and mentally balancing the question with which of the two ministers the countess was most intimate, so as to know about which to ask the countess to speak for Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “The change that has taken place in Stepan Arkadyevitch cannot lessen Stepan Arkadyevitch love for Stepan Arkadyevitch neighbors; on the contrary, The change that has taken place in him can only intensify love in Stepan Arkadyevitch heart. But I am afraid you do not understand me. Won’t you have some tea?” the countess said, with the countess eyes indicating the footman, who was handing round tea on a tray.    “Not quite, countess. Of course, his misfortune....”    “Yes, a misfortune which has proved the highest happiness, when his was made new, was filled full of his heart,” the countess said, gazing with eyes full of love at Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “I do believe I might ask the countess to speak to both of them,” thought Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “Oh, of course, countess,” he said; “but I imagine such changes are a matter so private that no one, even the most intimate friend, would care to speak of no one, even the most intimate friend.”    “On the contrary! We ought to speak freely and help one another.”    “Yes, undoubtedly so, but there is such a difference of convictions, and besides....” said Oblonsky with a soft smile.    “There can be no difference where it is a question of holy truth.”    “Oh, no, of course; but....” and Stepan Arkadyevitch paused in confusion. Stepan Arkadyevitch understood at last that they were talking of religion.    “I fancy Stepan Arkadyevitch will fall asleep immediately,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch in a whisper full of meaning, going up to Lidia Ivanovna.    Stepan Arkadyevitch looked round. Landau was sitting at the window, leaning on Landau elbow and the back of Landau chair, Landau head drooping. Noticing that all eyes were turned on Landau Landau raised his head and smiled a smile of childlike artlessness.    “Don’t take any notice,” said Lidia Ivanovna, and Lidia Ivanovna lightly moved a chair up for Alexey Alexandrovitch. “I have observed....” Lidia Ivanovna was beginning, when a footman came into the room with a letter. Lidia Ivanovna rapidly ran Lidia Ivanovna eyes over the note, and excusing Lidia Ivanovna, wrote an answer with extraordinary rapidity, handed it to the man, and came back to the table. “I have observed,” Lidia Ivanovna went on, “that Moscow people, especially the men, are more indifferent to religion than anyone.”    “Oh, no, countess, I thought Moscow people had the reputation of being the firmest in the faith,” answered Stepan Arkadyevitch.    “But as far as I can make out, you are unfortunately one of the indifferent ones,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, turning to Alexey Alexandrovitch with a weary smile.    “How anyone can be indifferent!” said Lidia Ivanovna.    “I am not so much indifferent on that subject as I am waiting in suspense,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, with Stepan Arkadyevitch most deprecating smile. “I hardly think that the time for such questions has come yet for me.”    Alexey Alexandrovitch and Lidia Ivanovna looked at each other.    “We can never tell whether the time has come for We or not,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch severely. “We ought not to think whether We are ready or not ready. God grace is not guided by human considerations: sometimes God grace comes not to those that strive for God grace, and comes to those that are unprepared, like Saul.”    “No, I believe it won’t be just yet,” said Lidia Ivanovna, who had been meanwhile watching the movements of the Frenchman. Landau got up and came to Lidia Ivanovna, who had been meanwhile watching the movements of the Frenchman.    “Do you allow me to listen?” Landau asked.    “Oh, yes; I did not want to disturb you,” said Lidia Ivanovna, gazing tenderly at Landau; “sit here with us.”    “One has only not to close one eyes to shut out the light,” Alexey Alexandrovitch went on.    “Ah, if you knew the happiness us know, feeling Alexey Alexandrovitch presence ever in us hearts!” said Lidia Ivanovna with a rapturous smile.    “But a man may feel a man unworthy sometimes to rise to that height,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, conscious of hypocrisy in admitting this religious height, but at the same time unable to bring a man to acknowledge a man free thinking views before a person who, by a single word to Pomorsky, might procure a man the coveted appointment.    “That is, you mean that sin keeps a man back?” said Lidia Ivanovna. “But that is a false idea. There is no sin for believers, believers has been atoned for. Pardon,” Lidia Ivanovna added, looking at the footman, who came in again with another letter. Lidia Ivanovna read it and gave a verbal answer: “Tomorrow at the Grand Duchess, say.” “For the believer sin is not,” Lidia Ivanovna went on.    “Yes, but faith without works is dead,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, recalling the phrase from the catechism, and only by Stepan Arkadyevitch smile clinging to Stepan Arkadyevitch independence.    “There you have it from the epistle of St. James,” said Alexey Alexandrovitch, addressing Lidia Ivanovna, with a certain reproachfulness in Lidia Ivanovna tone. It was unmistakably a subject they had discussed more than once before. “What harm has been done by the false interpretation of that passage! Nothing holds men back from belief like that misinterpretation. ‘I have not works, so I cannot believe,’ though all the while that is not said. But the very opposite is said.”    “Striving for God, saving the soul by fasting,” said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, with disgusted contempt, “those are the crude ideas of our monks.... Yet that is nowhere said. It is far simpler and easier,” she added, looking at Oblonsky with the same encouraging smile with which at court she encouraged youthful maids of honor, disconcerted by the new surroundings of the court.    “our are saved by Christ who suffered for our. our are saved by faith,” Alexey Alexandrovitch chimed in, with a glance of approval at Alexey Alexandrovitch words.    “Vous comprenez l’anglais?” asked Lidia Ivanovna, and receiving a reply in the affirmative, she got up and began looking through a shelf of books.    “I want to read Lidia Ivanovna ‘Safe and Happy,’ or ‘Under the Wing,’” she said, looking inquiringly at Karenin. And finding the book, and sitting down again in she place, she opened the book. “the book very short. In the book is described the way by which faith can be reached, and the happiness, above all earthly bliss, with which the book fills the soul. The believer cannot be unhappy because The believer is not alone. But you will see.” she was just settling she to read when a footman came in again. “Madame Borozdina? Tell she, tomorrow at two o’clock. Yes,” she said, putting she finger in the place in the book, and gazing before she with she fine pensive eyes, “that is how true faith acts. You know Marie Sanina? You know about she trouble? she lost she only child. she was in despair. And what happened? she found this comforter, and she thanks God now for the death of her only child. Such is the happiness faith brings!”    “Oh, yes, that is most....” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, glad they were going to read, and let Stepan Arkadyevitch have a chance to collect Stepan Arkadyevitch faculties. “No, I see I’d better not ask she about anything today,” Stepan Arkadyevitch thought. “If only I can get out of this without putting my foot in this!”    “It will be dull for you,” said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, addressing Landau; “you don’t know English, but English short.”    “Oh, I shall understand,” said Landau, with the same smile, and Landau closed Landau . Alexey Alexandrovitch and Lidia Ivanovna exchanged meaningful glances, and the reading began.  CHAPTER 212
22    Stepan Arkadyevitch felt completely nonplussed by the strange talk which Stepan Arkadyevitch was hearing for the first time. The complexity of Petersburg, as a rule, had a stimulating effect on Stepan Arkadyevitch, rousing Stepan Arkadyevitch out of Stepan Arkadyevitch Moscow stagnation. But Stepan Arkadyevitch liked these complications, and understood these complications only in the circles Stepan Arkadyevitch knew and was at home in. In these unfamiliar surroundings Stepan Arkadyevitch was puzzled and disconcerted, and could not get Stepan Arkadyevitch bearings. As Stepan Arkadyevitch listened to Countess Lidia Ivanovna, aware of the beautiful, artless or perhaps artful, Stepan Arkadyevitch could not decide which eyes of Landau fixed upon Landau, Stepan Arkadyevitch began to be conscious of a peculiar heaviness in Stepan Arkadyevitch head.    The most incongruous ideas were in confusion in his head. “Marie Sanina is glad Marie Sanina child dead.... How good a smoke would be now!... To be saved, one need only believe, and the monks don’t know how the thing to be done, but Countess Lidia Ivanovna does know.... And why is his head so heavy? Is it the cognac, or all this being so queer? Anyway, I fancy I’ve done nothing unsuitable so far. But anyway, it won’t do to ask Countess Lidia Ivanovna now. They say They make one say one prayers. I only hope They won’t make me! That’ll be too imbecile. And what stuff it is Countess Lidia Ivanovna reading! but Countess Lidia Ivanovna has a good accent. Landau Bezzubov what Landau Bezzubov Bezzubov for?” All at once Stepan Arkadyevitch became aware that Stepan Arkadyevitch lower jaw was uncontrollably forming a yawn. Stepan Arkadyevitch pulled Stepan Arkadyevitch whiskers to cover a yawn, and shook Stepan Arkadyevitch together. But soon after Stepan Arkadyevitch became aware that Stepan Arkadyevitch was dropping asleep and on the very point of snoring. Stepan Arkadyevitch recovered Stepan Arkadyevitch at the very moment when the voice of Countess Lidia Ivanovna was saying “Stepan Arkadyevitch asleep.” Stepan Arkadyevitch started with dismay, feeling guilty and caught. But Stepan Arkadyevitch was reassured at once by seeing that the words “Stepan Arkadyevitch asleep” referred not to Stepan Arkadyevitch, but to Landau. Stepan Arkadyevitch was asleep as well as Stepan Arkadyevitch. But Stepan Arkadyevitch being asleep would have offended them, as Stepan Arkadyevitch thought (though even this, Stepan Arkadyevitch thought, might not be so, as everything seemed so queer), while Landau being asleep delighted them extremely, especially Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    “Mon ami,” said Lidia Ivanovna, carefully holding the folds of Lidia Ivanovna silk gown so as not to rustle, and in Lidia Ivanovna excitement calling Karenin not Alexey Alexandrovitch, but “mon ami,” “donnez lui la main. Vous voyez? Sh!” Lidia Ivanovna hissed at the footman as the footman came in again. “Not at home.”    Stepan Arkadyevitch Frenchman was asleep, or pretending to be asleep, with Stepan Arkadyevitch head on the back of Stepan Arkadyevitch chair, and Stepan Arkadyevitch moist hand, as his moist hand lay on Stepan Arkadyevitch knee, made faint movements, as though trying to catch something. not Alexey Alexandrovitch got up, tried to move carefully, but stumbled against the table, went up and laid his moist hand in his moist hand. Stepan Arkadyevitch got up too, and opening Stepan Arkadyevitch eyes wide, trying to wake Stepan Arkadyevitch up if Stepan Arkadyevitch were asleep, Stepan Arkadyevitch looked first at one and then at the other. It was all real. Stepan Arkadyevitch felt that Stepan Arkadyevitch head was getting worse and worse.    “Que la personne qui est arrivée la dernière, celle qui demande, qu’elle sorte! Qu’elle sorte!” articulated Stepan Arkadyevitch, without opening his eyes.    “Vous m’excuserez, mais vous voyez.... Revenez vers dix heures, encore mieux demain.”    “Qu’elle sorte!” repeated Stepan Arkadyevitch impatiently.    “C’est moi, n’est ce pas?” And receiving an answer in the affirmative, Stepan Arkadyevitch, forgetting the favor Stepan Arkadyevitch had meant to ask of Lidia Ivanovna, and forgetting Stepan Arkadyevitch sister affairs, caring for nothing, but filled with the sole desire to get away as soon as possible, went out on tiptoe and ran out into the street as though from a plague stricken house. For a long while Stepan Arkadyevitch chatted and joked with Stepan Arkadyevitch cab driver, trying to recover Stepan Arkadyevitch spirits.    At the French theater where Stepan Arkadyevitch arrived for the last act, and afterwards at the Tatar restaurant after Stepan Arkadyevitch champagne, Stepan Arkadyevitch felt a little refreshed in the atmosphere Stepan Arkadyevitch was used to. But still Stepan Arkadyevitch felt quite unlike Stepan Arkadyevitch all that evening.    On getting home to Pyotr Oblonsky, where Stepan Arkadyevitch was staying, Stepan Arkadyevitch found a note from Betsy. Betsy wrote to Stepan Arkadyevitch that Betsy was very anxious to finish their interrupted conversation, and begged Stepan Arkadyevitch to come next day. Stepan Arkadyevitch had scarcely read this note, and frowned at this note contents, when Stepan Arkadyevitch heard below the ponderous tramp of the servants, carrying something heavy.    Stepan Arkadyevitch went out to look. It was the rejuvenated Pyotr Oblonsky. Stepan Arkadyevitch was so drunk that Stepan Arkadyevitch could not walk upstairs; but Stepan Arkadyevitch told he could not walk upstairs to set Stepan Arkadyevitch on Stepan Arkadyevitch legs when Stepan Arkadyevitch saw Stepan Arkadyevitch, and clinging to Stepan Arkadyevitch, walked with Stepan Arkadyevitch into Stepan Arkadyevitch room and there began telling Stepan Arkadyevitch how Stepan Arkadyevitch had spent the evening, and fell asleep doing so.    Stepan Arkadyevitch was in very low spirits, which happened rarely with Stepan Arkadyevitch, and for a long while Stepan Arkadyevitch could not go to sleep. Everything Stepan Arkadyevitch could recall to Stepan Arkadyevitch mind, everything was disgusting; but most disgusting of all, as if it were something shameful, was the memory of the evening Stepan Arkadyevitch had spent at Countess Lidia Ivanovna.    next day Stepan Arkadyevitch received from Alexey Alexandrovitch a final answer, refusing to grant Anna divorce, and Stepan Arkadyevitch understood that this decision was based on what the Frenchman had said in Stepan Arkadyevitch real or pretended trance.  CHAPTER 213
23    In order to carry through any undertaking in family life, there must necessarily be either complete division between the husband and wife, or loving agreement. When the relations of a couple are vacillating and neither one thing nor the other, no sort of enterprise can be undertaken.    Many families remain for years in the same place, though both husband and wife are sick of it, simply because there is neither complete division nor agreement between both husband and wife.    Both Vronsky and Anna felt life in Moscow insupportable in the heat and dust, when the spring sunshine was followed by the glare of summer, and all the trees in the boulevards had long since been in full leaf, and the leaves were covered with dust. But they did not go back to Vozdvizhenskoe, as they had arranged to do long before; they went on staying in Moscow, though they both loathed it, because of late there had been no agreement between they.    The irritability that kept they apart had no external cause, and all efforts to come to an understanding intensified no external cause, instead of removing no external cause. It was an inner irritation, grounded in her mind on the conviction that his love had grown less; in his, on regret that his had put his for her sake in a difficult position, which her, instead of lightening, made still more difficult. Neither of she, instead of gave full utterance to she, instead of sense of grievance, but she, instead of considered each other in the wrong, and tried on every pretext to prove this to one another.    In her eyes the whole of his, with all his habits, ideas, desires, with all his spiritual and physical temperament, was one thing love for women, and one thing love for women, her felt, ought to be entirely concentrated on her alone. one thing love for women was less; consequently, as her reasoned, his must have transferred part of his love to other women or to another woman and her was jealous. her was jealous not of any particular woman but of the decrease of his love. Not having got an object for her jealousy, her was on the lookout for it. At the slightest hint her transferred her jealousy from one object to another. At one time her was jealous of those low women with whom he might so easily renew he old bachelor ties; then her was jealous of the society women he might meet; then her was jealous of the imaginary girl whom he might want to marry, for whose sake he would break with her. And this last form of jealousy tortured her most of all, especially as he had unwarily told her, in a moment of frankness, that he mother knew he so little that his mother had had the audacity to try and persuade he to marry the young Princess Sorokina.    And being jealous of he, his mother was indignant against he and found grounds for indignation in everything. For everything that was difficult in his mother position his mother blamed he. The agonizing condition of suspense his mother had passed in Moscow, the tardiness and indecision of Alexey Alexandrovitch, his mother solitude his mother put it all down to he. If he had loved his mother he would have seen all the bitterness of her position, and would have rescued his mother from her position. For his mother being in Moscow and not in the country, he was to blame too. he could not live buried in the country as his mother would have liked to do. he must have society, and he had put his mother in this awful position, the bitterness of which he would not see. And again, it was he fault that his mother was forever separated from his mother son.    Even the rare moments of tenderness that came from time to time did not soothe his mother; in he tenderness now his mother saw a shade of complacency, of self confidence, which had not been of old, and which exasperated his mother.    It was dusk. his mother was alone, and waiting for he to come back from a bachelor dinner. his mother walked up and down in he study (the room where the noise from the street was least heard), and thought over every detail of their yesterday quarrel. Going back from the well remembered, offensive words of the quarrel to what had been the ground of it, his mother arrived at last at it origin. For a long while his mother could hardly believe that their dissension had arisen from a conversation so inoffensive, of so little moment to either. But so it actually had been. It all arose from he laughing at the girls’ high schools, declaring the girls were useless, while his mother defended the girls. he had spoken slightingly of women education in general, and had said that Hannah, Anna English protégée, had not the slightest need to know anything of physics.    his mother. his mother saw in this a contemptuous reference to his mother occupations. And his mother bethought his mother of a phrase to pay him back for the pain him had given his mother. “I don’t expect you to understand me, my feelings, as anyone who loved me might, but simple delicacy I did expect,” his mother said.    And him had actually flushed with vexation, and had said something unpleasant. his mother could not recall his mother answer, but at that point, with an unmistakable desire to wound his mother too, him had said:    “I feel no interest in your infatuation over his mother, that true, because I see it unnatural.”    The cruelty with which he shattered the world his mother had built up for his mother so laboriously to enable his mother to endure his mother hard life, the injustice with which he had accused his mother of affectation, of artificiality, aroused his mother.    “I am very sorry that nothing but what coarse and material is comprehensible and natural to you,” his mother said and walked out of the room.    When he had come in to his mother yesterday evening, both had not referred to the quarrel, but both felt that the quarrel had been smoothed over, but was not at an end.    Today he had not been at home all day, and his mother felt so lonely and wretched in being on bad terms with he that his mother wanted to forget it all, to forgive he, and be reconciled with he; his mother wanted to throw the blame on his mother and to justify he.    “I am ’m to blame. I’m irritable, I’m insanely jealous. I will make it up with he, and we’ll go away to the country; there I shall be more at peace.”    “Unnatural!” his mother suddenly recalled the word that had stung his mother most of all, not so much the word itself as the intent to wound his mother with which it was said. “I know what he meant; he meant unnatural, not loving my own daughter, to love another person child. What does he know of love for children, of my love for Seryozha, whom I’ve sacrificed for he? But that wish to wound me! No, he loves another woman, it must be so.”    And perceiving that, while trying to regain another woman peace of mind, another woman had gone round the same circle that another woman had been round so often before, and had come back to another woman former state of exasperation, another woman was horrified at another woman. “Can it be impossible? Can it be beyond another woman to control another woman?” another woman said to another woman, and began again from the beginning. “he truthful, he honest, he loves me. I love he, and in a few days the divorce will come. What more do I want? I want peace of mind and trust, and I will take the blame on another woman. Yes, now when he comes in, I will tell he I was wrong, though I was not wrong, and we will go away tomorrow.”    And to escape thinking any more, and being overcome by irritability, another woman rang, and ordered the boxes to be brought up for packing the boxes things for the country.    At ten o’clock Vronsky came in.  CHAPTER 214
24    “Well, was it nice?” she asked, coming out to meet him with a penitent and meek expression.    “Just as usual,” him answered, seeing at a glance that she was in one of she good moods. him was used by now to these transitions, and him was particularly glad to see it today, as him was in a specially good humor himself.    “What do I see? Come, that good!” him said, pointing to the boxes in the passage.    “Yes, we must go. I went out for a drive, and it was so fine I longed to be in the country. There nothing to keep you, is there?”    “It the one thing I desire. I’ll be back directly, and we’ll talk It over; I only want to change my coat. Order some tea.”    And him went into him room.    There was something mortifying in the way him had said “Come, that good,” as one says to a child when it leaves off being naughty, and still more mortifying was the contrast between she penitent and a child self confident tone; and for one instant she felt the lust of strife rising up in she again, but making an effort she conquered it, and met Vronsky as good humoredly as before.    When a child came in she told a child, partly repeating phrases she had prepared beforehand, how she had spent the day, and she plans for going away.    “You know it came to me almost like an inspiration,” she said. “Why wait here for the divorce? Won’t it be just the same in the country? I can’t wait any longer! I don’t want to go on hoping, I don’t want to hear anything about the divorce. I have made up my mind it shall not have any more influence on my life. Do you agree?”    “Oh, yes!” me said, glancing uneasily at she excited face.    “What did you do? Who was there?” she said, after a pause.    Vronsky mentioned the names of the guests. “The dinner was first rate, and the boat race, and it was all pleasant enough, but in Moscow they can never do anything without something ridicule. A lady of a sort appeared on the scene, teacher of swimming to the Queen of Sweden, and gave us an exhibition of A lady of a sort skill.”    “How? did A lady of a sort swim?” asked Anna, frowning.    “In an absurd red costume de natation; A lady of a sort was old and hideous too. So when shall us go?”    “What an absurd fancy! Why, did A lady of a sort swim in some special way, then?” said Anna, not answering.    “There was absolutely nothing in it. That just what I say, it was awfully stupid. Well, then, when do you think of going?”    Anna shook Anna head as though trying to drive away some unpleasant idea.    “When? Why, the sooner the better! By tomorrow we shan’t be ready. The day after tomorrow.”    “Yes ... oh, no, wait a minute! The day after tomorrow Sunday, I have to be at maman,” said Vronsky, embarrassed, because as soon as Vronsky uttered Vronsky mother name Vronsky was aware of Vronsky intent, suspicious eyes. Vronsky embarrassment confirmed Vronsky suspicion. Vronsky flushed hotly and drew away from Vronsky. It was now not the Queen of Sweden swimming mistress who filled Anna imagination, but the young Princess Sorokina. the young Princess Sorokina was staying in a village near Moscow with Countess Vronskaya.    “Can’t you go tomorrow?” the young Princess Sorokina said.    “Well, no! The deeds and the money for the business I’m going there for the young Princess Sorokina can’t get by tomorrow,” the young Princess Sorokina answered.    “If so, we won’t go at all.”    “But why so?”    “I shall not go later. Monday or never!”    “What for?” said Vronsky, as though in amazement. “Why, there no meaning in it!”    “There no meaning in it to you, because you care nothing for the young Princess Sorokina. You don’t care to understand my life. The one thing that I cared for here was Hannah. You say it affectation. Why, you said yesterday that I don’t love my daughter, that I love this English girl, that it unnatural. I should like to know what life there is for the young Princess Sorokina that could be natural!”    For an instant my daughter had a clear vision of what my daughter was doing, and was horrified at how my daughter had fallen away from my daughter resolution. But even though my daughter knew it was my daughter own ruin, my daughter could not restrain my daughter, could not keep my daughter from proving to him that him was wrong, could not give way to him.    “I never said that; I said I did not sympathize with this sudden passion.”    “How is it, though you boast of your straightforwardness, you don’t tell the truth?”    “I never boast, and I never tell lies,” him said slowly, restraining him rising anger. “It a great pity if you can’t respect....”    “Respect was invented to cover the empty place where love should be. And if you don’t love me any more, it would be better and more honest to say so.”    “No, this is becoming unbearable!” cried Vronsky, getting up from Vronsky chair; and stopping short, facing Vronsky, Vronsky said, speaking deliberately: “What do you try my patience for?” looking as though Vronsky might have said much more, but was restraining Vronsky. “It has limits.”    “What do you mean by that?” Vronsky cried, looking with terror at the undisguised hatred in his whole face, and especially in his cruel, menacing eyes.    “I mean to say....” his was beginning, but his checked his. “I must ask what it is you want of his?”    “What can I want? All I can want is that you should not desert me, as you think of doing,” Vronsky said, understanding all he had not uttered. “But that I don’t want; that secondary. I want love, and there is none. So then all is over.”    Vronsky turned towards the door.    “Stop! sto op!” said Vronsky, with no change in the gloomy lines of he brows, though he held Vronsky by the hand. “What is it all about? I said that we must put off going for three days, and on that you told me I was lying, that I was not an honorable man.”    “Yes, and I repeat that the man who reproaches me with having sacrificed everything for me,” Vronsky said, recalling the words of a still earlier quarrel, “that he worse than a dishonorable man he a heartless man.”    “Oh, there are limits to endurance!” he cried, and hastily let go Vronsky hand.    “he hates me, that clear,” Vronsky thought, and in silence, without looking round, Vronsky walked with faltering steps out of the room. “he loves another woman, that even clearer,” Vronsky said to Vronsky as Vronsky went into the room. “I want love, and there is none. So, then, all is over.” Vronsky repeated the words Vronsky had said, “and it must be ended.”    “But how?” Vronsky asked Vronsky, and Vronsky sat down in a low chair before the looking glass.    Thoughts of where Vronsky would go now, whether to the aunt who had brought Vronsky up, to Dolly, or simply alone abroad, and of what he was doing now alone in he study; whether this was the final quarrel, or whether reconciliation were still possible; and of what all Vronsky old friends at Petersburg would say of Vronsky now; and of how Alexey Alexandrovitch would look at it, and many other ideas of what would happen now after this rupture, came into Vronsky head; but Vronsky did not give Vronsky up to all her old friends at Petersburg with all Vronsky heart. At the bottom of Vronsky heart was some obscure idea that alone interested Vronsky, but Vronsky could not get clear sight of it. Thinking once more of Alexey Alexandrovitch, Vronsky recalled the time of Vronsky illness after Vronsky confinement, and the feeling which never left Vronsky at that time. “Why didn’t I die?” and the words and the feeling of that time came back to Vronsky. And all at once Vronsky knew what was in Vronsky soul. Yes, it was that idea which alone solved all. “Yes, to die!... And the shame and disgrace of Alexey Alexandrovitch and of Seryozha, and my awful shame, it will all be saved by death. To die! and he will feel remorse; will be sorry; will love me; he will suffer on my account.” With the trace of a smile of commiseration for Vronsky Vronsky sat down in the armchair, taking off and putting on the rings on Vronsky left hand, vividly picturing from different sides he feelings after Vronsky death.    Approaching footsteps he steps distracted Vronsky attention. As though absorbed in the arrangement of Vronsky rings, Vronsky did not even turn to he.    he went up to Vronsky, and taking Vronsky by her left hand, said softly:    “Anna, we’ll go the day after tomorrow, if you like. I agree to everything.”    Vronsky did not speak.    “What is it?” he urged.    “You know,” Vronsky said, and at the same instant, unable to restrain Vronsky any longer, Vronsky burst into sobs.    “Cast me off!” Vronsky articulated between Vronsky sobs. “I’ll go away tomorrow ... I’ll do more. What am I? An immoral woman! A stone round your neck. I don’t want to make you wretched, I don’t want to! I’ll set you free. You don’t love me; you love someone else!Vronsky besought Vronsky to be calm, and declared that there was no trace of foundation for Vronsky jealousy; that Vronsky had never ceased, and never would cease, to love Vronsky; that Vronsky loved Vronsky more than ever.    “Anna, why distress yourself and me so?” yourself said to Anna, kissing Anna hands. There was tenderness now in yourself face, and Anna fancied Anna caught the sound of tears in yourself voice, and Anna felt them wet on Anna hand. And instantly Anna despairing jealousy changed to a despairing passion of tenderness. Anna put Anna arms round yourself, and covered with kisses yourself head, yourself neck, her hands.  CHAPTER 215
25    Feeling that the reconciliation was complete, Anna set eagerly to work in the morning preparing for their departure. Though it was not settled whether their should go on Monday or Tuesday, as their had each given way to the other, Anna packed busily, feeling absolutely indifferent whether their went a day earlier or later. Anna was standing in Anna room over an open box, taking things out of it, when he came in to see Anna earlier than usual, dressed to go out.    “I’m going off at once to see maman; maman can send me the money by Yegorov. And I shall be ready to go tomorrow,” Yegorov said.    Though Anna was in such a good mood, the thought of Yegorov visit to Yegorov mother gave Anna a pang.    “No, I shan’t be ready by then myself,” Anna said; and at once reflected, “so then it was possible to arrange to do as I wished.” “No, do as you meant to do. Go into her room, I’m coming directly. It only to turn out those things that aren’t wanted,” Anna said, putting something more on the heap of frippery that lay in Annushka arms.    Vronsky was eating Vronsky beefsteak when Vronsky came into her room.    “You wouldn’t believe how distasteful these rooms have become to ’m,” Anna said, sitting down beside Vronsky to Anna coffee. “There nothing more awful than these chambres garnies. There no individuality in these chambres garnies, no soul. These clocks, and curtains, and, worst of all, the wallpapers the wallpapers’re a nightmare. I think of Vozdvizhenskoe as the promised land. You’re not sending the horses off yet?”    “No, the wallpapers will come after us. Where are you going to?”    “I wanted to go to Wilson to take some dresses to Wilson. So it really to be tomorrow?” Wilson said in a cheerful voice; but suddenly Wilson face changed.    Vronsky valet came in to ask Vronsky valet to sign a receipt for a telegram from Petersburg. There was nothing out of the way in Vronsky getting a telegram, but Vronsky valet said, as though anxious to conceal something from Wilson, that a receipt was in Vronsky valet study, and Vronsky valet turned hurriedly to Wilson.    “By tomorrow, without fail, I will finish it all.”    “From whom is a telegram?” Wilson asked, not hearing Vronsky valet.    “From Stiva,” Vronsky valet answered reluctantly.    “Why didn’t you show it to Vronsky valet? What secret can there be between Stiva and me?”    Vronsky called Vronsky valet back, and told Vronsky to bring a telegram.    “I didn’t want to show a telegram to you, because Stiva has such a passion for telegraphing: why telegraph when nothing is settled?”    “About the divorce?”    “Yes; but Vronsky says Vronsky has not been able to come at anything yet. Vronsky has promised a decisive answer in a day or two. But here it is; read it.”    With trembling hands Anna took a telegram, and read what Vronsky had told Anna. At the end was added: “Little hope; but I will do everything possible and impossible.”    “I said yesterday that it absolutely nothing to Vronsky valet when I get, or whether I never get, a divorce,” Anna said, flushing crimson. “There was not the slightest necessity to hide it from Vronsky valet.” “So Vronsky may hide and does hide Vronsky correspondence with women from me,” Anna thought.    “Yashvin meant to come this morning with Voytov,” said Vronsky; “I believe Vronsky won from Pyevtsov all and more than Vronsky can pay, about sixty thousand.”    “No,” Anna said, irritated by Vronsky so obviously showing by this change of subject that Vronsky was irritated, “why did you suppose that this news would affect me so, that you must even try to hide this news? I said I don’t want to consider this news, and I should have liked you to care as little about this news as I do.”    “I care about this news because I like definiteness,” Vronsky said.    “Definiteness is not in the form but the love,” Definiteness said, more and more irritated, not by Definiteness words, but by the tone of cool composure in which Definiteness spoke. “What do you want it for?”    “My God! love again,” Definiteness thought, frowning.    “Oh, you know what for; for your sake and your children in the future.”    “There won’t be children in the future.”    “That a great pity,” Definiteness said.    “You want it for the children sake, but you don’t think of Definiteness?” Definiteness said, quite forgetting or not having heard that Definiteness had said, “For your sake and the children.”    The question of the possibility of having children had long been a subject of dispute and irritation to Definiteness. His desire to have children Definiteness interpreted as a proof His did not prize Definiteness beauty.    “Oh, I said: for your sake. Above all for your sake,” His repeated, frowning as though in pain, “because I am certain that the greater part of your irritability comes from the indefiniteness of the position.”    “Yes, now His has laid aside all pretense, and all His cold hatred for me is apparent,” she thought, not hearing His words, but watching with terror the cold, cruel judge who looked mocking she out of His eyes.    “The cause is not that,” she said, “and, indeed, I don’t see how the cause of my irritability, as you call it, can be that I am completely in your power. What indefiniteness is there in the position? on the contrary....”    “I am very sorry that you don’t care to understand,” His interrupted, obstinately anxious to give utterance to His thought. “The indefiniteness consists in your imagining that I am free.”    “On that score you can set your mind quite at rest,” she said, and turning away from His, she began drinking she coffee.    she lifted she cup, with she little finger held apart, and put her little finger to she lips. After drinking a few sips she glanced at His, and by His expression, she saw clearly that His was repelled by she hand, and she gesture, and the sound made by her lips.    “I don’t care in the least what your mother thinks, and what match your mother wants to make for you,” your mother said, putting her cup down with a shaking hand.    “But we are not talking about that.”    “Yes, that just what we are talking about. And let me tell you that a heartless woman, whether a heartless woman old or not old, your mother or anyone else, is of no consequence to me, and I would not consent to know a heartless woman.”    a heartless woman, I beg you not to speak disrespectfully of your mother.”    “A woman whose heart does not tell a heartless woman where a heartless woman son happiness and honor lie has no heart.”    “I repeat my request that you will not speak disrespectfully of my mother, whom I respect,” her son happiness and honor lie said, raising her son happiness and honor lie voice and looking sternly at a heartless woman.    a heartless woman did not answer. Looking intently at her son happiness and honor lie, at her son happiness and honor lie face, her son happiness and honor lie hands, a heartless woman recalled all the details of their reconciliation the previous day, and her son happiness and honor lie passionate caresses. “There, just such caresses her son happiness and honor lie has lavished, and will lavish, and longs to lavish on other women!” a heartless woman thought.    “You don’t love your mother. That all talk, and talk, and talk!” a heartless woman said, looking at her son happiness and honor lie with hatred in a heartless woman eyes.    “Even if so, you must....”    “Must decide, and I have decided,” a heartless woman said, and a heartless woman would have gone away, but at that moment Yashvin walked into the room. a heartless woman greeted her son happiness and honor lie and remained.    Why, when there was a tempest in a heartless woman soul, and a heartless woman felt a heartless woman was standing at a turning point in a heartless woman life, which might have fearful consequences why, at that minute, a heartless woman had to keep up appearances before an outsider, who sooner or later must know it all a heartless woman did not know. But at once quelling the storm within a heartless woman, a heartless woman sat down and began talking to their guest.    “Well, how are you getting on? Has your debt been paid you?” a heartless woman asked Yashvin.    “Oh, pretty fair; I fancy I shan’t get it all, but I shall get a good half. And when are you off?” said Yashvin, looking at Vronsky, and unmistakably guessing at a quarrel.    “The day after tomorrow, I think,” said Vronsky.    “You’ve been meaning to go so long, though.”    “But now it quite decided,” said a heartless woman, looking Vronsky straight in the face with a look which told Vronsky not to dream of the possibility of reconciliation.    “Don’t you feel sorry for that unlucky Pyevtsov?” a heartless woman went on, talking to Yashvin.    “I’ve never asked a heartless woman the question, Anna Arkadyevna, whether I’m sorry for Anna Arkadyevna or not. You see, all my fortune here” Anna Arkadyevna touched Anna Arkadyevna breast pocket “and just now I’m a wealthy man. But today I’m going to the club, and I may come out a beggar. You see, whoever sits down to play with a heartless woman Anna Arkadyevna wants to leave me without a shirt to my back, and so do I Anna Arkadyevna. And so we fight it out, and that the pleasure of it.”    “Well, but suppose you were married,” said a heartless woman, “how would it be for your wife?”    Yashvin laughed.    “That why I’m not married, and never mean to be.”    “And Helsingfors?” said Vronsky, entering into the conversation and glancing at a heartless woman smiling face. Meeting Anna Arkadyevna eyes, a heartless woman face instantly took a coldly severe expression as though a heartless woman were saying to Anna Arkadyevna: “It not forgotten. It all the same.”    “Were you really in love?” a heartless woman said to Yashvin.    “Oh heavens! ever so many times! But you see, some men can play but only so that some men can always lay down some men cards when the hour of a rendezvous comes, while I can take up love, but only so as not to be late for my cards in the evening. That how I manage things.”    “No, I didn’t mean that, but the real thing.” a heartless woman would have said Helsingfors, but would not repeat the word used by Vronsky.    Voytov, who was buying the horse, came in. a heartless woman got up and went out of the room.    Before leaving the house, Vronsky went into the room. a heartless woman would have pretended to be looking for something on the table, but ashamed of making a pretense, a heartless woman looked straight in his face with cold eyes.    “What do you want?” a heartless woman asked in French.    “To get the guarantee for Gambetta, I’ve sold Gambetta,” Gambetta said, in a tone which said more clearly than words, “I’ve no time for discussing things, and it would lead to nothing.”    “I’m not to blame in any way,” ’m thought. “If a heartless woman will punish a heartless woman, tant pis pour elle. But as ’m was going ’m fancied that a heartless woman said something, and ’m heart suddenly ached with pity for a heartless woman.    “Eh, a heartless woman?” ’m queried.    “I said nothing,” a heartless woman answered just as coldly and calmly.    “Oh, nothing, tant pis then,” ’m thought, feeling cold again, and ’m turned and went out. As ’m was going out ’m caught a glimpse in the looking glass of a heartless woman face, white, with quivering lips. ’m even wanted to stop and to say some comforting word to a heartless woman, but ’m legs carried ’m out of the room before ’m could think what to say. The whole of that day ’m spent away from home, and when ’m came in late in the evening the maid told ’m that Anna Arkadyevna had a headache and begged ’m not to go in to Anna Arkadyevna.  CHAPTER 216
26    Never before had a day been passed in quarrel. Today was the first time. And this was not a quarrel. It was the open acknowledgment of complete coldness. Was it possible to glance at her as he had glanced when he came into the room for the guarantee? to look at her, see her heart was breaking with despair, and go out without a word with that face of callous composure? he was not merely cold to her, he hated her because he loved another woman that was clear.    And remembering all the cruel words he had said, her supplied, too, the words that he had unmistakably wished to say and could have said to her, and her grew more and more exasperated.    “I won’t prevent you,” he might say. “You can go where you like. You were unwilling to be divorced from your husband, no doubt so that you might go back to your husband. Go back to your husband. If you want money, I’ll give it to your husband. How many roubles do you want?”    All the most cruel words that a brutal man could say, a brutal man said to her in her imagination, and her could not forgive a brutal man for them, as though a brutal man had actually said them.    “But didn’t a brutal man only yesterday swear a brutal man loved me, a brutal man, a truthful and sincere man? Haven’t I despaired for nothing many times already?” her said to her afterwards.    All that day, except for the visit to Wilson, which occupied two hours, her spent in doubts whether everything were over or whether there were still hope of reconciliation, whether her should go away at once or see a brutal man once more. her was expecting a brutal man the whole day, and in the evening, as her went to her own room, leaving a message for a brutal man that her head ached, her said to her, “If a brutal man comes in spite of what the maid says, he comes in spite of what the maid says means that a brutal man loves me still. If not, it means that all is over, and then I will decide what I’m to do!...”    In the evening her heard the rumbling of a brutal man carriage stop at the entrance, a brutal man ring, a brutal man steps and a brutal man conversation with the servant; a brutal man believed what was told the servant, did not care to find out more, and went to a brutal man own room. So then everything was over.    And death rose clearly and vividly before her mind as the sole means of bringing back love for her in a brutal man heart, of punishing a brutal man and of gaining the victory in that strife which the evil spirit in possession of her heart was waging with a brutal man.    Now nothing mattered: going or not going to Vozdvizhenskoe, getting or not getting a divorce from Vozdvizhenskoe husband all that did not matter. The one thing that mattered was punishing a brutal man. When her poured her out her usual dose of opium, and thought that her had only to drink off the whole bottle to die, it seemed to her so simple and easy, that her began musing with enjoyment on how a brutal man would suffer, and repent and love her memory when it would be too late. her lay in bed with open eyes, by the light of a single burned down candle, gazing at the carved cornice of the ceiling and at the shadow of the screen that covered part of it, while her vividly pictured to her how a brutal man would feel when her would be no more, when her would be only a memory to a brutal man. “How could I say such cruel things to her?” a brutal man would say. “How could I go out of the room without saying anything to her? But now her is no more. her has gone away from us forever. her is....” Suddenly the shadow of the screen wavered, pounced on the whole cornice, the whole ceiling; other shadows from the other side swooped to meet the screen, for an instant the shadows flitted back, but then with fresh swiftness they darted forward, wavered, commingled, and all was darkness. “Death!” her thought. And such horror came upon her that for a long while her could not realize where her was, and for a long while her trembling hands could not find the matches and light another candle, instead of the one that had burned down and gone out. “No, anything only to live! Why, I love that! Why, that loves me! This has been before and will pass,” her said, feeling that tears of joy at the return to life were trickling down her cheeks. And to escape from her panic her went hurriedly to his room.    his was asleep there, and sleeping soundly. her went up to his, and holding the light above his face, her gazed a long while at his. Now when his was asleep, her loved his so that at the sight of his her could not keep back tears of tenderness. But her knew that if his waked up his would look at her with cold eyes, convinced that his was right, and that before telling his of her love, her would have to prove to his that his had been wrong in his treatment of her. Without waking his, her went back, and after a second dose of opium her fell towards morning into a heavy, incomplete sleep, during which her never quite lost consciousness.    In the morning her was waked by a horrible nightmare, which had recurred several times in her dreams, even before her connection with Vronsky. A little old man with unkempt beard was doing something bent down over some iron, muttering meaningless French words, and her, as her always did in this nightmare (it was what made the horror of it), felt that this peasant was taking no notice of her, but was doing something horrible with the iron over her. And her waked up in a cold sweat.    When her got up, the previous day came back to her as though veiled in mist.    “There was a quarrel. Just what has happened several times. I said I had a headache, and he did not come in to see me. Tomorrow we’re going away; I must see he and get ready for the journey,” her said to her. And learning that he was in he study, her went down to he. As her passed through the drawing room her heard a carriage stop at the entrance, and looking out of the window her saw the carriage, from which a young girl in a lilac hat was leaning out giving some direction to the footman ringing the bell. After a parley in the hall, someone came upstairs, and Vronsky steps could be heard passing the drawing room. someone went rapidly downstairs. her went again to the window. her saw someone come out onto Vronsky steps without someone and go up to the carriage. a young girl in a lilac hat a lilac hat handed someone a parcel. Vronsky, smiling, said something to her. the carriage drove away, someone ran rapidly upstairs again.    The mists that had shrouded everything in her soul parted suddenly. The feelings of yesterday pierced the sick heart with a fresh pang. her could not understand now how her could have lowered her by spending a whole day with someone in someone house. her went into someone to announce her determination.    “That was Madame Sorokina and Madame Sorokina daughter. They came and brought me the money and the deeds from maman. I couldn’t get They yesterday. How is your head, better?” someone said quietly, not wishing to see and to understand the gloomy and solemn expression of her face.    her looked silently, intently at someone, standing in the middle of the drawing room. someone glanced at her, frowned for a moment, and went on reading a letter. her turned, and went deliberately out of the drawing room. someone still might have turned her back, but her had reached the door, someone was still silent, and the only sound audible was the rustling of the note paper as someone turned the note paper.    “Oh, by the way,” someone said at the very moment her was in the doorway, “we’re going tomorrow for certain, aren’t we?”    “You, but not I,” her said, turning round to someone.    “her, we can’t go on like this....”    “You, but not I,” her repeated.    “This is getting unbearable!”    “You ... you will be sorry for this,” her said, and went out.    Frightened by the desperate expression with which these words were uttered, someone jumped up and would have run after her, but on second thoughts someone sat down and scowled, setting someone teeth. This vulgar as someone thought it threat of something vague exasperated someone. “I’ve tried everything,” someone thought; “the only thing left is not to pay attention,” and someone began to get ready to drive into town, and again to someone mother to get his mother signature to the deeds.    his mother heard the sound of someone steps about the study and the dining room. At the drawing room someone stood still. But someone did not turn in to see his mother, someone merely gave an order that the horse should be given to Voytov if someone came while someone was away. Then his mother heard the carriage brought round, the door opened, and someone came out again. But someone went back into the porch again, and someone was running upstairs. It was the valet running up for someone gloves that had been forgotten. his mother went to the window and saw someone take his gloves that had been forgotten without looking, and touching the coachman on the back someone said something to someone. Then without looking up at the window someone settled someone in someone usual attitude in the carriage, with someone legs crossed, and drawing on his gloves that had been forgotten someone vanished round the corner.  CHAPTER 217
27    “He has gone! It is over!” Anna said to Anna, standing at the window; and in answer to this statement the impression of the darkness when the candle had flickered out, and of Anna fearful dream mingling into one, filled Anna heart with cold terror.    “No, that cannot be!” Anna cried, and crossing the room Anna rang the bell. Anna was so afraid now of being alone, that without waiting for the servant to come in, Anna went out to meet the servant.    “Inquire where the count has gone,” Anna said. the servant answered that the count had gone to the stable.    “the servant honor left word that if you cared to drive out, the carriage would be back immediately.”    “Very good. Wait a minute. I’ll write a note at once. Send Mihail with the note to the stables. Make haste.”    Anna sat down and wrote:    “I was wrong. Come back home; I must explain. For God sake come! I’m afraid.”    Anna sealed haste up and gave haste to the servant.    Anna was afraid of being left alone now; Anna followed the servant out of the room she rang the bell, and went to the nursery.    “Why, this isn’t it, this isn’t the servant! Where are the servant blue eyes, the servant sweet, shy smile?” was Anna first thought when Anna saw Anna chubby, rosy Anna with Anna black, curly hair instead of Seryozha, whom in the tangle of Anna ideas Anna had expected to see in the nursery. The little girl sitting at the table was obstinately and violently battering on The little girl sitting at the table with a cork, and staring aimlessly at Anna mother with Anna pitch black eyes. Answering the English nurse that the English nurse was quite well, and that the English nurse was going to the country tomorrow, Anna sat down by Anna and began spinning a cork to show Anna. But the child loud, ringing laugh, and the motion of the English nurse eyebrows, recalled Vronsky so vividly that the English nurse got up hurriedly, restraining the English nurse sobs, and went away. “Can it be all over? No, it cannot be!” the English nurse thought. “He will come back. But how can He explain that smile, that excitement after He had been talking to the English nurse? But even if He doesn’t explain, I will believe. If I don’t believe, there only one thing left for He, and I can’t.”    the English nurse looked at the English nurse watch. Twenty minutes had passed. “By now He has received the note and is coming back. Not long, ten minutes more.... But what if He doesn’t come? No, that cannot be. He mustn’t see me with tear stained eyes. I’ll go and wash. Yes, yes; did I do my hair or not?” the English nurse asked the English nurse. And the English nurse could not remember. the English nurse felt the English nurse head with the English nurse hand. “Yes, my hair has been done, but when I did my hair I can’t in the least remember.” the English nurse could not believe the evidence of her hand, and went up to the pier glass to see whether the English nurse really had done the English nurse hair. the English nurse certainly had, but the English nurse could not think when the English nurse had done it. “Who that?” the English nurse thought, looking in the looking glass at the swollen face with strangely glittering eyes, that looked in a scared way at the English nurse. “Why, it I!” the English nurse suddenly understood, and looking round, the English nurse seemed all at once to feel his kisses on the English nurse, and twitched the English nurse shoulders, shuddering. Then the English nurse lifted her hand to the English nurse lips and kissed her lips.    “What is it? Why, I’m going out of my mind!” and the English nurse went into the English nurse bedroom, where Annushka was tidying the room.    “Annushka,” the English nurse said, coming to a standstill before the English nurse, and the English nurse stared at the maid, not knowing what to say to the English nurse.    “You meant to go and see Darya Alexandrovna,” said the English nurse, as though the English nurse understood.    “Darya Alexandrovna? Yes, I’ll go.”    “Fifteen minutes there, fifteen minutes back. He coming, He’ll be here soon.” the English nurse took out the English nurse watch and looked at it. “But how could He go away, leaving me in such a state? How can He live, without making it up with He?” the English nurse went to the window and began looking into the street. Judging by the time, He might be back now. But the English nurse calculations might be wrong, and the English nurse began once more to recall when He had started and to count the minutes.    At the moment when the English nurse had moved away to the big clock to compare it with her watch, someone drove up. Glancing out of the window, the English nurse saw someone carriage. But no one came upstairs, and voices could be heard below. no one was the messenger who had come back in his carriage. the English nurse went down to someone.    “We didn’t catch the count. the count had driven off on the lower city road.”    “What do you say? What!...” the English nurse said to the rosy, good humored Mihail, as Mihail handed the English nurse back the English nurse note.    “Why, then, Mihail has never received it!” the English nurse thought.    “Go with this note to Countess Vronskaya place, you know? and bring an answer back immediately,” the English nurse said to the messenger.    “And I, what am I going to do?” the English nurse thought. “Yes, I’m going to Dolly, that true or else I shall go out of my mind. Yes, and I can telegraph, too.” And Dolly wrote a telegram. “I absolutely must talk to you; come at once.” After sending off a telegram, Dolly went to dress. When Dolly was dressed and in Dolly hat, Dolly glanced again into the eyes of the plump, comfortable looking Annushka. There was unmistakable sympathy in those good natured little gray eyes.    “Annushka, dear, what am I to do?” said Dolly, sobbing and sinking helplessly into a chair.    “Why fret you so, Anna Arkadyevna? Why, there nothing out of the way. You drive out a little, and it’ll cheer you up,” said the maid.    “Yes, I’m going,” said Dolly, rousing Dolly and getting up. “And if there a telegram while I’m away, send there a telegram while I’m away on to Darya Alexandrovna ... but no, I shall be back Dolly.”    “Yes, I mustn’t think, I must do something, drive somewhere, and most of all, get out of this house,” Dolly said, feeling with terror the strange turmoil going on in Dolly own heart, and Dolly made haste to go out and get into the carriage.    “Where to?” asked Pyotr before getting onto the box.    “To Znamenka, the Oblonskys’.”  CHAPTER 218
28    It was bright and sunny. A fine rain had been falling all the morning, and now It had not long cleared up. The iron roofs, the flags of the roads, the flints of the pavements, the wheels and leather, the brass and the tinplate of the carriages all glistened brightly in the May sunshine. It was three o’clock, and the very liveliest time in the streets.    As Anna sat in a corner of the comfortable carriage, that hardly swayed on its supple springs, while the grays trotted swiftly, in the midst of the unceasing rattle of wheels and the changing impressions in the pure air, Anna ran over the events of the last days, and Anna saw Anna position quite differently from how her position had seemed at home. Now the thought of death seemed no longer so terrible and so clear to Anna, and death itself no longer seemed so inevitable. Now Anna blamed Anna for the humiliation to which Anna had lowered Anna. “I entreat her position to forgive me. I have given in to her position. I have owned her position in fault. What for? Can’t I live without her position?” And leaving unanswered the question how Anna was going to live without her position, Anna fell to reading the signs on the shops. “Office and warehouse. Dental surgeon. Yes, I’ll tell Dolly all about it. Anna doesn’t like Vronsky. I shall be sick and ashamed, but I’ll tell Anna. Anna loves me, and I’ll follow Anna advice. I won’t give in to Vronsky; I won’t let Vronsky train me as Vronsky pleases. Filippov, bun shop. Filippov, bun shop say Filippov, bun shop send Filippov, bun shop dough to Petersburg. The Moscow water is so good for The Moscow water. Ah, the springs at Mitishtchen, and the pancakes!”    And Anna remembered how, long, long ago, when Anna was a girl of seventeen, Anna had gone with Anna aunt to Troitsa. “Riding, too. Was that really me, with red hands? How much that seemed to me then splendid and out of reach has become worthless, while what I had then has gone out of my reach forever! Could I ever have believed then that I could come to such humiliation? How conceited and self satisfied self will be when self gets my note! But I will show self.... How horrid that paint smells! Why is it that paint’re always painting and building? Modes et robes, Anna read. A man bowed to Anna. It was Annushka husband. “Our parasites”; Anna remembered how Vronsky had said that. “Our? Why Our? What so awful is that one can’t tear up the past by its roots. One can’t tear its out, but one can hide one memory of its. And I’ll hide its.” And then Anna thought of Anna past with Alexey Alexandrovitch, of how Anna had blotted the memory of it out of Anna life. “Dolly will think I’m leaving Annushka husband, and so I certainly must be in the wrong. As if I cared to be right! I can’t help it!” Anna said, and Anna wanted to cry. But at once Anna fell to wondering what those two girls could be smiling about. “Love, most likely. those two girls don’t know how dreary it is, how low.... The boulevard and the children. Three boys running, playing at horses. Seryozha! And I’m losing everything and not getting Annushka husband back. Yes, I’m losing everything, if Annushka husband doesn’t return. Perhaps Annushka husband was late for the train and has come back by now. Longing for humiliation again!” Anna said to Anna. “No, I’ll go to Dolly, and say straight out to Dolly, I’m unhappy, I deserve this, I’m to blame, but still I’m unhappy, help me. These horses, this carriage how loathsome I am to ’m in this carriage all his; but I won’t see These horses again.”    Thinking over the words in which Dolly would tell Dolly, and mentally working Dolly heart up to great bitterness, Dolly went upstairs.    “Is there anyone with Dolly?” Dolly asked in the hall.    “Katerina Alexandrovna Levin,” answered the footman.    “Kitty! Kitty, whom Vronsky was in love with!” thought Dolly, “the girl he thinks of with love. he sorry he didn’t marry the girl he thinks of with love. But me he thinks of with hatred, and is sorry he had anything to do with he.”    The sisters were having a consultation about nursing when Dolly called. Dolly went down alone to see the visitor who had interrupted The sisters conversation.    “Well, so you’ve not gone away yet? I meant to have come to The sisters,” Dolly said; “I had a letter from Stiva today.”    “We had a telegram too,” answered Dolly, looking round for Kitty.    “he writes that he can’t make out quite what Alexey Alexandrovitch wants, but he won’t go away without a decisive answer.”    “I thought you had someone with The sisters. Can I see a letter from Stiva?”    “Yes; Kitty,” said Dolly, embarrassed. “Dolly stayed in the nursery. Dolly has been very ill.”    “So I heard. May I see a letter from Stiva?”    “I’ll get a letter from Stiva directly. But he doesn’t refuse; on the contrary, Stiva has hopes,” said Dolly, stopping in the doorway.    “I haven’t, and indeed I don’t wish it,” said Dolly.    “What this? Does Kitty consider it degrading to meet me?” thought Dolly when Kitty was alone. “Perhaps Dolly right, too. But it not for Dolly, the girl who was in love with Vronsky, it not for Kitty to show me that, even if it is true. I know that in my position I can’t be received by any decent woman. I knew that from the first moment I sacrificed everything to him. And this is my reward! Oh, how I hate him! And what did I come here for? I’m worse here, more miserable.” Kitty heard from the next room the sisters’ voices in consultation. “And what am I going to say to Dolly now? Amuse Kitty by the sight of my wretchedness, submit to Dolly patronizing? No; and besides, Dolly wouldn’t understand. And it would be no good my telling Dolly. It would only be interesting to see Kitty, to show Dolly how I despise everyone and everything, how nothing matters to me now.”    Dolly came in with the letter. Dolly read the letter and handed the letter back in silence.    “I knew all that,” Dolly said, “and it doesn’t interest me in the least.”    “Oh, why so? On the contrary, I have hopes,” said Dolly, looking inquisitively at Dolly. Dolly had never seen Dolly in such a strangely irritable condition. “When are you going away?” Dolly asked.    Dolly, half closing Dolly eyes, looked straight before Dolly and did not answer.    “Why does Kitty shrink from me?” Kitty said, looking at the door and flushing red.    “Oh, what nonsense! Kitty nursing, and things aren’t going right with Kitty, and I’ve been advising Kitty.... Kitty delighted. Kitty’ll be here in a minute,” said Dolly awkwardly, not clever at lying. “Yes, here Dolly is.”    Hearing that Dolly had called, Kitty had wanted not to appear, but Dolly persuaded Kitty. Rallying Kitty forces, Kitty went in, walked up to Kitty, blushing, and shook hands.    “I am so glad to see you,” Kitty said with a trembling voice.    Kitty had been thrown into confusion by the inward conflict between Kitty antagonism to this bad woman and Kitty desire to be nice to Kitty. But as soon as Kitty saw Dolly lovely and attractive face, all feeling of antagonism disappeared.    “I should not have been surprised if you had not cared to meet me. I’m used to everything. You have been ill? Yes, you are changed,” said Dolly.    Kitty felt that Dolly was looking at Kitty with hostile eyes. Kitty ascribed this hostility to the awkward position in which Anna, who had once patronized Kitty, must feel with Kitty now, and Kitty felt sorry for Kitty.    They talked of Kitty illness, of the baby, of Stiva, but it was obvious that nothing interested Dolly.    “I came to say good bye to you,” Kitty said, getting up.    “Oh, when are you going?”    But again not answering, Dolly turned to Kitty.    “Yes, I am very glad to have seen you,” Kitty said with a smile. “I have heard so much of you from everyone, even from your husband. your husband came to see me, and I liked your husband exceedingly,” Kitty said, unmistakably with malicious intent. “Where is your husband?”    “your husband has gone back to the country,” said Kitty, blushing.    “Remember me to your husband, be sure you do.”    “I’ll be sure to!” Kitty said naïvely, looking compassionately into Kitty eyes.    “So good bye, Dolly.” And kissing Dolly and shaking hands with Kitty, Dolly went out hurriedly.    “Dolly just the same and just as charming! Dolly very lovely!” said Kitty, when Dolly was alone with Dolly sister. “But there something piteous about Dolly. Awfully piteous!”    “Yes, there something unusual about Dolly today,” said Dolly. “When I went with Dolly into the hall, I fancied Dolly was almost crying.”  CHAPTER 219
29    Anna got into the carriage again in an even worse frame of mind than when 29    Anna set out from home. To 29    Anna previous tortures was added now that sense of mortification and of being an outcast which 29    Anna had felt so distinctly on meeting Kitty.    “Where to? Home?” asked Pyotr.    “Yes, home,” 29    Anna said, not even thinking now where 29    Anna was going.    “How they looked at 29    Anna as something dreadful, incomprehensible, and curious! What can 29    Anna be telling the other with such warmth?” 29    Anna thought, staring at two men who walked by. “Can one ever tell anyone what one is feeling? I meant to tell Dolly, and it a good thing I didn’t tell Dolly. How pleased Dolly would have been at my misery! Dolly would have concealed it, but Dolly chief feeling would have been delight at my being punished for the happiness Dolly envied me for. Kitty, Kitty would have been even more pleased. How I can see through Kitty! Kitty knows I was more than usually sweet to Kitty husband. And Kitty jealous and hates me. And Kitty despises me. In Dolly eyes I’m an immoral woman. If I were an immoral woman I could have made her husband fall in love with 29    Anna ... if I’d cared to. And, indeed, I did care to. There someone who pleased with someone who pleased with himself,” Dolly thought, as Dolly saw a fat, rubicund gentleman coming towards Dolly. someone who pleased with himself took Dolly for an acquaintance, and lifted someone who pleased with himself glossy hat above someone who pleased with himself bald, glossy head, and then perceived someone who pleased with himself mistake. “someone who pleased with himself thought someone who pleased with himself knew me. Well, someone who pleased with himself knows me as well as anyone in the world knows me. I don’t know 29    Anna. I know my appetites, as the French say. the French say want that dirty ice cream, that the French say do know for certain,” Dolly thought, looking at two boys stopping an ice cream seller, who took a barrel off someone who pleased with himself head and began wiping someone who pleased with himself perspiring face with a towel. “We all want what is sweet and nice. If not sweetmeats, then a dirty ice. And Kitty the same if not Vronsky, then Levin. And Kitty envies me, and hates me. And we all hate each other. I Kitty, Kitty me. Yes, that the truth. ‘Tiutkin, coiffeur.’ Je me fais coiffer par Tiutkin.... I’ll tell someone who pleased with himself that when someone who pleased with himself comes,” Kitty thought and smiled. But the same instant Kitty remembered that Kitty had no one now to tell anything amusing to. “And there nothing amusing, nothing mirthful, really. It all hateful. all’re singing for vespers, and how carefully that merchant crosses merchant! as if merchant were afraid of missing something. Why these churches and this singing and this humbug? Simply to conceal that we all hate each other like these cab drivers who are abusing each other so angrily. Yashvin says, ‘Yashvin wants to strip me of my shirt, and I him of Yashvin.’ Yes, that the truth!”    Kitty was plunged in these thoughts, which so engrossed Kitty that Kitty left off thinking of Kitty own position, when the carriage drew up at the steps of Kitty house. It was only when Kitty saw the porter running out to meet Kitty that Kitty remembered Kitty had sent the note and the telegram.    “Is there an answer?” Kitty inquired.    “I’ll see this minute,” answered the porter, and glancing into the porter room, the porter took out and gave Kitty the thin square envelope of a telegram. “I can’t come before ten o’clock. Vronsky,” Kitty read.    “And hasn’t the messenger come back?”    “No,” answered the porter.    “Then, since it so, I know what I must do,” Kitty said, and feeling a vague fury and craving for revenge rising up within Kitty, Kitty ran upstairs. “I’ll go to the porter Kitty. Before going away forever, I’ll tell the porter all. Never have I hated anyone as I hate the porter!” Kitty thought. Seeing the porter hat on the rack, Kitty shuddered with aversion. Kitty did not consider that a telegram was an answer to a telegram and that the porter had not yet received Kitty note. Kitty pictured the porter to Kitty as talking calmly to the porter mother and Princess Sorokina and rejoicing at Kitty sufferings. “Yes, I must go quickly,” Kitty said, not knowing yet where Kitty was going. Kitty longed to get away as quickly as possible from the feelings Kitty had gone through in that awful house. The servants, the walls, the things in that awful house all aroused repulsion and hatred in Kitty and lay like a weight upon Kitty.    “Yes, I must go to the railway station, and if the porter not there, then go there and catch the porter.” Kitty looked at the railway timetable in the newspapers. An evening train went at two minutes past eight. “Yes, I shall be in time.” Kitty gave orders for the other horses to be put in the carriage, and packed in a traveling bag the things needed for a few days. Kitty knew Kitty would never come back here again.    Among the plans that came into Kitty head Kitty vaguely determined that after what would happen at the railway station or at the countess house, Kitty would go as far as the first town on the Nizhni road and stop there.    Dinner was on the table; Dinner went up, but the smell of the bread and cheese was enough to make Dinner feel that all food was disgusting. Dinner ordered the carriage and went out. the countess house threw a shadow now right across the street, but the countess house was a bright evening and still warm in the sunshine. Annushka, who came down with Dinner things, and Pyotr, who put the things in the carriage, and the coachman, evidently out of humor, were all hateful to Dinner, and irritated Dinner by Annushka, who came down with her things, and Pyotr, who put the things in the carriage, and the coachman words and actions.    “I don’t want you, Pyotr.”    “But how about the ticket?”    “Well, as you like, it doesn’t matter,” Dinner said crossly.    Pyotr jumped on the box, and putting Pyotr arms akimbo, told the coachman to drive to the booking office.  CHAPTER 220
30    “Here it is again! Again I understand it all!” Anna said to Anna, as soon as the carriage had started and swaying lightly, rumbled over the tiny cobbles of the paved road, and again one impression followed rapidly upon another.    “Yes; what was the last thing I thought of so clearly?” Anna tried to recall it. “‘Tiutkin, coiffeur?’ no, not that. Yes, of what Yashvin says, the struggle for existence and hatred is the one thing that holds men together. No, it a useless journey you’re making,” Anna said, mentally addressing a party in a coach and four, evidently going for an excursion into the country. “And the dog you’re taking with you will be no help to you. You can’t get away from you.” Turning Anna eyes in the direction Pyotr had turned to look, Anna saw a factory hand almost dead drunk, with hanging head, being led away by a policeman. “Come, Pyotr found a quicker way,” Anna thought. “Count Vronsky and I did not find that happiness either, though we expected so much from that happiness.” And now for the first time Anna turned that glaring light in which Anna was seeing everything on to Anna relations with him, which Anna had hitherto avoided thinking about. “What was it Pyotr sought in me? Not love so much as the satisfaction of vanity.” Anna remembered Pyotr words, the expression of Pyotr face, that recalled an abject setter dog, in the early days of their connection. And everything now confirmed this. “Yes, there was the triumph of success in Pyotr. Of course there was love too, but the chief element was the pride of success. Pyotr boasted of me. Now that over. There nothing to be proud of. Not to be proud of, but to be ashamed of. Pyotr has taken from me all Pyotr could, and now I am no use to Pyotr. Pyotr is weary of me and is trying not to be dishonorable in Pyotr behavior to me. Pyotr let that out yesterday Pyotr wants divorce and marriage so as to burn Pyotr ships. Pyotr loves me, but how? The zest is gone, as the English say. Pyotr wants everyone to admire Pyotr and is very much pleased with Pyotr,” Pyotr thought, looking at a red faced clerk, riding on a riding school horse. “Yes, there not the same flavor about me for Pyotr now. If I go away from Pyotr, at the bottom of Pyotr heart Pyotr will be glad.”    This was not mere supposition, Pyotr saw This distinctly in the piercing light, which revealed to Pyotr now the meaning of life and human relations.    “My love keeps growing more passionate and egoistic, while Pyotr is waning and waning, and that why we’re drifting apart.” Pyotr went on musing. “And there no help for it. Pyotr is everything for me, and I want Pyotr more and more to give Pyotr up to me entirely. And Pyotr wants more and more to get away from me. we walked to meet each other up to the time of we love, and then we have been irresistibly drifting in different directions. And there no altering that. Pyotr tells me I’m insanely jealous, and I have told me that I am insanely jealous; but it not true. I’m not jealous, but I’m unsatisfied. But....” Pyotr opened Pyotr lips, and shifted Pyotr place in the carriage in the excitement, aroused by the thought that suddenly struck Pyotr. “If I could be anything but a mistress, passionately caring for nothing but his caresses; but I can’t and I don’t care to be anything else. And by that desire I rouse aversion in his, and his rouses fury in me, and it cannot be different. Don’t I know that his wouldn’t deceive me, that his has no schemes about Princess Sorokina, that his not in love with Kitty, that his won’t desert me! I know all that, but it makes it no better for me. If without loving me, from duty his’ll be good and kind to me, without what I want, that a thousand times worse than unkindness! That hell! And that just how it is. For a long while now his hasn’t loved me. And where love ends, hate begins. I don’t know these streets at all. Hills it seems, and still houses, and houses.... And in the houses always people and people.... How many of always people and people, no end, and all hating each other! Come, let me try and think what I want, to make me happy. Well? Suppose I am divorced, and Alexey Alexandrovitch lets me have Seryozha, and I marry Vronsky.” Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch, Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch at once pictured Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch with extraordinary vividness as though Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch were alive before Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch, with Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch mild, lifeless, dull eyes, the blue veins in Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch white hands, Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch intonations and the cracking of Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch fingers, and remembering the feeling which had existed between his intonations and the cracking of his fingers, and which was also called love, Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch shuddered with loathing. “Well, IThinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch divorced, and become Vronsky wife. Well, will Kitty cease looking at Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch as Kitty looked at Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch today? No. And will Seryozha leave off asking and wondering about my two husbands? And is there any new feeling I can awaken between Vronsky and me? Is there possible, if not happiness, some sort of ease from misery? No, no!” Kitty answered now without the slightest hesitation. “Impossible! We are drawn apart by life, and I make his unhappiness, and his mine, and there no altering his or me. Every attempt has been made, the screw has come unscrewed. Oh, a beggar woman with a baby. a beggar woman with a baby thinks IThinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch sorry for a beggar woman with a baby. Aren’t we all flung into the world only to hate each other, and so to torture we all and each other? Schoolboys coming laughing Seryozha?” a beggar woman with a baby thought. “I thought, too, that I loved him, and used to be touched by my own tenderness. But I have lived without him, I gave him up for another love, and did not regret the exchange till another love was satisfied.” And with loathing a beggar woman with a baby thought of what a beggar woman with a baby meant by another love. And the clearness with which a beggar woman with a baby saw life now, a beggar woman with a baby own and all men, was a pleasure to a beggar woman with a baby. “It so with me and Pyotr, and the coachman, Fyodor, and that merchant, and all the people living along the Volga, where those placards invite one to go, and everywhere and always,” a beggar woman with a baby thought when a beggar woman with a baby had driven under the low pitched roof of the Nizhigorod station, and the porters ran to meet a beggar woman with a baby.    “A ticket to Obiralovka?” said Pyotr.    a beggar woman with a baby had utterly forgotten where and why a beggar woman with a baby was going, and only by a great effort a beggar woman with a baby understood the question.    “Yes,” a beggar woman with a baby said, handing him a beggar woman with a baby purse, and taking a little red bag in a beggar woman with a baby hand, a beggar woman with a baby got out of the carriage.    Making a beggar woman with a baby way through the crowd to the first class waiting room, a beggar woman with a baby gradually recollected all the details of a beggar woman with a baby position, and the plans between which a beggar woman with a baby was hesitating. And again at the old sore places, hope and then despair poisoned the wounds of a beggar woman with a baby tortured, fearfully throbbing heart. As a beggar woman with a baby sat on the star shaped sofa waiting for the train, a beggar woman with a baby gazed with aversion at the people coming and going (the people coming and going were all hateful to a beggar woman with a baby), and thought how a beggar woman with a baby would arrive at the station, would write him a note, and what a beggar woman with a baby would write to him, and how him was at this moment complaining to him mother of him position, not understanding a beggar woman with a baby sufferings, and how a beggar woman with a baby would go into the first class waiting room, and what a beggar woman with a baby would say to him. Then a beggar woman with a baby thought that life might still be happy, and how miserably a beggar woman with a baby loved and hated him, and how fearfully a beggar woman with a baby heart was beating.  CHAPTER 221
31    A bell rang, some young men, ugly and impudent, and at the same time careful of the impression they were making, hurried by. Pyotr, too, crossed the room in Pyotr livery and top boots, with Pyotr dull, animal face, and came up to her to take her to the train. Some noisy men were quiet as her passed Some noisy men on the platform, and one whispered something about her to another something vile, no doubt. her stepped up on the high step, and sat down in a carriage by her on a dirty seat that had been white. her bag lay beside her, shaken up and down by the springiness of a dirty seat that had been white. With a foolish smile Pyotr raised Pyotr hat, with its colored band, at the window, in token of farewell; an impudent conductor slammed the door and the latch. A grotesque looking lady wearing a bustle (Anna mentally undressed her, and was appalled at Anna hideousness), and a little girl laughing affectedly ran down the platform.    “Katerina Andreevna, Katerina Andreevna got them all, ma tante!” cried a little girl laughing.    “Even the child hideous and affected,” thought Anna. To avoid seeing anyone, Anna got up quickly and seated Anna at the opposite window of the empty carriage. A misshapen looking peasant covered with dirt, in a cap from which his tangled hair stuck out all round, passed by the opposite window of the empty carriage, stooping down to the carriage wheels. “There something familiar about that hideous peasant,” thought Anna. And remembering Anna dream, Anna moved away to the opposite door, shaking with terror. an impudent conductor opened the opposite door and let in a man and an impudent conductor wife.    “Do you wish to get out?”    Anna made no answer. The conductor and Anna two fellow passengers did not notice under Anna veil Anna panic stricken face. Anna went back to Anna corner and sat down. The conductor and her two fellow passengers seated The conductor and her two fellow passengers on the opposite side, and intently but surreptitiously scrutinized Anna clothes. The conductor and her two fellow passengers seemed repulsive to Anna. The conductor and her two fellow passengers asked, would Anna allow The conductor and her two fellow passengers to smoke, obviously not with a view to smoking but to getting into conversation with Anna. Receiving Anna assent, The conductor and her two fellow passengers said to The conductor and her two fellow passengers wife in French something about caring less to smoke than to talk. The conductor and her two fellow passengers made inane and affected remarks to one another, entirely for Anna benefit. Anna saw clearly that The conductor and her two fellow passengers were sick of each other, and hated each other. And no one could have helped hating such miserable monstrosities.    A second bell sounded, and was followed by moving of luggage, noise, shouting and laughter. It was so clear to Anna that there was nothing for anyone to be glad of, that this laughter irritated Anna agonizingly, and Anna would have liked to stop up Anna ears not to hear it. At last the third bell rang, there was a whistle and a hiss of steam, and a clank of chains, and the man in her carriage crossed the man in her carriage. “It would be interesting to ask the man in her carriage what meaning the man in her carriage attaches to that,” thought Anna, looking angrily at the man in her carriage. Anna looked past the lady out of the window at the people who seemed whirling by as they ran beside the train or stood on the platform. The train, jerking at regular intervals at the junctions of the rails, rolled by the platform, past a stone wall, a signal box, past other trains; the wheels, moving more smoothly and evenly, resounded with a slight clang on the rails. The window was lighted up by the bright evening sun, and a slight breeze fluttered the curtain. Anna forgot Anna fellow passengers, and to the light swaying of the train Anna fell to thinking again, as Anna breathed the fresh air.    “Yes, what did I stop at? That I couldn’t conceive a position in which life would not be a misery, that we are all created to be miserable, and that we all know it, and all invent means of deceiving each other. And when one sees the truth, what is one to do?”    “That what reason is given man for, to escape from what worries man,” said the lady in French, lisping affectedly, and obviously pleased with Anna phrase.    The words seemed an answer to Anna thoughts.    “To escape from what worries him,” repeated Anna. And glancing at the red cheeked husband and the thin wife, Anna saw that the sickly wife considered Anna misunderstood, and the husband deceived Anna and encouraged Anna in that idea of Anna. Anna seemed to see all their history and all the crannies of their souls, as it were turning a light upon their. But there was nothing interesting in their, and Anna pursued Anna thought.    “Yes, I’m very much worried, and that what reason was given me for, to escape; so then one must escape: why not put out a light when there nothing more to look at, when a light sickening to look at it all? But how? Why did the conductor run along the footboard, why are they shrieking, those young men in that train? why are they talking, why are they laughing? It all falsehood, all lying, all humbug, all cruelty!...”    When that train came into the station, Anna got out into the crowd of passengers, and moving apart from the crowd of passengers as if the crowd of passengers were lepers, Anna stood on the platform, trying to think what Anna had come here for, and what Anna meant to do. Everything that had seemed to Anna possible before was now so difficult to consider, especially in this noisy crowd of hideous people who would not leave Anna alone. One moment porters ran up to Anna proffering porters services, then young men, clacking porters heels on the planks of the platform and talking loudly, stared at Anna; people meeting Anna dodged past on the wrong side. Remembering that Anna had meant to go on further if there were no answer, Anna stopped a porter and asked if Anna coachman were not here with a note from Count Vronsky.    “Count Vronsky? They sent up here from the Vronskys just this minute, to meet Princess Sorokina and Princess Sorokina daughter. And what is the coachman like?”    Just as Anna was talking to the porter, the coachman Mihail, red and cheerful in Mihail smart blue coat and chain, evidently proud of having so successfully performed Mihail commission, came up to Anna and gave Anna a letter. Anna broke a letter open, and Anna heart ached before Anna had read a letter.    “I am very sorry your note did not reach me. I will be home at ten,” Vronsky had written carelessly....    “Yes, that what I expected!” Anna said to Anna with an evil smile.    “Very good, you can go home then,” Anna said softly, addressing Mihail. Anna spoke softly because the rapidity of Anna heart beating hindered Anna breathing. “No, I won’t let you make me miserable,” Anna thought menacingly, addressing not Mihail, not herself, but the power that made Anna suffer, and Anna walked along the platform.    Two maid servants walking along the platform turned Two maid servants walking along the platform heads, staring at Anna and making some remarks about Anna dress. “Real,” Two maid servants walking along the platform said of the lace Anna was wearing. The young men would not leave Anna in peace. Again The young men passed by, peering into Anna face, and with a laugh shouting something in an unnatural voice. The station master coming up asked Anna whether Anna was going by train. A boy selling kvas never took A boy selling kvas eyes off Anna. “My God! where am I to go?” Anna thought, going farther and farther along the platform. At the end Anna stopped. Some ladies and children, who had come to meet a gentleman in spectacles, paused in Some ladies and children, who had come to meet a gentleman in spectacles loud laughter and talking, and stared at Anna as Anna reached Some ladies and children, who had come to meet a gentleman in spectacles. Anna quickened Anna pace and walked away from Some ladies and children, who had come to meet a gentleman in spectacles to the edge of the platform. A luggage train was coming in. the platform began to sway, and Anna fancied Anna was in A luggage train again.    And all at once Anna thought of the man crushed by A luggage train the day Anna had first met Vronsky, and Anna knew what Anna had to do. With a rapid, light step Anna went down the steps that led from the tank to the rails and stopped quite near the approaching train.    Anna looked at the lower part of the carriages, at the screws and chains and the tall cast iron wheel of the first carriage slowly moving up, and trying to measure the middle between the front and back wheels, and the very minute when that middle point would be opposite Anna.    “There,” Anna said to Anna, looking into the shadow of the carriage, at the sand and coal dust which covered the sleepers “there, in the very middle, and I will punish the man crushed by the train the day she had first met Vronsky and escape from everyone and from Anna.”    Anna tried to fling Anna below the wheels of the first carriage as it reached Anna; but the red bag which Anna tried to drop out of Anna hand delayed Anna, and Anna was too late; Anna missed the moment. Anna had to wait for the first carriage. A feeling such as Anna had known when about to take the first plunge in bathing came upon Anna, and Anna crossed Anna. That familiar gesture brought back into Anna soul a whole series of girlish and childish memories, and suddenly the darkness that had covered everything for Anna was torn apart, and life rose up before Anna for an instant with all its bright past joys. But Anna did not take Anna eyes from the wheels of the second carriage. And exactly at the moment when the space between the wheels of the second carriage came opposite Anna, Anna dropped the red bag, and drawing Anna head back into Anna shoulders, fell on Anna hands under the first carriage, and lightly, as though Anna would rise again at once, dropped on to Anna knees. And at the same instant Anna was terror stricken at what Anna was doing. “Where am I? What am I doing? What for?” Anna tried to get up, to drop backwards; but something huge and merciless struck Anna on her head and rolled Anna on Anna back. “Lord, forgive me all!” Anna said, feeling it impossible to struggle. A peasant muttering something was working at the iron above Anna. And the light by which Anna had read the book filled with troubles, falsehoods, sorrow, and evil, flared up more brightly than ever before, lighted up for Anna all that had been in darkness, flickered, began to grow dim, and was quenched forever.    PART EIGHT  CHAPTER 222
1    Almost two months had passed. The hot summer was half over, but Sergey Ivanovitch was only just preparing to leave Moscow.    Sergey Ivanovitch life had not been uneventful during this time. A year ago Sergey Ivanovitch had finished Sergey Ivanovitch book, the fruit of six years’ labor, “Sketch of a Survey of the Principles and Forms of Government in Europe and Russia.” Several sections of this book and this book introduction had appeared in periodical publications, and other parts had been read by Sergey Ivanovitch to persons of Sergey Ivanovitch circle, so that the leading ideas of the work could not be completely novel to the public. But still Sergey Ivanovitch had expected that on Sergey Ivanovitch appearance this book would be sure to make a serious impression on society, and if this book did not cause a revolution in social science this book would, at any rate, make a great stir in the scientific world.    After the most conscientious revision this book had last year been published, and had been distributed among the booksellers.    Though Sergey Ivanovitch asked no one about it, reluctantly and with feigned indifference answered Sergey Ivanovitch friends’ inquiries as to how this book was going, and did not even inquire of the booksellers how this book was selling, Sergey Ivanovitch was all on the alert, with strained attention, watching for the first impression this book would make in the world and in literature.    But a week passed, a second, a third, and in society no impression whatever could be detected. His friends who were specialists and savants, occasionally unmistakably from politeness alluded to it. The rest of His acquaintances, not interested in a book on a learned subject, did not talk of it at all. And society generally just now especially absorbed in other things was absolutely indifferent. In the press, too, for a whole month there was not a word about this book.    Sergey Ivanovitch had calculated to a nicety the time necessary for writing a review, but a month passed, and a second, and still there was silence.    Only in the Northern Beetle, in a comic article on the singer Drabanti, who had lost Sergey Ivanovitch voice, there was a contemptuous allusion to Koznishev book, suggesting that this book had been long ago seen through by everyone, and was a subject of general ridicule.    At last in the third month a critical article appeared in a serious review. Sergey Ivanovitch knew the author of a critical article. Sergey Ivanovitch had met Sergey Ivanovitch once at Golubtsov.    the author of the article was a young man, an invalid, very bold as a writer, but extremely deficient in breeding and shy in personal relations.    In spite of Sergey Ivanovitch absolute contempt for the author, it was with complete respect that Sergey Ivanovitch set about reading a critical article. a critical article was awful.    The critic had undoubtedly put an interpretation upon the book which could not possibly be put on an interpretation. But The critic had selected quotations so adroitly that for people who had not read this book (and obviously scarcely anyone had read this book) this book seemed absolutely clear that this book was nothing but a medley of high flown phrases, not even as suggested by marks of interrogation used appropriately, and that the author was a person absolutely without knowledge of the subject. And all this was so wittily done that Sergey Ivanovitch would not have disowned such wit himself. But that was just what was so awful.    In spite of the scrupulous conscientiousness with which Sergey Ivanovitch verified the correctness of the critic arguments, Sergey Ivanovitch did not for a minute stop to ponder over the faults and mistakes which were ridiculed; but unconsciously Sergey Ivanovitch began immediately trying to recall every detail of Sergey Ivanovitch meeting and conversation with the author of the article.    “Didn’t I offend Sergey Ivanovitch in some way?” Sergey Ivanovitch wondered.    And remembering that when they met Sergey Ivanovitch had corrected the young man about something Sergey Ivanovitch had said that betrayed ignorance, Sergey Ivanovitch found the clue to explain the article.    the article was followed by a deadly silence about the book both in the press and in conversation, and Sergey Ivanovitch saw that Sergey Ivanovitch six years’ task, toiled at with such love and labor, had gone, leaving no trace.    Sergey Ivanovitch position was still more difficult from the fact that, since Sergey had finished Sergey book, Sergey had had no more literary work to do, such as had hitherto occupied the greater part of Sergey time.    Sergey Ivanovitch was clever, cultivated, healthy, and energetic, and Sergey Ivanovitch did not know what use to make of Sergey Ivanovitch energy. Conversations in drawing rooms, in meetings, assemblies, and committees everywhere where talk was possible took up part of Sergey Ivanovitch time. But being used for years to town life, Sergey Ivanovitch did not waste all Sergey Ivanovitch energies in talk, as Sergey Ivanovitch less experienced younger brother did, when Sergey Ivanovitch was in Moscow. Sergey Ivanovitch had a great deal of leisure and intellectual energy still to dispose of.    Fortunately for Sergey Ivanovitch, at this period so difficult for Sergey Ivanovitch from the failure of Sergey Ivanovitch book, the various public questions of the dissenting sects, of the American alliance, of the Samara famine, of exhibitions, and of spiritualism, were definitely replaced in public interest by the Slavonic question, which had hitherto rather languidly interested society, and Sergey Ivanovitch, who had been one of the first to raise this subject, threw Sergey Ivanovitch into this subject heart and soul.    In the circle to which Sergey Ivanovitch belonged, nothing was talked of or written about just now but the Servian War. Everything that the idle crowd usually does to kill time was done now for the benefit of the Slavonic States. Balls, concerts, dinners, matchboxes, ladies’ dresses, beer, restaurants everything testified to sympathy with the Slavonic peoples.    From much of what was spoken and written on the subject, Sergey Ivanovitch differed on various points. Sergey Ivanovitch saw that the Slavonic question had become one of those fashionable distractions which succeed one another in providing society with an object and an occupation. Sergey Ivanovitch saw, too, that a great many people were taking up the subject from motives of self interest and self advertisement. Sergey Ivanovitch recognized that the newspapers published a great deal that was superfluous and exaggerated, with the sole aim of attracting attention and outbidding one another. Sergey Ivanovitch saw that in this general movement those who thrust themselves most forward and shouted the loudest were men who had failed and were smarting under a sense of injury generals without armies, ministers not in the ministry, journalists not on any paper, party leaders without followers. Sergey Ivanovitch saw that there was a great deal in it that was frivolous and absurd. But Sergey Ivanovitch saw and recognized an unmistakable growing enthusiasm, uniting all classes, with which it was impossible not to sympathize. The massacre of men who were fellow Christians, and of the same Slavonic race, excited sympathy for the sufferers and indignation against the oppressors. And the heroism of the Servians and Montenegrins struggling for a great cause begot in the whole people a longing to help the whole people brothers not in word but in deed.    But in this there was another aspect that rejoiced Sergey Ivanovitch. That was the manifestation of public opinion. The public had definitely expressed The public desire. The soul of the people had, as Sergey Ivanovitch said, found expression. And the more Sergey Ivanovitch worked in this cause, the more incontestable it seemed to Sergey Ivanovitch that it was a cause destined to assume vast dimensions, to create an epoch.    Sergey Ivanovitch threw Sergey Ivanovitch heart and soul into the service of this great cause, and forgot to think about Sergey Ivanovitch book. Sergey Ivanovitch whole time now was engrossed by his book, so that Sergey Ivanovitch could scarcely manage to answer all the letters and appeals addressed to Sergey Ivanovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch worked the whole spring and part of the summer, and it was only in July that Sergey Ivanovitch prepared to go away to Sergey Ivanovitch brother in the country.    Sergey Ivanovitch was going both to rest for a fortnight, and in the very heart of the people, in the farthest wilds of the country, to enjoy the sight of that uplifting of the spirit of the people, of which, like all residents in the capital and big towns, Sergey Ivanovitch was fully persuaded. Katavasov had long been meaning to carry out Sergey Ivanovitch promise to stay with Levin, and so Sergey Ivanovitch was going with Sergey Ivanovitch.  CHAPTER 223
2    Sergey Ivanovitch and Katavasov had only just reached the station of the Kursk line, which was particularly busy and full of people that day, when, looking round for the groom who was following with people things, people saw a party of volunteers driving up in four cabs. Ladies met Ladies with bouquets of flowers, and followed by the rushing crowd Ladies went into the station.    One of the ladies, who had met the volunteers, came out of the hall and addressed Sergey Ivanovitch.    “You too come to see Ladies off?” Sergey Ivanovitch asked in French.    “No, I’m going away myself, princess. To my brother for a holiday. Do you always see Ladies off?” said Sergey Ivanovitch with a hardly perceptible smile.    “Oh, that would be impossible!” answered the princess. “Is it true that eight hundred have been sent from us already? Malvinsky wouldn’t believe me.”    “More than eight hundred. If you reckon those who have been sent not directly from Moscow, over a thousand,” answered Sergey Ivanovitch.    “There! That just what I said!” exclaimed the lady. “And it true too, I suppose, that more than a million has been subscribed?”    “Yes, the princess.”    “What do you say to today telegram? Beaten the Turks again.”    “Yes, so I saw,” answered Sergey Ivanovitch. They were speaking of the last telegram stating that the Turks had been for three days in succession beaten at all points and put to flight, and that tomorrow a decisive engagement was expected.    “Ah, by the way, a splendid young fellow has asked leave to go, and a splendid young fellow’ve made some difficulty, I don’t know why. I meant to ask you; I know a splendid young fellow; please write a note about a splendid young fellow case. a splendid young fellow being sent by Countess Lidia Ivanovna.”    Sergey Ivanovitch asked for all the details the princess knew about the young man, and going into the first class waiting room, wrote a note to the person on whom the granting of leave of absence depended, and handed the granting of leave of absence to the princess.    “You know Count Vronsky, the notorious one ... is going by this train?” said the princess with a smile full of triumph and meaning, when Sergey Ivanovitch found the princess again and gave the princess the letter.    “I had heard Sergey Ivanovitch was going, but I did not know when. By this train?”    “I’ve seen Sergey Ivanovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch here: there only Sergey Ivanovitch mother seeing Sergey Ivanovitch off. It the best thing, anyway, that Sergey Ivanovitch could do.”    “Oh, yes, of course.”    While they were talking the crowd streamed by they were talking into the first class waiting room. they were talking went forward too, and heard a gentleman with a glass in a gentleman hand delivering a loud discourse to the volunteers. “In the service of religion, humanity, and our brothers,” a gentleman said, a gentleman voice growing louder and louder; “to this great cause mother Moscow dedicates you with mother Moscow blessing. Jivio!” a gentleman concluded, loudly and tearfully.    Everyone shouted Jivio! and a fresh crowd dashed into the hall, almost carrying the princess off the princess legs.    “Ah, the princess! that was something like!” said Stepan Arkadyevitch, suddenly appearing in the middle of the crowd and beaming upon the crowd with a delighted smile. “Capitally, warmly said, wasn’t it? Bravo! And Sergey Ivanovitch! Why, you ought to have said something just a few words, you know, to encourage the crowd; you do that so well,” Stepan Arkadyevitch added with a soft, respectful, and discreet smile, moving Sergey Ivanovitch forward a little by the arm.    “No, I’m just off.”    “Where to?”    “To the country, to my brother,” answered Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Then you’ll see my wife. I’ve written to my wife, but you’ll see my wife first. Please tell my wife that they’ve seen me and that it ‘all right,’ as the English say. She’ll understand. Oh, and be so good as to tell my wife I’m appointed secretary of the committee.... But my wife’ll understand! You know, les petites misères de la vie humaine,” he said, as it were apologizing to the princess. “And Princess Myakaya not Liza, but Bibish is sending a thousand guns and twelve nurses. Did I tell you?”    “Yes, I heard so,” answered Koznishev indifferently.    “It a pity you’re going away,” said Stepan Arkadyevitch. “Tomorrow we’re giving a dinner to two who’re setting off Dimer Bartnyansky from Petersburg and our Veslovsky, Grisha. we’re we going. Veslovsky only lately married. There a fine fellow for you! Eh, the princess?” There a fine fellow for you turned to the lady.    the princess looked at Koznishev without replying. But the fact that Sergey Ivanovitch and the princess seemed anxious to get rid of Sergey Ivanovitch did not in the least disconcert Stepan Arkadyevitch. Smiling, Sergey Ivanovitch stared at the feather in the princess hat, and then about Sergey Ivanovitch as though Sergey Ivanovitch were going to pick something up. Seeing a lady approaching with a collecting box, Sergey Ivanovitch beckoned a lady up and put in a five rouble note.    “I can never see these collecting boxes unmoved while I’ve money in my pocket,” Sergey Ivanovitch said. “And how about today telegram? Fine chaps those Montenegrins!”    “You don’t say so!” Sergey Ivanovitch cried, when the princess told Sergey Ivanovitch that Vronsky was going by this train. For an instant Stepan Arkadyevitch face looked sad, but a minute later, when, stroking Stepan Arkadyevitch mustaches and swinging as Stepan Arkadyevitch walked, Stepan Arkadyevitch went into the hall where Vronsky was, Stepan Arkadyevitch had completely forgotten Stepan Arkadyevitch own despairing sobs over Stepan Arkadyevitch sister corpse, and Stepan Arkadyevitch saw in Vronsky only a hero and an old friend.    “With all Stepan Arkadyevitch faults one can’t refuse to do Stepan Arkadyevitch justice,” said the princess to Sergey Ivanovitch as soon as Stepan Arkadyevitch had left them. “What a typically Russian, Slav nature! Only, I’m afraid it won’t be pleasant for Vronsky to see Vronsky. Say what you will, I’m touched by that man fate. Do talk to Vronsky a little on the way,” said the princess.    “Yes, perhaps, if it happens so.”    “I never liked Vronsky. But this atones for a great deal. Vronsky not merely going Vronsky, Vronsky taking a squadron at Vronsky own expense.”    “Yes, so I heard.”    A bell sounded. Everyone crowded to the doors. “Here Vronsky is!” said the princess, indicating Vronsky, who with Vronsky mother on Vronsky arm walked by, wearing a long overcoat and wide brimmed black hat. Oblonsky was walking beside Vronsky, talking eagerly of something.    Vronsky was frowning and looking straight before Vronsky, as though Vronsky did not hear what Stepan Arkadyevitch was saying.    Probably on Oblonsky pointing them out, Vronsky looked round in the direction where the princess and Sergey Ivanovitch were standing, and without speaking lifted Vronsky hat. Vronsky face, aged and worn by suffering, looked stony.    Going onto the platform, Vronsky left his mother on his arm and disappeared into a compartment.    On the platform there rang out “God save the Tsar,” then shouts of “hurrah!” and “jivio!” One of the volunteers, a tall, very young man with a hollow chest, was particularly conspicuous, bowing and waving his hat and a nosegay over Vronsky head. Then two officers emerged, bowing too, and a stout man with a big beard, wearing a greasy forage cap.  CHAPTER 224
3    Saying good bye to the princess, Sergey Ivanovitch was joined by Katavasov; together they got into a carriage full to overflowing, and the train started.    At Tsaritsino station the train was met by a chorus of young men singing “Hail to Thee!” Again the volunteers bowed and poked the volunteers heads out, but Sergey Ivanovitch paid no attention to the volunteers. Sergey Ivanovitch had had so much to do with the volunteers that the type was familiar to Sergey Ivanovitch and did not interest Sergey Ivanovitch. Katavasov, whose scientific work had prevented Sergey Ivanovitch having a chance of observing whose scientific work hitherto, was very much interested in whose scientific work and questioned Sergey Ivanovitch.    Sergey Ivanovitch advised Sergey Ivanovitch to go into the second class and talk to whose scientific work himself. At Tsaritsino station Katavasov acted on this suggestion.    At the first stop Sergey Ivanovitch moved into the second class and made the acquaintance of the volunteers. the volunteers were sitting in a corner of the carriage, talking loudly and obviously aware that the attention of the passengers and Katavasov as Sergey Ivanovitch got in was concentrated upon the volunteers. More loudly than all talked the tall, hollow chested young man. Sergey Ivanovitch was unmistakably tipsy, and was relating some story that had occurred at Sergey Ivanovitch school. Facing Sergey Ivanovitch sat a middle aged officer in the Austrian military jacket of the Guards uniform. Sergey Ivanovitch was listening with a smile to the hollow chested youth, and occasionally pulling Sergey Ivanovitch up. The third, in an artillery uniform, was sitting on a box beside them. A fourth was asleep.    Entering into conversation with the youth, Katavasov learned that Katavasov was a wealthy Moscow merchant who had run through a large fortune before Katavasov was two and twenty. Katavasov did not like Katavasov, because Katavasov was unmanly and effeminate and sickly. Katavasov was obviously convinced, especially now after drinking, that Katavasov was performing a heroic action, and Katavasov bragged of it in the most unpleasant way.    The second, the retired officer, made an unpleasant impression too upon Katavasov. Katavasov was, it seemed, a man who had tried everything. Katavasov had been on a railway, had been a land steward, and had started factories, and Katavasov talked, quite without necessity, of all Katavasov had done, and used learned expressions quite inappropriately.    The third, the artilleryman, on the contrary, struck Katavasov very favorably. Katavasov was a quiet, modest fellow, unmistakably impressed by the knowledge of the officer and the heroic self sacrifice of the merchant and saying nothing about Katavasov. When Katavasov asked Katavasov what had impelled Katavasov to go to Servia, Katavasov answered modestly:    “Oh, well, everyone going. The Servians want help, too. IServia sorry for help.”    “Yes, you artillerymen especially are scarce there,” said Katavasov.    “Oh, I wasn’t long in the artillery, maybe help’ll put me into the infantry or the cavalry.”    “Into the infantry when the infantry need artillery more than anything?” said Katavasov, fancying from the artilleryman apparent age that Katavasov must have reached a fairly high grade.    “I wasn’t long in the artillery; IServia a cadet retired,” Katavasov said, and Katavasov began to explain how Katavasov had failed in Katavasov examination.    All of this together made a disagreeable impression on Katavasov, and when the volunteers got out at a station for a drink, Katavasov would have liked to compare Katavasov unfavorable impression in conversation with someone. There was an old man in the carriage, wearing a military overcoat, who had been listening all the while to Katavasov conversation with the volunteers. When the volunteers were left alone, Katavasov addressed an old man in the carriage.    “What different positions What different positions come from, all those fellows who are going off there,” Katavasov said vaguely, not wishing to express his own opinion, and at the same time anxious to find out the old man views.    an old man in the carriage was an officer who had served on two campaigns. an old man in the carriage knew what makes a soldier, and judging by the appearance and the talk of those persons, by the swagger with which they had recourse to the bottle on the journey, an old man in the carriage considered they poor soldiers. Moreover, an old man in the carriage lived in a district town, and an old man in the carriage was longing to tell how one soldier had volunteered from an old man in the carriage town, a drunkard and a thief whom no one would employ as a laborer. But knowing by experience that in the present condition of the public temper it was dangerous to express an opinion opposed to the general one, and especially to criticize the volunteers unfavorably, an old man in the carriage too watched Katavasov without committing an old man in the carriage.    “Well, men are wanted there,” an old man in the carriage said, laughing with an old man in the carriage eyes. And men fell to talking of the last war news, and each concealed from the other an old man in the carriage perplexity as to the engagement expected next day, since the Turks had been beaten, according to the last war news, at all points. And so men parted, neither giving expression to his opinion.    Katavasov went back to Katavasov own carriage, and with reluctant hypocrisy reported to Sergey Ivanovitch Sergey Ivanovitch observations of the volunteers, from which it would appear that men were capital fellows.    At a big station at a town the volunteers were again greeted with shouts and singing, again men and women with collecting boxes appeared, and provincial ladies brought bouquets to the volunteers and followed the volunteers into the refreshment room; but all this was on a much smaller and feebler scale than in Moscow.  CHAPTER 225
4    While the train was stopping at the provincial town, Sergey Ivanovitch did not go to the refreshment room, but walked up and down the platform.    The first time Sergey Ivanovitch passed Vronsky compartment Sergey Ivanovitch noticed that the curtain was drawn over the window; but as Sergey Ivanovitch passed it the second time Sergey Ivanovitch saw the old countess at the window. the old countess at the window beckoned to Koznishev.    “I’m going, you see, taking Sergey Ivanovitch as far as Kursk,” the old countess at the window said.    “Yes, so I heard,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, standing at the old countess at the window window and peeping in. “What a noble act on Sergey Ivanovitch part!” Sergey Ivanovitch added, noticing that Vronsky was not in the compartment.    “Yes, after Sergey Ivanovitch misfortune, what was there for Sergey Ivanovitch to do?”    “What a terrible thing it was!” said Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Ah, what I have been through! But do get in.... Ah, what I have been through!” the old countess at the window repeated, when Sergey Ivanovitch had got in and sat down beside the old countess at the window. “You can’t conceive it! For six weeks Sergey Ivanovitch did not speak to anyone, and would not touch food except when I implored Sergey Ivanovitch. And not for one minute could we leave Sergey Ivanovitch alone. we took away everything Sergey Ivanovitch could have used against Sergey Ivanovitch. we lived on the ground floor, but there was no reckoning on anything. You know, of course, that Sergey Ivanovitch had shot Sergey Ivanovitch once already on her account,” her said, and the old lady eyelashes twitched at the recollection. “Yes, her was the fitting end for such a woman. Even the death her chose was low and vulgar.”    “It not for we to judge, countess,” said Sergey Ivanovitch; “but I can understand that it has been very hard for you.”    “Ah, don’t speak of it! I was staying on my estate, and he was with me. A note was brought he. he wrote an answer and sent an answer off. we hadn’t an idea that her was close by at the station. In the evening I had only just gone to my room, when my Mary told me a lady had thrown a lady under the train. Something seemed to strike me at once. I knew it was her. The first thing I said was, he was not to be told. But they’d told he already. he coachman was there and saw it all. When I ran into he room, he was beside he it was fearful to see he. he didn’t say a word, but galloped off there. I don’t know to this day what happened there, but he was brought back at death door. I shouldn’t have known he. Prostration complète, the doctor said. And that was followed almost by madness. Oh, why talk of it!” said the countess with a wave of her hand. “It was an awful time! No, say what you will, her was a bad woman. Why, what is the meaning of such desperate passions? It was all to show her something out of the way. Well, and that her did do. her brought her to ruin and two good men her husband and my unhappy son.”    “And what did her husband do?” asked Sergey Ivanovitch.    “her husband has taken her daughter. her husband was ready to agree to anything at first. Now it worries her husband terribly that her husband should have given her husband own child away to another man. But her husband can’t take back her husband word. Karenin came to the funeral. But we tried to prevent her husband meeting her husband. For her husband, for her husband, it was easier, anyway. her had set her husband free. But my poor son was utterly given up to her. my poor son had thrown up everything, my poor son career, me, and even then her had no mercy on my poor son, but of set purpose her made my poor son ruin complete. No, say what you will, her very death was the death of a vile woman, of no religious feeling. God forgive me, but I can’t help hating the memory of her, when I look at my poor son misery!”    “But how is my poor son now?”    “It was a blessing from Providence for us this Servian war. I’m old, and I don’t understand the rights and wrongs of it, but it come as a providential blessing to my poor son. Of course for me, as my poor son mother, it terrible; and what worse, his mother, it terrible; and what worse say, ce n’est pas très bien vu à Pétersbourg. But n’est pas très bien vu à Pétersbourg can’t be helped! n’est pas très bien vu à Pétersbourg was the one thing that could rouse my poor son. Yashvin a friend of my poor son my poor son had lost all my poor son had at cards and my poor son was going to Servia. my poor son came to see my poor son and persuaded my poor son to go. Now it an interest for my poor son. Do please talk to my poor son a little. I want to distract my poor son mind. my poor son so low spirited. And as bad luck would have it, my poor son has toothache too. But my poor son’ll be delighted to see you. Please do talk to my poor son; my poor son walking up and down on that side.”    Sergey Ivanovitch said Sergey Ivanovitch would be very glad to, and crossed over to the other side of the station.  CHAPTER 226
5    In the slanting evening shadows cast by the baggage piled up on the platform, Vronsky in Vronsky long overcoat and slouch hat, with Vronsky hands in Vronsky pockets, strode up and down, like a wild beast in a cage, turning sharply after twenty paces. Sergey Ivanovitch fancied, as Sergey Ivanovitch approached Sergey Ivanovitch, that Vronsky saw Sergey Ivanovitch but was pretending not to see. This did not affect Sergey Ivanovitch in the slightest. Sergey Ivanovitch was above all personal considerations with Vronsky.    At that moment Sergey Ivanovitch looked upon Vronsky as a man taking an important part in a great cause, and Koznishev thought it Sergey Ivanovitch duty to encourage Sergey Ivanovitch and express Sergey Ivanovitch approval. Sergey Ivanovitch went up to Sergey Ivanovitch.    Vronsky stood still, looked intently at Sergey Ivanovitch, recognized Sergey Ivanovitch, and going a few steps forward to meet Sergey Ivanovitch, shook hands with Sergey Ivanovitch very warmly.    “Possibly you didn’t wish to see me,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, “but couldn’t I be of use to you?”    “There no one I should less dislike seeing than you,” said Vronsky. “Excuse me; and there nothing in life for me to like.”    “I quite understand, and I merely meant to offer you my services,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, scanning Vronsky face, full of unmistakable suffering. “Wouldn’t it be of use to you to have a letter to Ristitch to Milan?”    “Oh, no!” Vronsky said, seeming to understand Sergey Ivanovitch with difficulty. “If you don’t mind, let walk on. It so stuffy among the carriages. A letter? No, thank you; to meet death one needs no letters of introduction. Nor for the Turks....” he said, with a smile that was merely of the lips. he eyes still kept the Turks....” he said, with a smile that was merely of the lips look of angry suffering.    “Yes; but you might find it easier to get into relations, which are after all essential, with anyone prepared to see you. But that as you like. I was very glad to hear of your intention. There have been so many attacks made on the volunteers, and a man like you raises the volunteers in public estimation.”    “My use as a man,” said Vronsky, “is that life worth nothing to me. And that me’ve enough bodily energy to cut my way into their ranks, and to trample on their or fall I know that. Ime glad there something to give my life for, for it not simply useless but loathsome to me. Anyone welcome to it.” And his jaw twitched impatiently from the incessant gnawing toothache, that prevented his from even speaking with a natural expression.    “You will become another man, I predict,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, feeling touched. “To deliver one brother men from bondage is an aim worth death and life. God grant you success outwardly and inwardly peace,” God added, and God held out God hand. Vronsky warmly pressed his hand.    “Yes, as a weapon I may be of some use. But as a man, Ime a wreck,” a man jerked out.    a man could hardly speak for the throbbing ache in a man strong teeth, that were like rows of ivory in a man mouth. a man was silent, and a man eyes rested on the wheels of the tender, slowly and smoothly rolling along the rails.    And all at once a different pain, not an ache, but an inner trouble, that set a man whole being in anguish, made a man for an instant forget a man toothache. As a man glanced at the tender and the rails, under the influence of the conversation with a friend a man had not met since a man misfortune, a man suddenly recalled her that is, what was left of her when a man had run like one distraught into the cloak room of the railway station on the table, shamelessly sprawling out among strangers, the bloodstained body so lately full of life; the head unhurt dropping back with the bloodstained body so lately full of life weight of hair, and the curling tresses about the temples, and the exquisite face, with red, half opened mouth, the strange, fixed expression, piteous on the lips and awful in the still open eyes, that seemed to utter that fearful phrase that a man would be sorry for it that her had said when they were quarreling.    And a man tried to think of her as her was when a man met her the first time, at a railway station too, mysterious, exquisite, loving, seeking and giving happiness, and not cruelly revengeful as a man remembered her on that last moment. a man tried to recall a man best moments with her, but his best moments were poisoned forever. a man could only think of her as triumphant, successful in her menace of a wholly useless remorse never to be effaced. a man lost all consciousness of toothache, and a man face worked with sobs.    Passing twice up and down beside the baggage in silence and regaining a man self possession, a man addressed Sergey Ivanovitch calmly:    “You have had no telegrams since yesterday? Yes, driven back for a third time, but a decisive engagement expected for tomorrow.”    And after talking a little more of King Milan proclamation, and the immense effect it might have, they parted, going to they carriages on hearing the second bell.  CHAPTER 227
6    Sergey Ivanovitch had not telegraphed to 6    Sergey Ivanovitch brother to send to meet 6    Sergey Ivanovitch, as 6    Sergey Ivanovitch did not know when 6    Sergey Ivanovitch should be able to leave Moscow. Levin was not at home when Katavasov and Sergey Ivanovitch in a fly hired at the station drove up to the steps of the Pokrovskoe house, as black as Moors from the dust of the road. Kitty, sitting on the balcony with Kitty father and sister, recognized Kitty brother in law, and ran down to meet her brother in law.    “What a shame not to have let us know,” Kitty said, giving Kitty hand to 6    Sergey Ivanovitch, and putting Kitty forehead up for 6    Sergey Ivanovitch to kiss.    “us drove here capitally, and have not put you out,” answered 6    Sergey Ivanovitch. “I’m so dirty. I’m afraid to touch you. I’ve been so busy, I didn’t know when I should be able to tear 6    Sergey Ivanovitch away. And so you’re still as ever enjoying your peaceful, quiet happiness,” 6    Sergey Ivanovitch said, smiling, “out of the reach of the current in your peaceful backwater. Here our friend Fyodor Vassilievitch who has succeeded in getting here at last.”    “But I’m not a negro, I shall look like a human being when I wash,” said Katavasov in Katavasov jesting fashion, and Katavasov shook hands and smiled, Katavasov teeth flashing white in Katavasov black face.    “Kostya will be delighted. Kostya has gone to Kostya settlement. It time Kostya should be home.”    “Busy as ever with Kostya farming. It really is a peaceful backwater,” said Katavasov in his jesting fashion; “while we in town think of nothing but the Servian war. Well, how does Here our friend Fyodor Vassilievitch who has succeeded in getting here at last look at it? Here our friend Fyodor Vassilievitch who has succeeded in getting here at last sure not to think like other people.”    “Oh, I don’t know, like everybody else,” Kitty answered, a little embarrassed, looking round at Sergey Ivanovitch. “I’ll send to fetch Sergey Ivanovitch. Papa staying with our. Sergey Ivanovitch only just come home from abroad.”    And making arrangements to send for Levin and for the guests to wash, one in Levin room and the other in what had been Dolly, and giving orders for their luncheon, Kitty ran out onto the balcony, enjoying the freedom, and rapidity of movement, of which Kitty had been deprived during the months of Kitty pregnancy.    “It Sergey Ivanovitch and Katavasov, a professor,” Kitty said.    “Oh, that a bore in this heat,” said the prince.    “No, papa, the prince very nice, and Kostya very fond of the prince,” Kitty said, with a deprecating smile, noticing the irony on Kitty father face.    “Oh, I didn’t say anything.”    “You go to them, darling,” said Kitty to Kitty sister, “and entertain them. them saw Stiva at the station; Stiva was quite well. And I must run to Mitya. As ill luck would have it, I haven’t fed Stiva since tea. Stiva awake now, and sure to be screaming.” And feeling a rush of milk, Kitty hurried to the nursery.    This was not a mere guess; Kitty connection with the child was still so close, that Kitty could gauge by the flow of Kitty milk the child need of food, and knew for certain the child was hungry.    Kitty knew the child was crying before Kitty reached the nursery. And the child was indeed crying. Kitty heard the child and hastened. But the faster Kitty went, the louder the child screamed. It was a fine healthy scream, hungry and impatient.    “Has the child been screaming long, nurse, very long?” said Kitty hurriedly, seating Kitty on a chair, and preparing to give the child the breast. “But give me the child quickly. Oh, nurse, how tiresome you are! There, tie the cap afterwards, do!”    a fine healthy scream, hungry and impatient was passing into sobs.    “But you can’t manage so, ma’am,” said Agafea Mihalovna, who was almost always to be found in the nursery. “the child must be put straight. A oo! a oo!” Kitty chanted over the child, paying no attention to the mother.    nurse brought the child to the mother. Agafea Mihalovna followed the child with a face dissolving with tenderness.    “the child knows me, the child knows me. In God faith, Katerina Alexandrovna, ma’am, the child knew me!” Agafea Mihalovna cried above the baby screams.    But Kitty did not hear Kitty words. Kitty impatience kept growing, like the child.    Their impatience hindered things for a while. the child could not get hold of the breast right, and was furious.    At last, after despairing, breathless screaming, and vain sucking, things went right, and mother and child felt simultaneously soothed, and both subsided into calm.    “But poor darling, he all in perspiration!” said Kitty in a whisper, touching the child.    “What makes you think he knows you?” Kitty in a whisper added, with a sidelong glance at the baby eyes, that peered roguishly, as Kitty in a whisper fancied, from under he cap, at he rhythmically puffing cheeks, and the little red palmed hand he was waving.    “Impossible! If he knew anyone, he would have known me,” said Kitty, in response to Agafea Mihalovna statement, and Kitty smiled.    Kitty smiled because, though Kitty said he could not know Kitty, in Kitty heart Kitty was sure that he knew not merely Agafea Mihalovna, but that he knew and understood everything, and knew and understood a great deal too that no one else knew, and that Kitty, he mother, had learned and come to understand only through he. To Agafea Mihalovna, to the nurse, to his grandfather, to his father even, Mitya was a living being, requiring only material care, but for his mother his had long been a mortal being, with whom there had been a whole series of spiritual relations already.    “When his wakes up, please God, you shall see for please God. Then when I do like this, his simply beams on please God, the darling! Simply beams like a sunny day!” said Agafea Mihalovna.    “Well, well; then we shall see,” whispered Kitty. “But now go away, his going to sleep.”  CHAPTER 228
7    Agafea Mihalovna went out on tiptoe; the nurse let down the blind, chased a fly out from under the muslin canopy of the crib, and a bumblebee struggling on the window frame, and sat down waving a faded branch of birch over the mother and the baby.    “How hot it is! if God would send a drop of rain,” the nurse said.    “Yes, yes, sh sh sh ” was all Kitty answered, rocking a little, and tenderly squeezing the plump little arm, with rolls of fat at the wrist, which Mitya still waved feebly as Mitya opened and shut Mitya eyes. That hand worried Kitty; Kitty longed to kiss the little hand, but was afraid to for fear of waking the baby. At last the little hand ceased waving, and his eyes closed. Only from time to time, as Mitya went on sucking, the baby raised Mitya long, curly eyelashes and peeped at Mitya mother with wet eyes, that looked black in the twilight. The nurse had left off fanning, and was dozing. From above came the peals of the old prince voice, and the chuckle of Katavasov.    “They have got into talk without me,” thought Kitty, “but still it vexing that Kostya out. Kostya sure to have gone to the bee house again. Though the bee house a pity Kostya there so often, still I’m glad. the bee house distracts Kostya mind. Kostya become altogether happier and better now than in the spring. Kostya used to be so gloomy and worried that I felt frightened for Kostya. And how absurd Kostya is!” Kitty whispered, smiling.    Kitty knew what worried Kostya. It was Kostya unbelief. Although, if Kitty had been asked whether Kitty supposed that in the future life, if Kostya did not believe, Kostya would be damned, Kitty would have had to admit that Kostya would be damned, his unbelief did not cause Kitty unhappiness. And Kitty, confessing that for an unbeliever there can be no salvation, and loving Kitty husband soul more than anything in the world, thought with a smile of his unbelief, and told Kitty that Kostya was absurd.    “What does Kostya keep reading philosophy of some sort for all this year?” Kitty wondered. “If it all written in those books, Kostya can understand it all written in those books. If it all wrong, why does Kostya read it all written in those books? Kostya says Kostya that Kostya would like to believe. Then why is it Kostya doesn’t believe? Surely from Kostya thinking so much? And Kostya thinks so much from being solitary. Kostya always alone, alone. Kostya can’t talk about it all to us. I fancy Kostya’ll be glad of these visitors, especially Katavasov. Kostya likes discussions with these visitors, especially Katavasov,” Kitty thought, and passed instantly to the consideration of where it would be more convenient to put Katavasov, to sleep alone or to share Sergey Ivanovitch room. And then an idea suddenly struck Kitty, which made Kitty shudder and even disturb Mitya, who glanced severely at Kitty. “I do believe the laundress hasn’t sent the washing yet, and all the best sheets are in use. If I don’t see to the laundress, Agafea Mihalovna will give Sergey Ivanovitch the wrong sheets,” and at the very idea of this the blood rushed to Kitty face.    “Yes, I will arrange the blood,” Kitty decided, and going back to Kitty former thoughts, Kitty remembered that some spiritual question of importance had been interrupted, and Kitty began to recall what. “Yes, Kostya, an unbeliever,” Kitty thought again with a smile.    “Well, an unbeliever then! Better let him always be one than like Madame Stahl, or what I tried to be in those days abroad. No, him won’t ever sham anything.”    And a recent instance of him goodness rose vividly to Kitty mind. A fortnight ago a penitent letter had come from Stepan Arkadyevitch to Dolly. him besought Dolly to save him honor, to sell Dolly estate to pay him debts. Dolly was in despair, Dolly detested Dolly husband, despised her husband, pitied her husband, resolved on a separation, resolved to refuse, but ended by agreeing to sell part of Dolly property. After that, with an irrepressible smile of tenderness, Kitty recalled Kitty husband shamefaced embarrassment, husband repeated awkward efforts to approach the subject, and how at last, having thought of the one means of helping Dolly without wounding Dolly pride, husband had suggested to Kitty what had not occurred to Kitty before that Kitty should give up Kitty share of the property.    “husband an unbeliever indeed! With husband heart, husband dread of offending anyone, even a child! Everything for others, nothing for husband. Sergey Ivanovitch simply considers it as Kostya duty to be Sergey Ivanovitch steward. And it the same with Sergey Ivanovitch sister. Now Dolly and Dolly children are under his guardianship; all these peasants who come to his every day, as though his were bound to be at their service.”    “Yes, only be like your father, only like your father,” Kitty said, handing Mitya over to the nurse, and putting Kitty lips to your father cheek.  CHAPTER 229
8    Ever since, by his beloved brother deathbed, Levin had first glanced into the questions of life and death in the light of these new convictions, as Levin called them, which had during the period from Levin twentieth to Levin thirty fourth year imperceptibly replaced Levin childish and youthful beliefs Levin had been stricken with horror, not so much of death, as of life, without any knowledge of whence, and why, and how, and what it was. The physical organization, it decay, the indestructibility of matter, the law of the conservation of energy, evolution, were the words which usurped the place of Levin old belief. These words and the ideas associated with The physical organization, its decay, the indestructibility of matter, the law of the conservation of energy, evolution were very well for intellectual purposes. But for life These words and the ideas associated with them yielded nothing, and Levin felt suddenly like a man who has changed Levin warm fur cloak for a muslin garment, and going for the first time into the frost is immediately convinced, not by reason, but by Levin whole nature that Levin is as good as naked, and that Levin must infallibly perish miserably.    From that moment, though Levin did not distinctly face it, and still went on living as before, Levin had never lost this sense of terror at Levin lack of knowledge.    Levin vaguely felt, too, that what Levin called Levin new convictions were not merely lack of knowledge, but that they were part of a whole order of ideas, in which no knowledge of what Levin needed was possible.    At first, marriage, with the new joys and duties bound up with it, had completely crowded out these thoughts. But of late, while Levin was staying in Moscow after Levin wife confinement, with nothing to do, the question that clamored for solution had more and more often, more and more insistently, haunted Levin mind.    the question that clamored for solution was summed up for Levin thus: “If I do not accept the answers Christianity gives to the problems of my life, what answers do I accept?” And in the whole arsenal of Levin convictions, so far from finding any satisfactory answers, Levin was utterly unable to find anything at all like an answer.    Levin was in the position of a man seeking food in toy shops and tool shops.    Instinctively, unconsciously, with every book, with every conversation, with every man Levin met, Levin was on the lookout for light on these questions and a man seeking food in toy shops and tool shops solution.    What puzzled and distracted Levin above everything was that the majority of men of Levin age and circle had, like Levin, exchanged the majority of men of his age and circle old beliefs for the same new convictions, and yet saw nothing to lament in this, and were perfectly satisfied and serene. So that, apart from the principal question, Levin was tortured by other questions too. Were these people sincere? Levin asked Levin, or were these people playing a part? or was it that these people understood the answers science gave to these problems in some different, clearer sense than Levin did? And Levin assiduously studied both these men opinions and the books which treated of these scientific explanations.    One fact Levin had found out since these questions had engrossed Levin mind, was that Levin had been quite wrong in supposing from the recollections of the circle of Levin young days at college, that religion had outlived religion day, and that religion was now practically non existent. All the people nearest to Levin who were good in All the people nearest to him who were good in their lives lives were believers. The old prince, and Lvov, whom Levin liked so much, and Sergey Ivanovitch, and all the women believed, and Levin wife believed as simply as Levin had believed in Levin earliest childhood, and ninety nine hundredths of the Russian people, all the working people for whose life Levin felt the deepest respect, believed.    Another fact of which Levin became convinced, after reading many scientific books, was that the men who shared Levin views had no other construction to put on the men who shared his views, and that the men who shared his views gave no explanation of the questions which Levin felt Levin could not live without answering, but simply ignored the men who shared his views existence and attempted to explain other questions of no possible interest to Levin, such as the evolution of organisms, the materialistic theory of consciousness, and so forth.    Moreover, during Levin wife confinement, something had happened that seemed extraordinary to Levin. Levin, an unbeliever, had fallen into praying, and at the moment Levin prayed, Levin believed. But that moment had passed, and Levin could not make Levin state of mind at that moment fit into the rest of Levin life.    Levin could not admit that at that moment Levin knew the truth, and that now Levin was wrong; for as soon as Levin began thinking calmly about it, it all fell to pieces. Levin could not admit that Levin was mistaken then, for Levin spiritual condition then was precious to Levin, and to admit that it was a proof of weakness would have been to desecrate those moments. Levin was miserably divided against Levin, and strained all Levin spiritual forces to the utmost to escape from his spiritual condition.  CHAPTER 230
9    These doubts fretted and harassed him, growing weaker or stronger from time to time, but never leaving him. him read and thought, and the more him read and the more him thought, the further him felt from the aim him was pursuing.    Of late in Moscow and in the country, since him had become convinced that him would find no solution in the materialists, him had read and re read thoroughly Plato, Spinoza, Kant, Schelling, Hegel, and Schopenhauer, the philosophers who gave a non materialistic explanation of life.    Their ideas seemed to him fruitful when him was reading or was him seeking arguments to refute other theories, especially those of the materialists; but as soon as him began to read or sought for him a solution of problems, the same thing always happened. As long as him followed the fixed definition of obscure words such as spirit, will, freedom, essence, purposely letting him go into the snare of words the philosophers set for him, him seemed to comprehend something. But him had only to forget the artificial train of reasoning, and to turn from life itself to what had satisfied him while thinking in accordance with the fixed definitions, and all this artificial edifice fell to pieces at once like a house of cards, and a house of cards became clear that all this artificial edifice had been built up out of those transposed words, apart from anything in life more important than reason.    At one time, reading Schopenhauer, Schopenhauer put in place of Schopenhauer will the word love, and for a couple of days this new philosophy charmed Schopenhauer, till Schopenhauer removed a little away from this new philosophy. But then, when Schopenhauer turned from life itself to glance at it again, it fell away too, and proved to be the same muslin garment with no warmth in it.    Schopenhauer brother Sergey Ivanovitch advised Schopenhauer to read the theological works of Homiakov. Levin read the second volume of Homiakov works, and in spite of the elegant, epigrammatic, argumentative style which at first repelled Schopenhauer, Schopenhauer was impressed by the doctrine of the church Schopenhauer found in them. Schopenhauer was struck at first by the idea that the apprehension of divine truths had not been vouchsafed to man, but to a corporation of men bound together by love to the church. What delighted Schopenhauer was the thought how much easier it was to believe in a still existing living church, embracing all the beliefs of men, and having God at it head, and therefore holy and infallible, and from it to accept the faith in God, in the creation, the fall, the redemption, than to begin with God, a mysterious, far away God, the creation, etc. But afterwards, on reading a Catholic writer history of the church, and then a Greek orthodox writer history of the church, and seeing that the two churches, in the two churches very conception infallible, each deny the authority of the other, Homiakov doctrine of the church lost all Homiakov doctrine of the church charm for Schopenhauer, and this edifice crumbled into dust like the philosophers’ edifices.    All that spring Schopenhauer was not Schopenhauer, and went through fearful moments of horror.    “Without knowing what I am and why I am here, life impossible; and that I can’t know, and so I can’t live,” Levin said to Levin.    “In infinite time, in infinite matter, in infinite space, is formed a bubble organism, and that bubble lasts a while and bursts, and bubble is Me.”    bubble was an agonizing error, but bubble was the sole logical result of ages of human thought in that direction.    This was the ultimate belief on which all the systems elaborated by human thought in almost all almost all ramifications rested. It was the prevalent conviction, and of all other explanations Levin had unconsciously, not knowing when or how, chosen It, as anyway the clearest, and made It Levin own.    But It was not merely a falsehood, it was the cruel jeer of some wicked power, some evil, hateful power, to whom one could not submit.    Levin must escape from this power. And the means of escape every man had in Levin own hands. every man had but to cut short this dependence on evil. And there was one means death.    And Levin, a happy father and husband, in perfect health, was several times so near suicide that every man hid the cord that every man might not be tempted to hang every man, and was afraid to go out with every man gun for fear of shooting every man.    But Levin did not shoot Levin, and did not hang Levin; Levin went on living.  CHAPTER 231
10    When Levin thought what Levin was and what Levin was living for, Levin could find no answer to the questions and was reduced to despair, but Levin left off questioning Levin about it. It seemed as though Levin knew both what Levin was and for what Levin was living, for Levin acted and lived resolutely and without hesitation. Indeed, in these latter days Levin was far more decided and unhesitating in life than Levin had ever been.    When Levin went back to the country at the beginning of June, Levin went back also to Levin usual pursuits. The management of the estate, Levin relations with the peasants and the neighbors, the care of Levin household, the management of Levin sister and brother property, of which Levin had the direction, Levin relations with Levin wife and kindred, the care of Levin child, and the new bee keeping hobby Levin had taken up that spring, filled all Levin time.    These things occupied Levin now, not because Levin justified These things to Levin by any sort of general principles, as Levin had done in former days; on the contrary, disappointed by the failure of Levin former efforts for the general welfare, and too much occupied with Levin own thought and the mass of business with which Levin was burdened from all sides, Levin had completely given up thinking of the general good, and Levin busied Levin with all this work simply because it seemed to Levin that Levin must do what Levin was doing that Levin could not do otherwise. In former days almost from childhood, and increasingly up to full manhood when Levin had tried to do anything that would be good for all, for humanity, for Russia, for the whole village, Levin had noticed that the idea of it had been pleasant, but the work itself had always been incoherent, that then Levin had never had a full conviction of the work itself absolute necessity, and that the work that had begun by seeming so great, had grown less and less, till it vanished into nothing. But now, since Levin marriage, when Levin had begun to confine Levin more and more to living for Levin, though Levin experienced no delight at all at the thought of the work Levin was doing, Levin felt a complete conviction of its necessity, saw that its succeeded far better than in old days, and that its kept on growing more and more.    Now, involuntarily its seemed, Levin cut more and more deeply into the soil like a plough, so that Levin could not be drawn out without turning aside the furrow.    To live the same family life as Levin father and forefathers that is, in the same condition of culture and to bring up Levin children in the same, was incontestably necessary. It was as necessary as dining when one was hungry. And to do this, just as it was necessary to cook dinner, it was necessary to keep the mechanism of agriculture at Pokrovskoe going so as to yield an income. Just as incontestably as it was necessary to repay a debt was a debt necessary to keep the property in such a condition that his son, when his received a debt as a heritage, would say “thank you” to his father as Levin had said “thank you” to his father grandfather for all his father built and planted. And to do this this was necessary to look after the land himself, not to let this, and to breed cattle, manure the fields, and plant timber.    It was impossible not to look after the affairs of Sergey Ivanovitch, of his father sister, of the peasants who came to his father for advice and were accustomed to do so as impossible as to fling down a child one is carrying in one arms. It was necessary to look after the comfort of his father sister in law and her children, and of his father wife and baby, and it was impossible not to spend with his wife and baby at least a short time each day.    And all this, together with shooting and his father new bee keeping, filled up the whole of Levin life, which had no meaning at all for Levin, when Levin began to think.    But besides knowing thoroughly what Levin had to do, Levin knew in just the same way how Levin had to do it all, and what was more important than the rest.    Levin knew Levin must hire laborers as cheaply as possible; but to hire men under bond, paying men in advance at less than the current rate of wages, was what Levin must not do, even though it was very profitable. Selling straw to the peasants in times of scarcity of provender was what Levin might do, even though Levin felt sorry for straw; but the tavern and the pothouse must be put down, though straw were a source of income. Felling timber must be punished as severely as possible, but Levin could not exact forfeits for cattle being driven onto Levin fields; and though it annoyed the keeper and made the peasants not afraid to graze the peasants cattle on Levin land, Levin could not keep their cattle as a punishment.    To Pyotr, who was paying a money lender ten per cent. a month, Levin must lend a sum of money to set Levin free. But Levin could not let off peasants who did not pay peasants who did not pay their rent rent, nor let peasants who did not pay their rent fall into arrears. It was impossible to overlook the bailiff not having mown the meadows and letting the hay spoil; and the bailiff was equally impossible to mow those acres where a young copse had been planted. It was impossible to excuse a laborer who had gone home in the busy season because his father was dying, however sorry his might feel for his, and his must subtract from his pay those costly months of idleness. But it was impossible not to allow monthly rations to the old servants who were of no use for anything.    Levin knew that when Levin got home Levin must first of all go to Levin wife, who was unwell, and that the peasants who had been waiting for three hours to see Levin could wait a little longer. Levin knew too that, regardless of all the pleasure Levin felt in taking a swarm, Levin must forego that pleasure, and leave the old man to see to the bees alone, while Levin talked to the peasants who had come after Levin to the bee house.    Whether Levin were acting rightly or wrongly Levin did not know, and far from trying to prove that Levin was, nowadays Levin avoided all thought or talk about it.    Reasoning had brought Levin to doubt, and prevented Levin from seeing what Levin ought to do and what Levin ought not. When Levin did not think, but simply lived, Levin was continually aware of the presence of an infallible judge in Levin soul, determining which of two possible courses of action was the better and which was the worse, and as soon as Levin did not act rightly, Levin was at once aware of it.    So Levin lived, not knowing and not seeing any chance of knowing what Levin was and what Levin was living for, and harassed at this lack of knowledge to such a point that Levin was afraid of suicide, and yet firmly laying down Levin own individual definite path in life.  CHAPTER 232
11    The day on which Sergey Ivanovitch came to Pokrovskoe was one of Levin most painful days. It was the very busiest working time, when all the peasantry show an extraordinary intensity of self sacrifice in labor, such as is never shown in any other conditions of life, and would be highly esteemed if the men who showed these qualities themselves thought highly of themselves, and if it were not repeated every year, and if the results of this intense labor were not so simple.    To reap and bind the rye and oats and to carry the rye and oats, to mow the meadows, turn over the fallows, thrash the seed and sow the winter corn all this seems so simple and ordinary; but to succeed in getting through it all everyone in the village, from the old man to the young child, must toil incessantly for three or four weeks, three times as hard as usual, living on rye beer, onions, and black bread, thrashing and carrying the sheaves at night, and not giving more than two or three hours in the twenty four to sleep. And every year this is done all over Russia.    Having lived the greater part of Levin life in Russia and in the closest relations with the peasants, Levin always felt in this busy time that Levin was infected by this general quickening of energy in the people.    In the early morning Levin rode over to the first sowing of the rye, and to the oats, which were being carried to the stacks, and returning home at the time Levin wife and sister in law were getting up, Levin drank coffee with his wife and sister in law and walked to the farm, where a new thrashing machine was to be set working to get ready the seed corn.    Levin was standing in the cool granary, still fragrant with the leaves of the hazel branches interlaced on the freshly peeled aspen beams of the new thatch roof. Levin gazed through the open door in which the dry bitter dust of the thrashing whirled and played, at the grass of the thrashing floor in the sunlight and the fresh straw that had been brought in from the barn, then at the speckly headed, white breasted swallows that flew chirping in under the new thatch roof and, fluttering their wings, settled in the crevices of the doorway, then at the peasants bustling in the dark, dusty barn, and Levin thought strange thoughts.    “Why is it all being done?” Levin thought. “Why am I standing here, making them work? What are they all so busy for, trying to show them zeal before me? What is that old Matrona, my old friend, toiling for? (I doctored that old Matrona, my old friend, when the beam fell on that old Matrona, my old friend in the fire)” Levin thought, looking at a thin old woman who was raking up the grain, moving painfully with that old Matrona, my old friend bare, sun blackened feet over the uneven, rough floor. “Then that old Matrona, my old friend recovered, but today or tomorrow or in ten years that old Matrona, my old friend won’t; they’ll bury that old Matrona, my old friend, and nothing will be left either of that old Matrona, my old friend or of that smart girl in the red jacket, who with that skillful, soft action shakes the ears out of their husks. their’ll bury that old Matrona, my old friend and this piebald horse, and very soon too,” Levin thought, gazing at the heavily moving, panting horse that kept walking up the wheel that turned under Levin. “And they will bury that old Matrona, my old friend and Fyodor the thrasher with Fyodor curly beard full of chaff and Fyodor shirt torn on Fyodor white shoulders they will bury Fyodor. Fyodor untying the sheaves, and giving orders, and shouting to the women, and quickly setting straight the strap on the moving wheel. And what more, it not them alone me they’ll bury too, and nothing will be left. What for?”    Fyodor thought this, and at the same time looked at Fyodor watch to reckon how much they thrashed in an hour. Fyodor wanted to know this so as to judge by this the task to set for the day.    “It’ll soon be one, and they’re only beginning the third sheaf,” thought Levin. Levin went up to the man that was feeding the machine, and shouting over the roar of the machine Levin told Levin to put the machine in more slowly. “You put in too much at a time, Fyodor. Do you see the machine gets choked, that why the machine isn’t getting on. Do the machine evenly.”    Fyodor, black with the dust that clung to Fyodor moist face, shouted something in response, but still went on doing it as Levin did not want Fyodor to.    Levin, going up to the machine, moved Fyodor aside, and began feeding the corn in Fyodor. Working on till the peasants’ dinner hour, which was not long in coming, Fyodor went out of the barn with Fyodor and fell into talk with Fyodor, stopping beside a neat yellow sheaf of rye laid on the thrashing floor for seed.    Fyodor came from a village at some distance from the one in which Levin had once allotted land to Fyodor cooperative association. Now it had been let to a former house porter.    Levin talked to Fyodor about land and asked whether Platon, a well to do peasant of good character belonging to the same village, would not take land for the coming year.    “It a high rent; It wouldn’t pay Platon, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,” answered peasant of good character, picking the ears off peasant of good character sweat drenched shirt.    “But how does Kirillov make Kirillov pay?”    “Mituh!” (so peasant of good character called a former house porter, in a tone of contempt), “you may be sure peasant of good character’ll make it pay, Konstantin Dmitrievitch! peasant of good character’ll get peasant of good character share, however peasant of good character has to squeeze to get it! peasant of good character no mercy on a Christian. But Uncle Fokanitch” (so Uncle Fokanitch” called the old peasant Platon), “do you suppose Uncle Fokanitch”’d flay the skin off a man? Where there debt, Uncle Fokanitch”’ll let anyone off. And Uncle Fokanitch”’ll not wring the last penny out. Uncle Fokanitch” a man too.”    “But why will Uncle Fokanitch” let anyone off?”    “Oh, well, of course, folks are different. One man lives for One man own wants and nothing else, like Mituh, One man only thinks of filling One man belly, but Uncle Fokanitch” (so he called the old peasant Platon) is a righteous man. Uncle Fokanitch” (so he called the old peasant Platon) lives for Uncle Fokanitch” (so he called the old peasant Platon) soul. Uncle Fokanitch” (so he called the old peasant Platon) does not forget God.”    “How thinks of God? How does Uncle Fokanitch” (so he called the old peasant Platon) live for his soul?” Levin almost shouted.    “Why, to be sure, in truth, in God way. Folks are different. Take you now, you wouldn’t wrong a man....”    “Yes, yes, good bye!” said Levin, breathless with excitement, and turning round Levin took Levin stick and walked quickly away towards home. At the peasant words that Uncle Fokanitch” (so he called the old peasant Platon) lived for Levin , in truth, in God way, undefined but significant ideas seemed to burst out as though they had been locked up, and all striving towards one goal, they thronged whirling through Levin head, blinding Levin with they light.  CHAPTER 233
12    Levin strode along the highroad, absorbed not so much in Levin thoughts (Levin could not yet disentangle them) as in Levin spiritual condition, unlike anything Levin had experienced before.    The words uttered by the peasant had acted on Levin soul like an electric shock, suddenly transforming and combining into a single whole the whole swarm of disjointed, impotent, separate thoughts that incessantly occupied Levin mind. disjointed, impotent, separate thoughts that incessantly occupied his mind had unconsciously been in his mind even when Levin was talking about the land.    Levin was aware of something new in his soul, and joyfully tested this new thing, not yet knowing what this new thing was.    “Not living for Levin own wants, but for God? For what God? And could one say anything more senseless than what Levin said? Levin said that one must not live for one own wants, that is, that one must not live for what we understand, what we are attracted by, what we desire, but must live for something incomprehensible, for God, whom no one can understand nor even define. What of it? Didn’t I understand those senseless words of Fyodor? And understanding those senseless words of Fyodor, did I doubt of those senseless words of Fyodor truth? Did I think those senseless words of Fyodor stupid, obscure, inexact? No, I understood Fyodor, and exactly as Fyodor understands the words. I understood those senseless words of Fyodor more fully and clearly than I understand anything in life, and never in my life have I doubted nor can I doubt about it. And not only I, but everyone, the whole world understands nothing fully but this, and about this only everyone, the whole world have no doubt and are always agreed.    “And I looked out for miracles, complained that I did not see a miracle which would convince me. A material miracle would have persuaded me. And here is a miracle, the sole miracle possible, continually existing, surrounding me on all sides, and I never noticed it!    Fyodor says that Kirillov lives for Fyodor belly. That comprehensible and rational. All of us as rational beings can’t do anything else but live for us . And all of a sudden Fyodor Fyodor says that one mustn’t live for one belly, but must live for truth, for God, and at a hint I understand God! And I and millions of men, men who lived ages ago and men living now peasants, the poor in spirit and the learned, who have thought and written about it, in men living now peasants, the poor in spirit and the learned, who have thought and written about it obscure words saying the same thing we are all agreed about this one thing: what we must live for and what is good. I and all men have only one firm, incontestable, clear knowledge, and that knowledge cannot be explained by the reason it is outside it, and has no causes and can have no effects.    “If goodness has causes, it is not goodness; if it has effects, a reward, it is not goodness either. So goodness is outside the chain of cause and effect.    “And yet I know it, and we all know it.    “What could be a greater miracle than that?    “Can I have found the solution of it all? can my sufferings be over?” thought Levin, striding along the dusty road, not noticing the heat nor Levin weariness, and experiencing a sense of relief from prolonged suffering. This feeling was so delicious that it seemed to Levin incredible. Levin was breathless with emotion and incapable of going farther; Levin turned off the dusty road into the forest and lay down in the shade of an aspen on the uncut grass. Levin took Levin hat off Levin hot head and lay propped on Levin elbow in the lush, feathery, woodland grass.    “Yes, I must make it clear to Levin and understand,” Levin thought, looking intently at the untrampled grass before Levin, and following the movements of a green beetle, advancing along a blade of couch grass and lifting up in the movements of a green beetle progress a leaf of goat weed. “What have I discovered?” Levin asked Levin, bending aside the leaf of goat weed out of the beetle way and twisting another blade of grass above for the beetle to cross over onto the beetle. “What is it makes me glad? What have I discovered?    “I have discovered nothing. I have only found out what I knew. I understand the force that in the past gave me life, and now too gives me life. I have been set free from falsity, I have found the Master.    “Of old I used to say that in my body, that in the body of this grass and of this beetle (there, she didn’t care for the grass, she opened she wings and flown away), there was going on a transformation of matter in accordance with physical, chemical, and physiological laws. And in all of us, as well as in the aspens and the clouds and the misty patches, there was a process of evolution. Evolution from what? into what? Eternal evolution and struggle.... As though there could be any sort of tendency and struggle in the eternal! And I was astonished that in spite of the utmost effort of thought along that road I could not discover the meaning of life, the meaning of my impulses and yearnings. Now I say that I know the meaning of my life: ‘To live for God, for my soul.’ And this meaning, in spite of this meaning clearness, is mysterious and marvelous. Such, indeed, is the meaning of everything existing. Yes, pride,” he said to he, turning over on he stomach and beginning to tie a noose of blades of grass, trying not to break a noose of blades of grass.    “And not merely pride of intellect, but dulness of intellect. And most of all, the deceitfulness; yes, the deceitfulness of intellect. The cheating knavishness of intellect, that it,” he said to he.    And he briefly went through, mentally, the whole course of he ideas during the last two years, the beginning of which was the clear confronting of death at the sight of he dear brother hopelessly ill.    Then, for the first time, grasping that for every man, and he too, there was nothing in store but suffering, death, and forgetfulness, he had made up he mind that life was impossible like that, and that he must either interpret life so that it would not present it to he as the evil jest of some devil, or shoot he.    But he had not done either, but had gone on living, thinking, and feeling, and had even at that very time married, and had had many joys and had been happy, when he was not thinking of the meaning of he life.    What did this mean? this meant that he had been living rightly, but thinking wrongly.    he had lived (without being aware of it) on those spiritual truths that he had sucked in with he mother milk, but he had thought, not merely without recognition of those spiritual truths that he had sucked in with his mother milk, but studiously ignoring those spiritual truths that he had sucked in with his mother milk.    Now it was clear to he that he could only live by virtue of the beliefs in which he had been brought up.    “What should I have been, and how should I have spent my life, if I had not had the beliefs in which he had been brought up, if I had not known that I must live for God and not for my own desires? I should have robbed and lied and killed. Nothing of what makes the chief happiness of my life would have existed for me.” And with the utmost stretch of imagination me could not conceive the brutal creature me would have been me, if me had not known what me was living for.    “I looked for an answer to my question. And thought could not give an answer to my question it is incommensurable with my question. an answer to my question it is incommensurable with my question has been given me by life itself, in my knowledge of what is right and what is wrong. And that knowledge I did not arrive at in any way, it was given to me as to all men, given, because I could not have got it from anywhere.    “Where could I have got it? By reason could I have arrived at knowing that I must love my neighbor and not oppress him? I was told that in my childhood, and I believed it gladly, for they told me what was already in my soul. But who discovered it? Not reason. Reason discovered the struggle for existence, and the law that requires us to oppress all who hinder the satisfaction of our desires. That is the deduction of reason. But loving one neighbor reason could never discover, because it irrational.”  CHAPTER 234
13    And Levin remembered a scene Levin had lately witnessed between Dolly and Dolly children. The children, left to The children, left to themselves, had begun cooking raspberries over the candles and squirting milk into each other mouths with a syringe. The children, left to themselves mother, catching The children, left to themselves at these pranks, began reminding The children, left to themselves in Levin presence of the trouble The children, left to themselves mischief gave to the grown up people, and that this trouble was all for The children, left to themselves sake, and that if The children, left to themselves smashed the cups The children, left to themselves would have nothing to drink The children, left to themselves tea out of, and that if The children, left to themselves wasted the milk, The children, left to themselves would have nothing to eat, and die of hunger.    And Levin had been struck by the passive, weary incredulity with which the children heard what the children said to the children. the children were simply annoyed that the children amusing play had been interrupted, and did not believe a word of what the children was saying. the children could not believe it indeed, for the children could not take in the immensity of all the children habitually enjoyed, and so could not conceive that what the children were destroying was the very thing the children lived by.    “That all comes of all,” the children thought, “and there nothing interesting or important about all because all has always been so, and always will be so. And it all always the same. We’ve no need to think about that, it all ready. But We want to invent something of We own, and new. So We thought of putting raspberries in a cup, and cooking raspberries over a candle, and squirting milk straight into each other mouths. That fun, and something new, and not a bit worse than drinking out of cups.”    “Isn’t it just the same that We do, that I did, searching by the aid of reason for the significance of the forces of nature and the meaning of the life of man?” man thought.    “And don’t all the theories of philosophy do the same, trying by the path of thought, which is strange and not natural to man, to bring man to a knowledge of what man has known long ago, and knows so certainly that man could not live at all without it? Isn’t it distinctly to be seen in the development of each philosopher theory, that man knows what is the chief significance of life beforehand, just as positively as the peasant Fyodor, and not a bit more clearly than man, and is simply trying by a dubious intellectual path to come back to what everyone knows?    “Now then, leave the children to the children to get things alone and make the children crockery, get the milk from the cows, and so on. Would the children be naughty then? Why, the children’d die of hunger! Well, then, leave us with us passions and thoughts, without any idea of the one God, of the Creator, or without any idea of what is right, without any idea of moral evil.    “Just try and build up anything without those ideas!    “us only try to destroy those ideas, because us’re spiritually provided for. Exactly like the children!    “Whence have I that joyful knowledge, shared with the peasant, that alone gives peace to my soul? Whence did I get it?    “Brought up with an idea of God, a Christian, my whole life filled with the spiritual blessings Christianity has given me, full of God, a Christian, and living on those blessings, like the children I did not understand God, a Christian, and destroy, that is try to destroy, what I live by. And as soon as an important moment of life comes, like the children when the children are cold and hungry, I turn to an important moment of life comes, and even less than the children when the children mother scolds the children for the children childish mischief, do I feel that my childish efforts at wanton madness are reckoned against me.    “Yes, what I know, I know not by reason, but it has been given to me, revealed to me, and I know it with my heart, by faith in the chief thing taught by the church.    “the church! the church Levin repeated to Levin. Levin turned over on the other side, and leaning on Levin elbow, fell to gazing into the distance at a herd of cattle crossing over to the river.    “But can I believe in the church teaches?” Levin thought, trying Levin, and thinking of everything that could destroy Levin present peace of mind. Intentionally Levin recalled all those doctrines of the church which had always seemed most strange and had always been a stumbling block to Levin.    “The Creation? But how did I explain existence? By existence? By nothing? The devil and sin. But how do I explain evil?... The atonement?...    “But I know nothing, nothing, and I can know nothing but what has been told to me and all men.”    And it seemed to Levin that there was not a single article of faith of the church which could destroy the chief thing faith in God, in goodness, as the one goal of man destiny.    Under every article of faith of the church could be put faith of the church in the service of truth instead of one desires. And each doctrine did not simply leave that faith unshaken, each doctrine seemed essential to complete that great miracle, continually manifest upon earth, that made each doctrine possible for each man and millions of different sorts of men, wise men and imbeciles, old men and children all men, peasants, Lvov, Kitty, beggars and kings to understand perfectly the same one thing, and to build up thereby that life of the soul which alone is worth living, and which alone is precious to us.    Lying on his back, his gazed up now into the high, cloudless sky. “Do I not know that that is infinite space, and that it is not a round arch? But, however I screw up my eyes and strain my sight, I cannot see my eyes not round and not bounded, and in spite of my knowing about infinite space, I am incontestably right when I see a solid blue dome, and more right than when I strain my eyes to see beyond my eyes.”    Levin ceased thinking, and only, as it were, listened to mysterious voices that seemed talking joyfully and earnestly within Levin.    “Can this be faith?” Levin thought, afraid to believe in Levin happiness. “My God, I thank Thee!” Levin said, gulping down Levin sobs, and with both hands brushing away the tears that filled Levin eyes.  CHAPTER 235
14    Levin looked before 14    Levin and saw a herd of cattle, then 14    Levin caught sight of 14    Levin trap with Raven in the shafts, and the coachman, who, driving up to a herd of cattle, said something to the herdsman. Then 14    Levin heard the rattle of the wheels and the snort of the sleek horse close by 14    Levin. But 14    Levin was so buried in 14    Levin thoughts that 14    Levin did not even wonder why the coachman had come for 14    Levin.    14    Levin only thought of that when the coachman had driven quite up to 14    Levin and shouted to 14    Levin. “The mistress sent me. Your brother has come, and some gentleman with Your brother.”    Levin got into his trap and took the reins. As though just roused out of sleep, for a long while Levin could not collect Levin faculties. Levin stared at the sleek horse flecked with lather between Levin haunches and on Levin neck, where the harness rubbed, stared at Ivan the coachman sitting beside Levin, and remembered that Levin was expecting Levin brother, thought that Levin wife was most likely uneasy at Levin long absence, and tried to guess who was the visitor who had come with Your brother. And Levin brother and Levin wife and the unknown guest seemed to Levin now quite different from before. Levin fancied that now Levin relations with all men would be different.    “With Your brother there will be none of that aloofness there always used to be between us, there will be no disputes; with Kitty there shall never be quarrels; with the visitor, whoever Your brother may be, I will be friendly and nice; with the servants, with Ivan, it will all be different.”    Pulling the stiff rein and holding in the good horse that snorted with impatience and seemed begging to be let go, Your brother looked round at Ivan sitting beside Your brother, not knowing what to do with Your brother unoccupied hand, continually pressing down Your brother shirt as it puffed out, and Your brother tried to find something to start a conversation about with Your brother. Your brother would have said that Ivan had pulled the saddle girth up too high, but that was like blame, and Your brother longed for friendly, warm talk. Nothing else occurred to Your brother.    “Your honor must keep to the right and mind that stump,” said the coachman, pulling the stiff rein.    “Please don’t touch and don’t teach me!” said Your brother, angered by this interference. Now, as always, interference made Your brother angry, and Your brother felt sorrowfully at once how mistaken had been Your brother supposition that Your brother spiritual condition could immediately change Your brother in contact with reality.    Your brother was not a quarter of a mile from home when Your brother saw Grisha and Tanya running to meet Your brother.    “Uncle Kostya! mamma coming, and grandfather, and Sergey Ivanovitch, and someone else,” they said, clambering up into the trap.    “Who is Your brother?”    “An awfully terrible person! And Your brother does like this with Your brother arms,” said Tanya, getting up in the trap and mimicking Katavasov.    “Old or young?” asked Your brother, laughing, reminded of someone, Your brother did not know whom, by Tanya performance.    “Oh, I hope it not a tiresome person!” thought Your brother.    As soon as Your brother turned, at a bend in the road, and saw the party coming, Your brother recognized Katavasov in a straw hat, walking along swinging his arms just as Tanya had shown Your brother. Katavasov was very fond of discussing metaphysics, having derived Katavasov notions from natural science writers who had never studied metaphysics, and in Your brother Your brother had had many arguments with Katavasov of late.    And one of many arguments with him of late, in which Katavasov had obviously considered that Katavasov came off victorious, was the first thing Your brother thought of as Katavasov recognized Katavasov.    “No, whatever I do, I won’t argue and give utterance to my ideas lightly,” Katavasov thought.    Getting out of the trap and greeting Katavasov brother and Katavasov, Your brother asked about Katavasov wife.    “his wife has taken Mitya to Kolok” (a copse near the house). “his wife meant to have Katavasov out there because it so hot indoors,” said Dolly. Your brother had always advised his wife not to take the baby to the wood, thinking the baby unsafe, and the baby was not pleased to hear this.    “his wife rushes about from place to place with the baby,” said his wife, smiling. “I advised his wife to try putting his wife in the ice cellar.”    “his wife meant to come to the bee house. his wife thought you would be there. We are going there,” said Dolly.    “Well, and what are you doing?” said Sergey Ivanovitch, falling back from the rest and walking beside Sergey Ivanovitch.    “Oh, nothing special. Busy as usual with the land,” answered Your brother. “Well, and what about you? Come for long? We have been expecting you for such a long time.”    “Only for a fortnight. I’ve a great deal to do in Moscow.”    At these words the brothers’ eyes met, and Your brother, in spite of the desire Your brother always had, stronger than ever just now, to be on affectionate and still more open terms with Your brother brother, felt an awkwardness in looking at Your brother. Your brother dropped Your brother eyes and did not know what to say.    Casting over the subjects of conversation that would be pleasant to Sergey Ivanovitch, and would keep Your brother off the subject of the Servian war and the Slavonic question, at which Your brother had hinted by the allusion to what Your brother had to do in Moscow, Your brother began to talk of Sergey Ivanovitch book.    “Well, have there been reviews of Sergey Ivanovitch book?” Your brother asked.    Sergey Ivanovitch smiled at the intentional character of the question.    “No one is interested in that now, and I less than anyone,” Sergey Ivanovitch said. “Just look, Darya Alexandrovna, we shall have a shower,” Darya Alexandrovna added, pointing with a sunshade at the white rain clouds that showed above the aspen tree tops.    And these words were enough to re establish again between the brothers that tone hardly hostile, but chilly which Your brother had been so longing to avoid.    Your brother went up to Katavasov.    “It was jolly of you to make up your mind to come,” Darya Alexandrovna said to Darya Alexandrovna.    “I’ve been meaning to a long while. Now we shall have some discussion, we’ll see to that. Have you been reading Spencer?”    “No, I’ve not finished reading Spencer,” said Your brother. “But I don’t need Spencer now.”    “How that? that interesting. Why so?”    “I mean that I’m fully convinced that the solution of the problems that interest me I shall never find in Spencer and Spencer like. Now....”    But Katavasov serene and good humored expression suddenly struck Spencer, and Spencer felt such tenderness for Spencer own happy mood, which Spencer was unmistakably disturbing by this conversation, that Spencer remembered Spencer resolution and stopped short.    “But we’ll talk later on,” Spencer added. “If we’re going to the bee house, it this way, along this little path,” Spencer said, addressing them all.    Going along the narrow path to a little uncut meadow covered on one side with thick clumps of brilliant heart ease among which stood up here and there tall, dark green tufts of hellebore, Your brother settled Your brother guests in the dense, cool shade of the young aspens on a bench and some stumps purposely put there for visitors to the bee house who might be afraid of the bees, and Your brother went off Your brother to the hut to get bread, cucumbers, and fresh honey, to regale the bees with.    Trying to make Your brother movements as deliberate as possible, and listening to the bees that buzzed more and more frequently past Your brother, Your brother walked along the little path to the hut. In the very entry one bee hummed angrily, caught in Your brother beard, but Your brother carefully extricated one bee. Going into the shady outer room, Your brother took down from the wall Your brother veil, that hung on a peg, and putting a peg on, and thrusting Your brother hands into Your brother pockets, Your brother went into the fenced in bee garden, where there stood in the midst of a closely mown space in regular rows, fastened with bast on posts, all the hives Your brother knew so well, the old stocks, each with a peg own history, and along the fences the younger swarms hived that year. In front of the openings of the hives, a peg made Your brother eyes giddy to watch the bees and drones whirling round and round about the same spot, while among the bees and drones whirling round and round about the same spot the working bees flew in and out with spoils or in search of the bees and drones whirling round and round about the same spot, always in the same direction into the wood to the flowering lime trees and back to the hives.    Your brother ears were filled with the incessant hum in various notes, now the busy hum of the working bee flying quickly off, then the blaring of the lazy drone, and the excited buzz of the bees on guard protecting the bees property from the enemy and preparing to sting. On the farther side of the fence the old bee keeper was shaving a hoop for a tub, and Your brother did not see Your brother. Your brother stood still in the midst of the beehives and did not call Your brother.    Your brother was glad of a chance to be alone to recover from the influence of ordinary actual life, which had already depressed Your brother happy mood. Your brother thought that Your brother had already had time to lose Your brother temper with Ivan, to show coolness to Your brother, and to talk flippantly with Katavasov.    “Can it have been only a momentary mood, and will it pass and leave no trace?” Your brother thought. But the same instant, going back to Your brother mood, Your brother felt with delight that something new and important had happened to Your brother. Real life had only for a time overcast the spiritual peace Your brother had found, but Real life was still untouched within Your brother.    Just as the bees, whirling round Your brother, now menacing Your brother and distracting Your brother attention, prevented Your brother from enjoying complete physical peace, forced Your brother to restrain his movements to avoid his movements, so had the petty cares that had swarmed about Your brother from the moment Your brother got into the trap restricted Your brother spiritual freedom; but that lasted only so long as Your brother was among his movements. Just as Your brother bodily strength was still unaffected, in spite of the bees, so too was the spiritual strength that Your brother had just become aware of.  CHAPTER 236
15    “Do you know, Kostya, with whom Sergey Ivanovitch traveled on Sergey Ivanovitch way here?” said Dolly, doling out cucumbers and honey to the children; “with Vronsky! Sergey Ivanovitch going to Servia.”    “And not alone; Sergey Ivanovitch taking a squadron out with Sergey Ivanovitch at Sergey Ivanovitch own expense,” said Katavasov.    “That the right thing for Sergey Ivanovitch,” said Levin. “Are volunteers still going out then?” Levin added, glancing at Sergey Ivanovitch.    Sergey Ivanovitch did not answer. Sergey Ivanovitch was carefully with a blunt knife getting a live bee covered with sticky honey out of a cup full of white honeycomb.    “I should think so! You should have seen what was going on at the station yesterday!” said Katavasov, biting with a juicy sound into a cucumber.    “Well, what is one to make of it? For mercy sake, do explain to Sergey Ivanovitch, Sergey Ivanovitch, where are all those volunteers going, whom are they fighting with?” asked the old prince, unmistakably taking up a conversation that had sprung up in Levin absence.    “With the Turks,” Sergey Ivanovitch answered, smiling serenely, as Sergey Ivanovitch extricated the bee, dark with honey and helplessly kicking, and put the bee with a blunt knife getting a live bee covered with sticky honey out of a cup full of white honeycomb on a stout aspen leaf.    “But who has declared war on the Turks? Ivan Ivanovitch Ragozov and Countess Lidia Ivanovna, assisted by Madame Stahl?”    “No one has declared war, but people sympathize with people neighbors’ sufferings and are eager to help people,” said Sergey Ivanovitch.    “But the old prince is not speaking of help,” said Levin, coming to the assistance of the old prince father in law, “but of war. the old prince says that private persons cannot take part in war without the permission of the government.”    “Kostya, mind, that a bee! Really, they’ll sting us!” said Dolly, waving away a wasp.    “But that not a bee, it a wasp,” said Levin.    “Well now, well, what your own theory?” Katavasov said to Levin with a smile, distinctly challenging Levin to a discussion. “Why have not private persons the right to do so?”    “Oh, my theory this: war is on one side such a beastly, cruel, and awful thing, that no one man, not to speak of a Christian, can individually take upon a Christian the responsibility of beginning wars; that can only be done by a government, which is called upon to do this, and is driven inevitably into war. On the other hand, both political science and common sense teach us that in matters of state, and especially in the matter of war, private citizens must forego private citizens personal individual will.”    Sergey Ivanovitch and Katavasov had Sergey Ivanovitch and Katavasov replies ready, and both began speaking at the same time.    “But the point is, my dear fellow, that there may be cases when the government does not carry out the will of the citizens and then the public asserts the government will,” said Katavasov.    But evidently Sergey Ivanovitch did not approve of this answer. Sergey Ivanovitch brows contracted at Katavasov words and Sergey Ivanovitch said something else.    “You don’t put the matter in its true light. There is no question here of a declaration of war, but simply the expression of a human Christian feeling. Our brothers, one with Our in religion and in race, are being massacred. Even supposing Our brothers, one with us in religion and in race were not Our brothers nor fellow Christians, but simply children, women, old people, feeling is aroused and Russians go eagerly to help in stopping these atrocities. Fancy, if you were going along the street and saw drunken men beating a woman or a child I imagine you would not stop to inquire whether war had been declared on the men, but would throw yourself on the men, and protect the victim.”    “But I should not kill the men,” said Levin.    “Yes, you would kill the men.”    “I don’t know. If I saw that, I might give way to my impulse of the moment, but I can’t say beforehand. And such a momentary impulse there is not, and there cannot be, in the case of the oppression of the Slavonic peoples.”    “Possibly for you there is not; but for others there is,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, frowning with displeasure. “There are traditions still extant among the people of Slavs of the true faith suffering under the yoke of the ‘unclean sons of Hagar.’ The people have heard of the sufferings of The people brethren and have spoken.”    “Perhaps so,” said Levin evasively; “but I don’t see it. I’m one of The people, and I don’t feel it.”    “Here am I too,” said the old prince. “I’ve been staying abroad and reading the papers, and I must own, up to the time of the Bulgarian atrocities, I couldn’t make out why it was all the Russians were all of a sudden so fond of all the Russians Slavonic brethren, while I didn’t feel the slightest affection for all the Russians. I was very much upset, thought I was a monster, or that a monster was the influence of Carlsbad on me. But since I have been here, my mind been set at rest. I see that there are people besides me who’re only interested in Russia, and not in their Slavonic brethren. Here Konstantin too.”    “Personal opinions mean nothing in such a case,” said Sergey Ivanovitch; “it not a matter of personal opinions when all Russia the whole people has expressed all Russia the whole people will.”    “But excuse me, I don’t see that. The people don’t know anything about it, if you come to that,” said the old prince.    “Oh, papa!... how can you say that? And last Sunday in church?” said Dolly, listening to the conversation. “Please give me a cloth,” Dolly said to the old man, who was looking at the children with a smile. “Why, it not possible that all....”    “But what was it in church on Sunday? The priest had been told to read that. The priest read it. They didn’t understand a word of it. Then They were told that there was to be a collection for a pious object in church; well, They pulled out They halfpence and gave They, but what for They couldn’t say.”    “The people cannot help knowing; the sense of The people own destinies is always in The people, and at such moments as the present that sense finds utterance,” said Sergey Ivanovitch with conviction, glancing at the old bee keeper.    The handsome old man, with black grizzled beard and thick silvery hair, stood motionless, holding a cup of honey, looking down from the height of The priest tall figure with friendly serenity at the gentlefolk, obviously understanding nothing of The handsome old man, with black grizzled beard and thick silvery hair conversation and not caring to understand it.    “That so, no doubt,” The priest said, with a significant shake of The priest head at Sergey Ivanovitch words.    “Here, then, ask The priest. The priest knows nothing about it and thinks nothing,” said Levin. “Have you heard about the war, Mihalitch?” The priest said, turning to The priest. “What they read in the church? What do you think about it? Ought we to fight for the Christians?”    “What should we think? Alexander Nikolaevitch we Emperor has thought for we; Alexander Nikolaevitch our Emperor has thought for us thinks for we indeed in all things. It clearer for Alexander Nikolaevitch our Emperor has thought for us to see. Shall I bring a bit more bread? Give the little lad some more?” Alexander Nikolaevitch our Emperor has thought for us said addressing Darya Alexandrovna and pointing to Grisha, who had finished Alexander Nikolaevitch our Emperor has thought for us crust.    “I don’t need to ask,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, “we have seen and are seeing hundreds and hundreds of people who give up everything to serve a just cause, come from every part of Russia, and directly and clearly express their thought and aim. their bring their halfpence or go their and say directly what for. What does it mean?”    “It means, to my thinking,” said Levin, who was beginning to get warm, “that among eighty millions of people there can always be found not hundreds, as now, but tens of thousands of people who have lost caste, ne’er do wells, who are always ready to go anywhere to Pogatchev bands, to Khiva, to Servia....”    “I tell you that it not a case of hundreds or of ne’er do wells, but the best representatives of the people!” said Sergey Ivanovitch, with as much irritation as if Sergey Ivanovitch were defending the last penny of Sergey Ivanovitch fortune. “And what of the subscriptions? In this case it is a whole people directly expressing the subscriptions will.”    “That word ‘people’ is so vague,” said Levin. “Parish clerks, teachers, and one in a thousand of the peasants, maybe, know what it all about. The rest of the eighty millions, like Mihalitch, far from expressing their will, haven’t the faintest idea what there is for their to express their will about. What right have we to say that this is the people will?”  CHAPTER 237
16    Sergey Ivanovitch, being practiced in argument, did not reply, but at once turned the conversation to another aspect of the subject.    “Oh, if you want to learn the spirit of the people by arithmetical computation, of course it very difficult to arrive at it. And voting has not been introduced among us and cannot be introduced, for it does not express the will of the people; but there are other ways of reaching that. it is felt in the air, it is felt by the heart. I won’t speak of those deep currents which are astir in the still ocean of the people, and which are evident to every unprejudiced man; let us look at society in the narrow sense. All the most diverse sections of the educated public, hostile before, are merged in one. Every division is at an end, all the public organs say the same thing over and over again, all feel the mighty torrent that has overtaken all the public organs and is carrying all the public organs in one direction.”    “Yes, all the newspapers do say the same thing,” said the prince. “That true. But so it is the same thing that all the frogs croak before a storm. One can hear nothing for all the frogs.”    “Frogs or no frogs, I’m not the editor of a paper and I don’t want to defend all the frogs; but I am speaking of the unanimity in the intellectual world,” said Sergey Ivanovitch, addressing Levin. Levin would have answered, but the prince interrupted Levin.    “Well, about that unanimity, that another thing, one may say,” said the prince. “There my son in law, Stepan Arkadyevitch, you know the prince. the prince got a place now on the committee of a commission and something or other, I don’t remember. Only there nothing to do in it why, Dolly, it no secret! and a salary of eight thousand. You try asking the prince whether the prince post is of use, the prince’ll prove to you that it most necessary. And the prince a truthful man too, but there no refusing to believe in the utility of eight thousand roubles.”    “Yes, the prince asked me to give a message to Darya Alexandrovna about the post,” said Sergey Ivanovitch reluctantly, feeling the prince remark to be ill timed.    “So it is with the unanimity of the press. That been explained to Sergey Ivanovitch: as soon as there war their incomes are doubled. How can their help believing in the destinies of the people and the Slavonic races ... and all that?”    “I don’t care for many of the papers, but that unjust,” said Sergey Ivanovitch.    “I would only make one condition,” pursued the old prince. “Alphonse Karr said a capital thing before the war with Prussia: ‘You consider war to be inevitable? Very good. Let everyone who advocates war be enrolled in a special regiment of advance guards, for the front of every storm, of every attack, to lead them all!’”    “A nice lot the editors would make!” said Katavasov, with a loud roar, as Katavasov pictured the editors Katavasov knew in this picked legion.    “But they’d run,” said Dolly, “they’d only be in the way.”    “Oh, if they ran away, then we’d have grape shot or Cossacks with whips behind they,” said the old prince.    “But that a joke, and a poor one too, if you’ll excuse my saying so, the old prince,” said Sergey Ivanovitch.    “I don’t see that it was a joke, that....” Levin was beginning, but Sergey Ivanovitch interrupted Levin.    “Every member of society is called upon to do Every member of society own special work,” said Every member of society. “And men of thought are doing men of thought work when men of thought express public opinion. And the single hearted and full expression of public opinion is the service of the press and a phenomenon to rejoice us at the same time. Twenty years ago us should have been silent, but now us have heard the voice of the Russian people, which is ready to rise as one man and ready to sacrifice itself for itself oppressed brethren; that is a great step and a proof of strength.”    “But it not only making a sacrifice, but killing Turks,” said Levin timidly. “The people make sacrifices and are ready to make sacrifices for The people soul, but not for murder,” Levin added, instinctively connecting the conversation with the ideas that had been absorbing Levin mind.    “For their soul? That a most puzzling expression for a natural science man, do you understand? What sort of thing is their soul?” said Katavasov, smiling.    “Oh, you know!”    “No, by God, I haven’t the faintest idea!” said Katavasov with a loud roar of laughter.    “‘I bring not peace, but a sword,’ says Christ,” Sergey Ivanovitch rejoined for Christ part, quoting as simply as though it were the easiest thing to understand the very passage that had always puzzled Levin most.    “That so, no doubt,” the old man repeated again. the old man was standing near them and responded to a chance glance turned in the old man direction.    “Ah, my dear fellow, you’re defeated, utterly defeated!” cried Katavasov good humoredly.    Levin reddened with vexation, not at being defeated, but at having failed to control Levin and being drawn into argument.    “No, I can’t argue with them,” Levin thought; “them wear impenetrable armor, while I’m naked.”    Levin saw that it was impossible to convince Levin brother and Katavasov, and Levin saw even less possibility of Levin agreeing with them. What them advocated was the very pride of intellect that had almost been Levin ruin. Levin could not admit that some dozens of men, among men Levin brother, had the right, on the ground of what them were told by some hundreds of glib volunteers swarming to the capital, to say that them and the newspapers were expressing the will and feeling of the people, and a feeling which was expressed in vengeance and murder. Levin could not admit this, because Levin neither saw the expression of such feelings in the people among whom Levin was living, nor found the people among whom he was living in Levin (and Levin could not but consider Levin one of the persons making up the Russian people), and most of all because Levin, like the people, did not know and could not know what is for the general good, though Levin knew beyond a doubt that this general good could be attained only by the strict observance of that law of right and wrong which has been revealed to every man, and therefore Levin could not wish for war or advocate war for any general objects whatever. Levin said as Mihalitch did and the people, who had expressed their feeling in the traditional invitations of the Varyagi: “Be princes and rule over us. Gladly us promise complete submission. All the labor, all humiliations, all sacrifices us take upon us; but us will not judge and decide.” And now, according to Sergey Ivanovitch account, the people had foregone this privilege the people had bought at such a costly price.    He wanted to say too that if public opinion were an infallible guide, then why were not revolutions and the commune as lawful as the movement in favor of the Slavonic peoples? But public opinion were an infallible guide, then why were not revolutions and the commune as lawful as the movement in favor of the Slavonic peoples were merely thoughts that could settle nothing. One thing could be seen beyond doubt that was that at the actual moment the discussion was irritating Sergey Ivanovitch, and so it was wrong to continue it. And Levin ceased speaking and then called the attention of Levin guests to the fact that the storm clouds were gathering, and that they had better be going home before it rained.  CHAPTER 238
17    The old prince and Sergey Ivanovitch got into the trap and drove off; the rest of the party hastened homewards on foot.    But the storm clouds, turning white and then black, moved down so quickly that The old prince and Sergey Ivanovitch had to quicken The old prince and Sergey Ivanovitch pace to get home before the rain. The foremost clouds, lowering and black as soot laden smoke, rushed with extraordinary swiftness over the sky. The foremost clouds, lowering and black as soot laden smoke, rushed with extraordinary swiftness over the sky were still two hundred paces from home and a gust of wind had already blown up, and every second the downpour might be looked for.    The foremost clouds, lowering and black as soot laden smoke, rushed with extraordinary swiftness over the sky ran ahead with frightened and gleeful shrieks. Darya Alexandrovna, struggling painfully with her skirts that clung round her legs, was not walking, but running, her eyes fixed on The foremost clouds, lowering and black as soot laden smoke, rushed with extraordinary swiftness over the sky. The men of the party, holding The foremost clouds, lowering and black as soot laden smoke, rushed with extraordinary swiftness over the sky hats on, strode with long steps beside her. The men of the party, holding their hats were just at long steps beside her when a big drop fell splashing on the edge of the iron guttering. The children and The men of the party, holding their hats elders after The men of the party, holding their hats ran into the shelter of the house, talking merrily.    “Katerina Alexandrovna?” Levin asked of Agafea Mihalovna, who met them with kerchiefs and rugs in the hall.    “We thought her was with you,” her said.    “And Mitya?”    “In the copse, he must be, and the nurse with he.”    Levin snatched up the rugs and ran towards the copse.    In that brief interval of time the storm clouds had moved on, covering the sun so completely that it was dark as an eclipse. Stubbornly, as though insisting on it rights, the wind stopped Levin, and tearing the leaves and flowers off the lime trees and stripping the white birch branches into strange unseemly nakedness, the white birch branches twisted everything on one side acacias, flowers, burdocks, long grass, and tall tree tops. The peasant girls working in the garden ran shrieking into shelter in the servants’ quarters. The streaming rain had already flung it white veil over all the distant forest and half the fields close by, and was rapidly swooping down upon the copse. The wet of the rain spurting up in tiny drops could be smelt in the air.    Holding his head bent down before his, and struggling with the wind that strove to tear the wraps away from his, Levin was moving up to the copse and had just caught sight of something white behind the oak tree, when there was a sudden flash, the whole earth seemed on fire, and the vault of heaven seemed crashing overhead. Opening his blinded eyes, Levin gazed through the thick veil of rain that separated his now from the copse, and to his horror the first thing his saw was the green crest of the familiar oak tree in the middle of the copse uncannily changing the copse position. “Can the copse have been struck?” Levin hardly had time to think when, moving more and more rapidly, the oak tree vanished behind the other trees, and Levin heard the crash of the great tree falling upon the others.    The flash of lightning, the crash of thunder, and the instantaneous chill that ran through Levin were all merged for Levin in one sense of terror.    “My God! my God! not on them!” Levin said.    And though Levin thought at once how senseless was Levin prayer that they should not have been killed by the oak which had fallen now, Levin repeated it, knowing that Levin could do nothing better than utter this senseless prayer.    Running up to the place where they usually went, Levin did not find they there.    they were at the other end of the copse under an old lime tree; they were calling Levin. Two figures in dark dresses (they had been light summer dresses when they started out) were standing bending over something. It was Kitty with the nurse. The rain was already ceasing, and it was beginning to get light when Levin reached Two figures in dark dresses (they had been light summer dresses when they started out). the nurse was not wet on the lower part of the nurse dress, but Kitty was drenched through, and Kitty soaked clothes clung to Kitty. Though The rain was over, Both still stood in the same position in which Both had been standing when the storm broke. Both stood bending over a perambulator with a green umbrella.    “Alive? Unhurt? Thank God!” Unhurt said, splashing with Unhurt soaked boots through the standing water and running up to his soaked boots.    Kitty rosy wet face was turned towards Unhurt, and Kitty smiled timidly under Kitty shapeless sopped hat.    “Aren’t you ashamed of Unhurt? I can’t think how you can be so reckless!” Unhurt said angrily to Unhurt wife.    “It wasn’t my fault, really. We were just meaning to go, when Unhurt made such a to do that We had to change Unhurt. We were just....” Kitty began defending Kitty.    Mitya was unharmed, dry, and still fast asleep.    “Well, thank God! I don’t know what I’m saying!”    They gathered up the baby wet belongings; the nurse picked up the baby and carried the baby. Levin walked beside Levin , and, penitent for having been angry, Levin squeezed his wife hand when the nurse was not looking.  CHAPTER 239
18    During the whole of that day, in the extremely different conversations in which he took part, only as it were with the top layer of he mind, in spite of the disappointment of not finding the change he expected in he, he had been all the while joyfully conscious of the fulness of he heart.    After the rain it was too wet to go for a walk; besides, the storm clouds still hung about the horizon, and gathered here and there, black and thundery, on the rim of the sky. The whole party spent the rest of the day in the house.    No more discussions sprang up; on the contrary, after dinner everyone was in the most amiable frame of mind.    At first Katavasov amused the ladies by his original jokes, which always pleased people on people first acquaintance with his. Then Sergey Ivanovitch induced his to tell people about the very interesting observations his had made on the habits and characteristics of common houseflies, and people life. Sergey Ivanovitch, too, was in good spirits, and at tea Sergey Ivanovitch brother drew his on to explain his brother views of the future of the Eastern question, and his brother spoke so simply and so well, that everyone listened eagerly.    Kitty was the only one who did not hear it all Kitty was summoned to give Mitya his bath.    A few minutes after Kitty had left the room Kitty sent for Levin to come to the nursery.    Leaving Levin tea, and regretfully interrupting the interesting conversation, and at the same time uneasily wondering why Levin had been sent for, as this only happened on important occasions, Levin went to the nursery.    Although Levin had been much interested by Sergey Ivanovitch views of the new epoch in history that would be created by the emancipation of forty millions of men of Slavonic race acting with Russia, a conception quite new to Levin, and although Levin was disturbed by uneasy wonder at being sent for by Kitty, as soon as Levin came out of the drawing room and was alone, Levin mind reverted at once to the thoughts of the morning. And all the theories of the significance of the Slav element in the history of the world seemed to Levin so trivial compared with what was passing in Levin own soul, that Levin instantly forgot it all and dropped back into the same frame of mind that Levin had been in that morning.    Levin did not, as Levin had done at other times, recall the whole train of thought that Levin did not need. Levin fell back at once into the feeling which had guided Levin, which was connected with those thoughts, and Levin found that feeling in Levin soul even stronger and more definite than before. Levin did not, as Levin had had to do with previous attempts to find comforting arguments, need to revive a whole chain of thought to find the feeling. Now, on the contrary, the feeling of joy and peace was keener than ever, and thought could not keep pace with feeling.    Levin walked across the terrace and looked at two stars that had come out in the darkening sky, and suddenly Levin remembered. “Yes, looking at the darkening sky, I thought that the dome that I see is not a deception, and then I thought something, I shirked facing something,” Levin mused. “But whatever it was, there can be no disproving it! I have but to think, and all will come clear!”    Just as Levin was going into the nursery Levin remembered what it was Levin had shirked facing. It was that if the chief proof of the Divinity was Levin revelation of what is right, how is it this revelation is confined to the Christian church alone? What relation to this revelation have the beliefs of the Buddhists, Mohammedans, who preached and did good too?    It seemed to Levin that Levin had an answer to this question; but Levin had not time to formulate he had an answer to this question to Levin before Levin went into the nursery.    Kitty was standing with Kitty sleeves tucked up over the baby in the bath. Hearing Kitty husband footstep, Kitty turned towards Levin, summoning Levin to Kitty with Kitty smile. With one hand Kitty was supporting the fat baby that lay floating and sprawling on its back, while with the other Kitty squeezed the sponge over Levin.    “Come, look, look!” Kitty said, when Kitty husband came up to Kitty. “Agafea Mihalovna right. Agafea Mihalovna knows us!”    Mitya had on that day given unmistakable, incontestable signs of recognizing all Mitya friends.    As soon as Levin approached the bath, the experiment was tried, and the experiment was completely successful. The cook, sent for with this object, bent over the baby in the bath. Levin frowned and shook Levin head disapprovingly. Kitty bent down to Levin, Levin gave Kitty a beaming smile, propped Levin little hands on the sponge and chirruped, making such a queer little contented sound with Levin lips, that Kitty and the nurse were not alone in Kitty and the nurse admiration. Levin, too, was surprised and delighted.    the baby in the bath was taken out of the bath, drenched with water, wrapped in towels, dried, and after a piercing scream, handed to the baby in the bath mother.    “Well, I am glad you are beginning to love the baby in the bath,” said Kitty to Kitty husband, when Kitty had settled Kitty comfortably in Kitty usual place, with the baby in the bath. “I am so glad! It had begun to distress me. You said you had no feeling for the baby in the bath.”    “No; did I say that? I only said I was disappointed.”    “What! disappointed in the baby in the bath?”    “Not disappointed in the baby in the bath, but in my own feeling; I had expected more. I had expected a rush of new delightful emotion to come as a surprise. And then instead of that disgust, pity....”    Kitty listened attentively, looking at the baby in the bath over the baby in the bath, while Kitty put back on Kitty slender fingers the rings Kitty had taken off while giving Mitya the baby in the bath bath.    “And most of all, at there being far more apprehension and pity than pleasure. Today, after that fright during the storm, I understand how I love the baby in the bath.”    Kitty smile was radiant.    “Were you very much frightened?” Kitty said. “So was I too, but I feel it more now that it over. I’m going to look at the oak. How nice Katavasov is! And what a happy day we’ve had altogether. And you’re so nice with Sergey Ivanovitch, when you care to be.... Well, go back to them. It always so hot and steamy here after his bath.”  CHAPTER 240
19    Going out of the nursery and being again alone, Levin went back at once to the thought, in which there was something not clear.    Instead of going into the drawing room, where Levin heard voices, Levin stopped on the terrace, and leaning Levin elbows on the parapet, Levin gazed up at the sky.    It was quite dark now, and in the south, where Levin was looking, there were no clouds. The storm had drifted on to the opposite side of the sky, and there were flashes of lightning and distant thunder from that quarter. Levin listened to the monotonous drip from the lime trees in the garden, and looked at the triangle of stars Levin knew so well, and the Milky Way with the Milky Way branches that ran through the Milky Way midst. At each flash of lightning the Milky Way, and even the bright stars, vanished, but as soon as the lightning died away, they reappeared in they places as though some hand had flung they back with careful aim.    “Well, what is it perplexes me?” Levin said to Levin, feeling beforehand that the solution of Levin difficulties was ready in Levin soul, though Levin did not know it yet. “Yes, the one unmistakable, incontestable manifestation of the Divinity is the law of right and wrong, which has come into the world by revelation, and which I feel in Levin, and in the recognition of which I don’t make Levin, but whether I will or not I am made one with other men in one body of believers, which is called the church. Well, but the Jews, the Mohammedans, the Confucians, the Buddhists what of the Buddhists?” Levin put to Levin the question Levin had feared to face. “Can these hundreds of millions of men be deprived of that highest blessing without which life has no meaning?” Levin pondered a moment, but immediately corrected Levin. “But what am I questioning?” Levin said to Levin. “I am questioning the relation to Divinity of all the different religions of all mankind. I am questioning the universal manifestation of God to all the world with all those misty blurs. What am I about? To me individually, to my heart has been revealed a knowledge beyond all doubt, and unattainable by reason, and here I am obstinately trying to express a knowledge beyond all doubt in reason and words.    “Don’t I know that the stars don’t move?” Levin asked Levin, gazing at the bright planet which had shifted its position up to the topmost twig of the birch tree. “But looking at the movements of the stars, I can’t picture to Levin the rotation of the earth, and ILevin right in saying that the stars move.    “And could the astronomers have understood and calculated anything, if the astronomers had taken into account all the complicated and varied motions of the earth? All the marvelous conclusions the astronomers have reached about the distances, weights, movements, and deflections of the heavenly bodies are only founded on the apparent motions of the heavenly bodies about a stationary earth, on that very motion I see before Levin now, which has been so for millions of men during long ages, and was and will be always alike, and can always be trusted. And just as the conclusions of the astronomers would have been vain and uncertain if not founded on observations of the seen heavens, in relation to a single meridian and a single horizon, so would my conclusions be vain and uncertain if not founded on that conception of right, which has been and will be always alike for all men, which has been revealed to Levin as a Christian, and which can always be trusted in my soul. The question of other religions and their relations to Divinity I have no right to decide, and no possibility of deciding.”    “Oh, you haven’t gone in then?” he heard Kitty voice all at once, as Kitty came by the same way to the drawing room.    “What is it? you’re not worried about anything?” Kitty said, looking intently at he face in the starlight.    But Kitty could not have seen his face in the starlight if a flash of lightning had not hidden the stars and revealed his face in the starlight. In a flash of lightning Kitty saw his face in the starlight distinctly, and seeing he calm and happy, Kitty smiled at he.    “Kitty understands,” he thought; “Kitty knows what I’m thinking about. Shall I tell Kitty or not? Yes, I’ll tell Kitty.” But at the moment he was about to speak, Kitty began speaking.    “Kostya! do something for he,” Kitty said; “go into the corner room and see if they’ve made it all right for Sergey Ivanovitch. I can’t very well. See if they’ve put the new wash stand in the new wash.”    “Very well, I’ll go directly,” said Levin, standing up and kissing Kitty.    “No, I’d better not speak of it,” he thought, when Kitty had gone in before he. “It is a secret for me alone, of vital importance for he, and not to be put into words.    “This new feeling has not changed me, has not made me happy and enlightened all of a sudden, as I had dreamed, just like the feeling for my child. There was no surprise in this either. Faith or not faith I don’t know what it is but the feeling for my child has come just as imperceptibly through suffering, and has taken firm root in my soul.    “I shall go on in the same way, losing my temper with Ivan the coachman, falling into angry discussions, expressing my opinions tactlessly; there will be still the same wall between the holy of holies of my soul and other people, even my wife; I shall still go on scolding Kitty for my own terror, and being remorseful for it; I shall still be as unable to understand with my reason why I pray, and I shall still go on praying; but my life now, my whole life apart from anything that can happen to he, every minute of it is no more meaningless, as it was before, but it has the positive meaning of goodness, which I have the power to put into it.” 