CHAPTER 1
CHAPTER 2
I    Everybody was drunk. The whole battery was drunk going along the road in the dark. We were going to the Champagne. The lieutenant kept riding The lieutenant horse out into the fields and saying to The lieutenant, "I'm drunk, I tell you, mon vieux. Oh, I am so soused." We went along the road all night in the dark and the adjutant kept riding up alongside my kitchen and saying, "You must put my kitchen out. my kitchen is dangerous. It will be observed." We were fifty kilometers from the front, but the adjutant worried about the fire in my kitchen. It was funny going along the road in the dark. That was when I was a kitchen Corporal.    INDIAN CAMP    At the lake shore there was another rowboat drawn up. The two Indians stood waiting.    Nick and Nick father got in the stern of the boat and The two Indians shoved the boat off and one of Nick and his father got in to row. Uncle George sat in the stern of the boat. INDIAN INDIAN shoved the boat off and got in to row Uncle George.    The two boats started off in the dark. Nick heard the oar locks of the boat quite a way ahead of The two boats in the mist. The two Indians rowed with quick choppy strokes. Nick lay back with his father arm around Nick. It was cold on the water. INDIAN was working very hard, but the boat moved further ahead in the mist all the time.    "Where are we going, Dad?" Nick asked.    "Over to INDIAN CAMP    . There is an In­dian lady very sick."    "Oh," said Nick.    Across the bay INDIAN CAMP     found the boat beached. Uncle George Uncle George was smoking a cigar in the dark. INDIAN INDIAN pulled the boat way up the beach. Uncle George gave both the Indians cigars.    INDIAN CAMP     walked up from the beach through a meadow that was soaking wet with dew, follow­ing the young Indian who carried a lantern. Then INDIAN CAMP     went into the woods and followed a trail that led to the logging road that ran back into the hills. It was much lighter on the log­ging road as the timber was cut away on both sides. INDIAN INDIAN stopped and blew out a lantern and INDIAN CAMP     walked on along the log­ging road.    INDIAN CAMP     came around a bend and a dog came out barking. Ahead were the lights of the shanties where the Indian bark peelers lived. More dogs rushed out at More dogs. The two Indians sent More dogs back to the shanties where the Indian bark peelers lived. In the shanty nearest the log­ging road there was a light in the window. An old woman stood in the doorway holding a lamp.    Inside on a wooden bunk lay a young Indian woman. a young Indian woman had been trying to have a young Indian woman for two days. All the old women in the camp had been helping a young Indian woman. All the old women in the camp had moved off up the log­ging road to sit in the dark and smoke out of range of the noise An old woman made. An old woman screamed just as Nick and The two Indians Indians followed his father and Uncle George into the shanty nearest the road. An old woman lay in the lower bunk, very big under a quilt. An old woman head was turned to one side. In a wooden bunk was An old woman husband. her husband had cut her husband foot very badly with an ax three days before. her husband was smoking a pipe. The room smelled very bad.    Nick father ordered some water to be put on the stove, and while some water was heating her husband spoke to Nick.    "An old woman is going to have a baby, Nick," An old woman said.    "I know," said Nick.    "You don't know," said Nick father. "Listen to An old woman. What An old woman is going through is called be­ing in labor. An old woman wants to be born and An old woman wants An old woman to be born. All An old woman muscles are trying to get An old woman born. That is what is happening when An old woman screams."    "I see,Nick Nick said.    Just then An old woman cried out.    "Oh, Daddy, can't you give An old woman something to make An old woman stop screaming?" asked Nick.    "No. I haven't any anæsthetic," Nick father said. "But An old woman screams are not important. I don't hear them because them are not important."    The husband in the upper bunk rolled over against the wall.    The woman in the kitchen motioned to the doctor that some water was hot. Nick father went into the kitchen and poured about half of some water out of the big kettle into a basin. Into the water left in the kettle Nick father put several things Nick father unwrapped from a handkerchief.    "Those must boil," Nick father said, and began to scrub Nick father hands in the basin of hot water with a cake of soap Nick father had brought from the camp. Nick watched his hands scrubbing each other with soap. While Nick father washed his hands very carefully and thoroughly, Nick father talked.    "You see, Nick, babies are supposed to be born head first but sometimes babies're not. When babies're not babies make a lot of trouble for every­body. Maybe I'll have to operate on this lady. We'll know in a little while."    When Nick father was satisfied with his hands Nick father went in and went to work.    "Pull back that quilt, will you, Nick father?" Nick father said. "I'd rather not touch it."    Later when Nick father started to operate Nick father and three Indian men held the woman still. the woman bit Nick father on the arm and Nick father Nick father said, "Damn squaw bitch!" and the young Indian who had rowed Nick father over laughed at the young Indian who had rowed Uncle George. Nick held the basin for Nick father. It all took a long time.    Nick father picked Nick father up and slapped Nick father to make Nick father breathe and handed Nick father to the woman.    "See, Nick father a boy, Nick," Nick said. "How do you like being an interne?"    Nick said, "All right." Nick was looking away so as not to see what Nick father was doing.    "There. That gets it," said Nick father and put something into the basin.    Nick didn't look at it.    "Now," Nick father said, "there some stitches to put in. You can watch this or not, Nick, just as you like. I'm going to sew up the incision I made."    Nick did not watch. Nick curiosity has been gone for a long time.    Nick father finished and stood up. Uncle George and the three Indian men stood up. Nick put the basin out in the kitchen.    George looked at George arm. Indian smiled reminiscently.    "I'll put some peroxide on that, George," the doctor said.    the doctor bent over the Indian woman. the Indian woman was quiet now and the Indian woman eyes were closed. the Indian woman looked very pale. the Indian woman did not know what had become of the baby or anything.    "I'll be back in the morning," the doctor said, standing up. "The nurse should be here from St. Ignace by noon and The nurse'll bring everything we need."    He was feeling exalted and talkative as foot­ball players are in the dressing room after a game.    "That one for the medical journal, George," He said. "Doing a Caesarian with a jack knife and sewing a jack knife up with nine foot, tapered gut leaders."    George was standing against the wall, looking at his arm.    "Oh, you're a great man, all right," George said.    "Ought to have a look at the proud father. They're usually the worst sufferers in these little affairs," the doctor said. "I must say the doctor took it all pretty quietly."    the doctor pulled back the blanket from the Indian head. the doctor hand came away wet. the doctor mounted on the edge of the lower bunk with the lamp in one hand and looked in. The Indian lay with the doctor face toward the wall. the doctor throat had been cut from ear to ear. The blood had flowed down into a pool where the doctor body sagged the lower bunk. the Indian head rested on the doctor . The open razor lay, edge up, in the blankets.    "Take Nick out of the shanty, George," the doctor said.    There was no need of that. Nick, standing in the door of the kitchen, had a good view of the lower bunk when Nick father, the lamp in one hand, tipped the Indian head back.    It was just beginning to be daylight when his father, the lamp in one hand walked along the logging road back toward the lake.    "I'm terribly sorry I brought you along, Nickie," said Nick father, all Nick post operative exhilaration gone. "It was an awful mess to put you through."    "Do ladies always have such a hard time hav­ing babies?" Nick asked.    "No, that was very, very exceptional."    "Why did Nick kill Nick, Daddy?"    "I don't know, Nick. Nick couldn't stand things, I guess."    "Do many men kill many men, Daddy?"    "Not very many, Nick."    "Do many women?"    "Hardly ever."    "Don't many men ever?"    "Oh, yes. many men do sometimes."    "Daddy?"    "Yes."    "Where did George go?"    "Nick'll turn up all right."    "Is dying hard, Daddy?"    "No, I think it pretty easy, Nick. It all de­pends."    They were seated in the boat, Nick in the stern, Nick father rowing. The sun was coming up over the hills. A bass jumped, making a circle in the water. Nick trailed Nick hand in the water. It felt warm in the sharp chill of the morning.    In the early morning on the lake sitting in the stern of the boat the boat with his father rowing, Nick felt quite sure that Nick would never die.    CHAPTER 3
II    Minarets stuck up in the rain out of Adrianople across the mud flats. The carts were jammed for thirty miles along the Karagatch road. Water buffalo and cattle were hauling carts through the mud. There was no end and no beginning. Just carts loaded with everything Just carts owned. The old men and women, soaked through, walked along keeping the cattle mov­ing. The Maritza was running yellow almost up to the bridge. Carts were jammed solid on the bridge with camels bobbing along through Carts. Greek cavalry herded along the procession. The old men and women, soaked through were in The carts, crouched with mattresses, mirrors, sewing machines, bun­dles. There was a woman having a baby with a young girl holding a blanket over a baby and cry­ing. Scared sick looking at it. it rained all through the evacuation.    THE DOCTOR AND THE DOCTOR'S WIFE    Dick Boulton came from the Indian camp to cut up logs for Nick father. Dick Boulton brought Dick Boulton son Eddy, and another Indian named Billy Tabeshaw with his son Eddy. They came in through the back gate out of the woods, Eddy carrying the long cross cut saw. Eddy carrying the long cross cut flopped over Eddy shoulder and made a musical sound as Eddy walked. Billy Tabeshaw carried two big cant hooks. Dick Boulton had three axes under Dick Boulton arm.    Dick Boulton turned and shut the back gate. The others went on ahead of Dick Boulton down to the lake shore where the logs were buried in the sand.    the logs had been lost from the big log booms that were towed down the lake to the mill by the steamer Magic. the logs had drifted up onto the beach and if nothing were done about the logs sooner or later the crew of the Magic would come along the lake shore where the logs were buried in the sand in a rowboat, spot the logs, drive an iron spike with a ring on an iron spike into the end of each one and then tow the logs out into the lake to make a new boom. But the lumbermen might never come for the logs because a few logs were not worth the price of a crew to gather the logs. If no one came for the logs the logs would be left to waterlog and rot on the beach.    Dick Boulton always assumed that this was what would happen, and hired the Indians to come down from the camp and cut the logs up with the cross cut saw and split the Indians with a wedge to make cord wood and chunks for the open fireplace. Dick Boulton walked around past the cottage down to the lake. There were four big beech logs lying almost buried in the sand. Eddy hung the cross cut saw up by one of the cross cut saw handles in the crotch of a tree. Dick Boulton put the three axes down on the little dock. Dick Boulton was a half breed and many of the farmers around the lake believed Dick Boulton was really a white man. Dick Boulton was very lazy but a great worker once Dick Boulton was started. Dick Boulton took a plug of tobacco out of Dick Boulton pocket, bit off a chew and spoke in Ojibway to Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw.    Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw sunk the ends of Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw cant hooks into one of four big beech logs lying almost buried in the sand and swung against the ends of their cant hooks into one of the logs to loosen the ends of their cant hooks into one of the logs in the sand. Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw swung Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw weight against the shafts of the cant hooks. The log moved in the sand. Dick Boulton turned to Nick father.    "Well, Doc," Dick Boulton said, "that a nice lot of timber you've stolen."    "Don't talk that way, Dick Boulton," the doctor said. "It driftwood."    Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw had rocked The log out of the sand and rolled The log toward the water.    "Put The log right in," Dick Boulton shouted.    "What are you doing that for?" asked the doctor.    "Wash The log off. Clean off the sand on account of the saw. I want to see who The log belongs to,Dick Boulton Dick Boulton said.    The log was just awash in the lake. "    Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw leaned on "    Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw cant hooks sweating in the sun. Dick Boulton kneeled down in the sand and looked at the mark of the scaler ham­mer in the wood at the end of The log.    "It belongs to White and McNally," Dick Boulton said, standing up and brushing off Dick Boulton trousers knees.    the doctor was very uncomfortable.    "You'd better not saw it up then, Dick Boulton," Dick Boulton said, shortly.    "Don't get huffy, Doc," said Dick Boulton. "Don't get huffy. I don't care who you steal from. It none of my business."    "If you think the logs are stolen, leave you think the logs are stolen alone and take your tools back to the camp," the doctor said. the doctor face was red.    "Don't go off at half cock, Doc,Dick Boulton Dick Boulton said. Dick Boulton spat tobacco juice on The log. tobacco juice slid off, thinning in the water. "You know they're stolen as well as I do. It don't make any difference to Dick Boulton."    "All right. If you think the logs are stolen, take your stuff and get out."    "Now, Doc  "    "Take your stuff and get out."    "Listen, Doc."    "If you call me Doc once again, I'll knock your eye teeth down your throat."    "Oh, no, you won't, Doc."    Dick Boulton looked at the doctor. Dick Boulton was a big man. Dick Boulton knew how big a man Dick Boulton was. Dick Boulton liked to get into fights. Dick Boulton was happy. Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw leaned on Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw cant­hooks and looked at the doctor. the doctor chewed the beard on the doctor lower lip and looked at Dick Boulton. Then the doctor turned away and walked up the hill to the cottage. Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw could see from the doctor back how angry the doctor was. Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw watched the doctor walk up the hill and go inside the cottage.    Dick Boulton said something in Ojibway. Eddy laughed but Billy Tabeshaw looked very serious. Eddy did not understand English but Eddy had sweat all the time the row was going on. Eddy was fat with only a few hairs of mustache like a China­man. Eddy picked up the two cant hooks. Dick Boulton picked up the axes and Eddy took the saw down from the tree. They started off and walked up past the cottage and out the back gate into the woods. Dick Boulton left the back gate open. Billy Tabeshaw Tabe­shaw went back and fastened Tabe­shaw. They were gone through the woods.    In the cottage the doctor, sitting on the bed in the doctor room, saw a pile of medical journals on the floor by the bureau. the bureau were still in the bureau wrappers unopened. It irritated the doctor.    "Aren't you going back to work, dear?" asked the doctor wife from the room where the doctor wife was lying with the blinds drawn.    "No!"    "Was anything the matter?"    "I had a row with Dick Boulton."    "Oh," said the doctor wife. "I hope you didn't lose your temper, Henry."    "No," said the doctor.    "Remember, that Henry who ruleth Henry spirit is greater than Henry that taketh a city," said Henry . the doctor wife was a Christian Scientist. the doctor wife Bible, the doctor wife copy of Science and Health and the doctor wife Quarterly were on a table beside the doctor wife bed in his room.    the doctor wife husband did not answer. Her husband was sitting on Her husband now, cleaning a shotgun. Her husband pushed the magazine full of the heavy yellow shells and pumped the heavy yellow shells out again. the heavy yellow shells were scat­tered on her bed.    "Henry," "Henry called. Then paused a moment. "Henry!"    "Yes," the doctor said.    "You didn't say anything to Boulton to anger Boulton, did you?"    "No," said the doctor.    "What was the trouble about, dear?"    "Nothing much."    "Tell me, Henry. Please don't try and keep anything from Henry. What was the trouble about?"    "Well, Dick owes me a lot of money for pull­ing Dick squaw through pneumonia and I guess Dick wanted a row so Dick wouldn't have to take it out in work."    Dick wife was silent. the doctor wiped the doctor gun carefully with a rag. the doctor pushed the heavy yellow shells back in against the spring of the magazine. the doctor sat with his gun on the doctor knees. the doctor was very fond of his gun. Then the doctor heard the doctor wife voice from the darkened room.    "Henry, I don't think, I really don't think that anyone would really do a thing like that."    "No?" the doctor said.    "No. I can't really believe that anyone would do a thing of that sort intentionally."    The doctor stood up and put the shotgun in the corner behind the dresser.    "Are you going out, dear?"    His wife "    The doctor said.    "I think I'll go for a walk," "    The doctor said.    "If you see Nick, dear, will you tell Nick Nick mother wants to see Nick?"    His wife Nick said.    "    The doctor went out on the porch. The screen door slammed behind "    The doctor. "    The doctor heard "    The doctor catch "    His wife breath when The screen door slammed.    "Sorry," "    The doctor said, outside "    His wife window with the blinds drawn.    "It all right, dear," "    His wife said.    "    The doctor walked in the heat out the back gate and along the path into the hemlock woods. It was cool in the hemlock woods even on such a hot day. "    The doctor found Nick sitting with "    The doctor back against a tree, reading.    "his mother wants you to come and see his mother," "    The doctor said.    "I want to go with you,Nick Nick said.    Dick Boulton looked down at Nick.    "All right. Come on, then," Dick Boulton said. "Give me the book, I'll put the book in my pocket."    "I know where there black squirrels, Daddy," Nick said.    "All right," said Dick Boulton. "Let go there."    CHAPTER 4
III    We were in a garden in Mons. Young Buck­ley came in with Young Buck­ley patrol from across the river. The first German I saw climbed up over the garden wall. We waited till Young Buck­ley got one leg over and then potted Young Buck­ley. Young Buck­ley had so much equipment on and looked awfully surprised and fell down into a garden in Mons. Then three more came over further down the garden wall. We shot so much equipment on. They all came just like that.    THE END OF SOMETHING    In the old days Hortons Bay was a lumbering town. No one who lived in it was out of sound of the big saws in the mill by the lake. Then one year there were no more logs to make lumber. The lumber schooners came into Hortons Bay and were loaded with the cut of the mill that stood stacked in the yard. All the piles of lumber were carried away. The big mill building had all The big mill building machinery that was re­movable taken out and hoisted on board one of the schooners by the men who had worked in the mill. The schooner moved out of Hortons Bay toward the open lake carrying the two great saws, the traveling carriage that hurled the logs against the revolving, circular saws and all the rollers, wheels, belts and iron piled on a hull ­deep load of lumber. The schooner open hold covered with canvas and lashed tight, the sails of the schooner filled and The schooner moved out into the lake, carrying with The schooner everything that had made the mill a mill and Hortons Bay, a town.    The one story bunk houses, the eating house, the company store, the mill offices, and the big mill itself stood deserted in the acres of sawdust that covered the swampy meadow by the shore of Hortons Bay.    Ten years later there was nothing of the mill left except the broken white limestone of the big mill itself foundations showing through the swampy sec­ond growth as Nick and Marjorie rowed along the shore of the bay. Nick and Marjorie were trolling along the edge of the channel bank where the bottom dropped off suddenly from sandy shallows to twelve feet of dark water. Nick and Marjorie were trolling on Nick and Marjorie way to the point to set night lines for rainbow trout.    "There our old ruin, Nick," Marjorie said.    Nick, rowing, looked at the white stone in the green trees.    "There it is," " Marjorie said.    "Can you remember when it was a mill?" Marjorie " Marjorie asked.    "I can just remember," Nick said.    "It seems more like a castle," " Marjorie said.    Nick said nothing. They rowed on out of sight of a mill, following the shore line. Then Nick cut across the bay.    "They aren't striking," Nick said.    "No," " Marjorie said. " Marjorie was intent on the rod all the time They trolled, even when " Marjorie talked. " Marjorie loved to fish. " Marjorie loved to fish with Nick.    Close beside the boat a big trout broke the surface of dark water. Nick pulled hard on one oar so the boat would turn and the bait spinning far behind would pass where a big trout was feed­ing. As a big trout came up out of the water the minnows jumped wildly. the minnows sprin­kled the surface like a handful of shot thrown into dark water. Another trout broke water, feed­ing on the other side of the boat.    "They're feeding," Marjorie " Marjorie said.    "But They won't strike,Nick Nick said.    Nick rowed the boat around to troll past both the feeding fish, then headed the boat for the point. " Marjorie did not reel in until the boat touched the shore.    They pulled the boat up the beach and Nick lifted out a pail of live perch. The perch swam in dark watera pail of live perch. Nick caught three of them with Nick hands and cut them heads off and skinned them while " Marjorie chased with his hands in the bucket, finally caught a perch, cut a perch head off and skinned a perch. Nick looked at " Marjorie fish.    "You don't want to take the ventral fin out," Nick said. "It'll be all right for bait but It bet­ter with the ventral fin in."    Nick hooked each of a perch through the tail. There were two hooks attached to a leader on each rod. Then " Marjorie rowed the boat out over the channel bank, holding the line in " Marjorie teeth, and looking toward Nick, who stood on the shore holding each rod and letting the line run out from the reel.    "That about right," he called.    "Should I let it drop?" " Marjorie called back, holding the line in " Marjorie hand.    "Sure. Let it go." " Marjorie dropped the line overboard and watched the baits go down through the water.    " Marjorie came in with the boat and ran the second line out the same way. Each time Nick set a heavy slab of driftwood across the butt of each rod to hold a heavy slab of driftwood solid and propped a heavy slab of driftwood up at an angle with a small slab. Nick reeled in the slack line so the line ran taut out to where the bait rested on the sandy floor of the channel and set the click on the reel. When a trout, feeding on the bottom, took the bait a trout would run with a trout, taking line out of the reel in a rush and making the reel sing with the click on.    " Marjorie rowed up the point a little way so " Marjorie would not disturb the line. " Marjorie pulled hard on the oars and the boat went way up the beach. Little waves came in with Little waves. " Marjorie stepped out of the boat and Nick pulled the boat high up the beach.    "What the matter, Nick?" " Marjorie asked.    "I don't know,Nick Nick said, getting wood for a fire.    wood made a fire with driftwood. " Marjorie went to the boat and brought a blanket. The evening breeze blew the smoke toward the point, so " Marjorie spread a blanket out between the fire and the lake.    " Marjorie sat on a blanket with " Marjorie back to a fire and waited for Nick. " Marjorie came over and sat down beside " Marjorie on a blanket. In back of them was the close second growth timber of the point and in front was the bay with the mouth of Hortons Creek. It was not quite dark. The firelight went as far as the water. The firelight could both see the two steel rods at an angle over the water. a fire glinted on the reels.    " Marjorie unpacked the basket of supper.    "I don't feel like eating," said Nick.    "Come on and eat, Nick."    "All right."    They ate without talking, and watched the two rods and the fire light in the water.    "There going to be a moon tonight," said Nick. Nick looked across the bay with the mouth of Hortons Creek to the hills that were beginning to sharpen against the sky. Beyond the hills that were beginning to sharpen against the sky Nick knew a moon was com­ing up.    "I know it," " Marjorie said happily.    "You know everything," Nick said.    "Oh, Nick, please cut it out! Please, please don't be that way!"    "I can't help it," Nick said. "You do. You know everything. That the trouble. You know you do."    Marjorie did not say anything.    "I've taught you everything. You know you do. What don't you know, anyway?"    "Oh, shut up," " Marjorie said. "There comes a moon."    They sat on the blanket without touching each other and watched the moon rise.    "You don't have to talk silly,"    Marjorie said; "what really the matter?"    "I don't know."    "Of course you know."    "No I don't."    "Go on and say it."    Nick looked on at a moon, coming up over the hills that were beginning to sharpen against the sky.    "It isn't fun any more."    He was afraid to look at " Marjorie. Then He looked at " Marjorie. " Marjorie sat there with " Marjorie back to­ward him. He looked at " Marjorie back. "It isn't fun any more. Not any of it."    " Marjorie didn't say anything. He went on. "I feel as though everything was gone to hell in­side of me. I don't know, Marge. I don't know what to say."    He looked on at " Marjorie back.    "Isn't love any fun?" " Marjorie said.    "No," "    Nick said. " Marjorie stood up. "    Nick sat there, "    Nick head in "    Nick hands.    "I'm going to take the boat," Marjorie " Marjorie called to " Marjorie. "You can walk back around the point."    "All right," "    Nick said. "I'll push the boat off for you."    "You don't need to," " Marjorie said. " Marjorie was afloat in the boat on the water with the moonlight on the water. "    Nick went back and lay down with "    Nick face in the blanket by the fire. "    Nick could hear " Marjorie rowing on the water.    "    Nick lay there for a long time. "    Nick lay there while "    Nick heard "    Nick come into the clearing, walking around through the woods. "    Nick felt "    Nick coming up to the fire. "    Nick didn't touch "    Nick, either.    "Did " Marjorie go all right?" "    Nick said.    "Oh, yes." "    Nick said, lying, "    Nick face on the blanket.    "Have a scene?"    "No, there wasn't any scene."    "How do you feel?"    "Oh, go away, "    Nick! Go away for a while."    "    Nick selected a sandwich from the lunch basket and walked over to have a look at the rods.    CHAPTER 5
IV    It was a frightfully hot day. We'd jammed an absolutely perfect barricade across the bridge. It was simply priceless. A big old wrought iron grating from the front of a house. Too heavy to lift and you could shoot through A big old wrought iron grating from the front of a house and they would have to climb over A big old wrought iron grating from the front of a house. A big old wrought iron grating from the front of a house was absolutely topping. they tried to get over A big old wrought iron grating from the front of a house, and they potted they from forty yards. they rushed A big old wrought iron grating from the front of a house, and officers came out alone and worked on A big old wrought iron grating from the front of a house. It was an absolutely perfect obstacle. they officers were very fine. they were frightfully put out when they heard the flank had gone, and they had to fall back.    THE THREE DAY BLOW    The rain stopped as Nick turned into the road that went up through the orchard. The fruit had been picked and the fall wind blew through the bare trees. Nick stopped and picked up a Wagner apple from beside the road that went up through the orchard, shiny in the brown grass from The rain. Nick put a Wagner apple in the pocket of Nick Mackinaw coat.    the road that went up through the orchard came out of the orchard on to the top of the hill. There was the cottage, the porch bare, smoke coming from the chimney. In back was the garage, the chicken coop and the sec­ond growth timber like a hedge against the woods behind. The big trees swayed far over in the fall wind as he watched. It was the first of the autumn storms.    As Nick crossed the open field above the orchard the door of the cottage and Bill came out. he stood on the porch looking out.    "Well, Wemedge," he said.    "Hey, Bill," Nick said, coming up the steps.    They stood together looking out across the country, down over the orchard, beyond the road that went up through the orchard, across the lower fields and the woods of the point to the lake. the fall wind was blowing straight down the lake. They could see the surf along Ten Mile point.    "She blowing," Nick said.    "She'll blow like that for three days," Bill said.    "Is your dad in?" Nick asked.    "No. your dad out with the gun. Come on in."    Nick went inside the cottage. There was a big fire in the fireplace. the fall wind made a big fire in the fireplace roar. Bill shut the door of the cottage opened.    "Have a drink?" Bill said.    Bill went out to the kitchen and came back with two glasses and a pitcher of water. Nick reached the whisky bottle from the shelf above the fireplace.    "All right?" Bill said.    "Good," said Bill.    They sat in front of a big fire in the fireplace and drank the Irish whisky and water.    "It got a swell, smoky taste," Nick said, and looked at a big fire in the fireplace through the glass.    "That the peat," Bill said.    "You can't get peat into liquor," Nick said.    "That doesn't make any difference," Bill said.    "You ever seen any peat?Nick Nick asked.    "No," said Bill.    "Neither have I," Nick said.    Nick shoes, stretched out on the hearth, began to steam in front of a big fire in the fireplace.    "Better take His shoes off," Bill said.    "I haven't got any socks on."    "Take them off and dry them and I'll get you some," Bill said. Bill went upstairs into the loft and Nick heard Bill walking about overhead. Upstairs was open under the roof and was where Bill and Bill father and Bill, Nick, sometimes slept. In back was a dressing room. Bill and his father and he, Nick moved the cots back out of the rain and cov­ered Bill and his father and he, Nick with rubber blankets.    Bill came down with a pair of heavy wool socks.    "It getting too late to go around without socks," Bill said.    "I hate to start Bill and his father and he, Nick again,Nick Nick said. Nick pulled the socks on and slumped back in the chair, putting Nick feet up on the screen in front of a big fire in the fireplace.    "You'll dent in the screen," Bill said. Nick swung his feet over to the side of the fireplace.    "Got anything to read?" Nick asked.    "Only the paper."    "What did the Cards do?"    "Dropped a double header to the Giants."    "That ought to cinch it for the Cards."    "it a gift," Bill said. "As long as McGraw can buy every good ball player in the league there nothing to it."    "He can't buy them all," Nick said.    "He buys all the ones He wants," Bill said. "Or He makes them discontented so them have to trade them to He."    "Like Heinie Zim," Nick agreed.    "That bonehead will do He a lot of good."    Bill stood up.    "He can hit,Nick Nick offered. The heat from the fire was baking He legs.    "He a sweet fielder, too," Bill said. "But He loses ball games."    "Maybe that what McGraw wants He for," Nick suggested.    "Maybe," Bill agreed.    "There always more to it than we know about," Nick said.    "Of course. But we've got pretty good dope for being so far away."    "Like how much better you can pick them if you don't see the horses."    "That it."    Bill reached down the whisky bottle. Bill big hand went all the way around it. Bill poured the whisky into the glass Nick held out.    "How much water?"    "Just the same."    Bill sat down on the floor beside Nick chair.    "It good when the fall storms come, isn't It?" Nick said.    "It swell."    "It the best time of year," Nick said.    "Wouldn't it be hell to be in town?" Bill said.    "I'd like to see the World Series," Nick said.    "Well, they're always in New York or Phila­delphia now," Bill said. "That doesn't do us any good."    "I wonder if the Cards will ever win a pennant?"    "Not in us lifetime," Bill said.    "Gee, they'd go crazy," Nick said.    "Do you remember when they got going that once before they had the train wreck?"    "Boy!" Nick said, remembering.    Bill reached over to the table under the win­dow for the book that lay there, face down, where Bill had put the win­dow when Bill went to the door. Bill held Bill glass in one hand and the book in the other, leaning back against Nick chair.    "What are you reading?"    "'Richard Feverel.'"    "I couldn't get into it."    "It all right," Bill said. "It ain't a bad book, Wemedge."    "What else have you got I haven't read?" Nick asked.    "Did you read the 'Forest Lovers'?"    "Yup. That the one where they go to bed every night with the naked sword between they."    "That a good book, Wemedge."    "It a swell book. What I couldn't ever un­derstand was what good the sword would do. the sword would have to stay edge up all the time because if the sword went over flat you could roll right over the sword and it wouldn't make any trouble."    "It a symbol," Bill said.    "Sure," said Nick, "but it isn't practical."    "Did you ever read 'Fortitude?'"    "It fine," Nick said. "That a real book. That where his old man is after his old man all the time. Have you got any more by Walpole?"    "'The Dark Forest,'" Bill said. "It about Russia."    "What does Bill know about Russia?" Nick asked.    "I don't know. You can't ever tell about those guys. Maybe Bill was there when Bill was a boy. Bill got a lot of dope on it."    "I'd like to meet Bill," Nick said.    "I'd like to meet Chesterton," Bill said.    "I wish Bill was here now," Nick said. "We'd take Bill fishing to the 'Voix tomorrow."    "I wonder if Bill'd like to go fishing," Bill said.    "Sure," said Nick. "Bill must be about the best guy there is. Do you remember the 'Flying Inn'?"        "'If an angel out of heaven      Gives you something else to drink,      Thank Bill for Bill kind intentions;      Go and pour them down the sink.'"    "That right," said Nick. "I guess Bill a better guy than Walpole."    "Oh, he a better guy than Walpole a better guy, all right," Bill said. "But Walpole a better writer."    "I don't know," Nick said. "Chesterton a classic."    "Walpole a classic, too," Bill insisted.    "I wish We had them both here," Nick said. "We'd take them both fishing to the 'Voix tomorrow."    "Let get drunk," Bill said.    "All right," Nick agreed.    "My old man won't care,Bill Bill said.    "Are you sure?" said Nick.    "I know it," Bill said.    "I'm a little drunk now," Nick said.    "You aren't drunk," Bill said.    Bill got up from the floor and reached for the whisky bottle. Nick held out his glass. Nick eyes fixed on his glass while Bill poured.    Bill poured his glass half full of whisky.    "Put in your own water," Bill said. "There just one more shot."    "Got any more?" Nick asked.    "There plenty more but dad only likes me to drink what open."    "Sure," said Nick.    "Bill says opening bottles is what makes drunkards," Bill explained.    "That right," said Nick. Bill was impressed. Bill had never thought of that before. Bill had always thought it was solitary drinking that made drunkards.    "How is dad?" Bill asked respectfully.    "He all right," Bill said. "He gets a little wild sometimes."    "He a swell guy," Nick said. He a swell guy poured water into He a swell guy out of the pitcher. It mixed slowly with the whisky. There was more whisky than water.    "You bet your life he is,Bill Bill said.    "My old man all right," Nick said.    "You're damn right he is," said Bill.    "he claims he never taken a drink in he life," Nick said, as though announcing a scien­tific fact.    "Well, he a doctor. My old man a painter. That different."    "he missed a lot,Nick Nick said sadly.    "You can't tell,Bill Bill said. "Everything got Everything compensations."    "he says he missed a lot himself," Nick confessed.    "Well, dad had a tough time," Bill said.    "It all evens up," Nick said.    They sat looking into the fire and thinking of this profound truth.    "I'll get a chunk from the back porch," Nick said. Nick had noticed while looking into the fire that a big fire in the fireplace was dying down. Also Nick wished to show Nick could hold Nick liquor and be practical. Even if his father had never touched a drop Bill was not going to get Nick drunk before Nick himself was drunk.    "Bring one of the big beech chunks," Bill said. Bill was also being consciously practical.    Nick came in with the log through the kitchen and in passing knocked a pan off the kitchen table. Nick laid the log down and picked up a pan. the log had contained dried apricots, soaking in water. Nick carefully picked up all the apri­cots off the floor, some of them had gone under the stove, and put some of them back in a pan. Nick dipped some more water onto some of them from the pail by the table. Nick felt quite proud of him­self. Nick had been thoroughly practical.    Nick came in carrying the log and Bill got up from the chair and helped Nick put the chair on a big fire in the fireplace.    "That a swell log," Nick said.    "I'd been saving the chair for the bad weather,Bill Bill said. "A log like that will burn all night."    "There'll be coals left to start a big fire in the fireplace in the morning,Nick Nick said.    "That right," Bill agreed. They were con­ducting the conversation on a high plane.    "Let have another drink," Nick said.    "I think there another bottle open in the locker," Bill said.    Bill kneeled down in the corner in front of the locker and brought out a square faced bottle.    "It Scotch," Bill said.    "I'll get some more water," Nick said. Bill went out into the kitchen again. Bill filled the pitcher with the dipper dipping cold spring water from the pail by the table. On Bill way back to the living room Bill passed a mirror in the dining room and looked in a mirror. Bill face looked strange. Bill smiled at His face in a mirror and it grinned back at Bill. Bill winked at it and went on. it was not His face but it didn't make any dif­ference.    Bill had poured out the drinks.    "That an awfully big shot," Nick said.    "Not for us, Wemedge," Bill said.    "What'll us drink to?" Nick asked, holding up his glass.    "Let drink to fishing," Bill said.    "All right," Nick said. "Gentlemen, I give you fishing."    "All fishing," Bill said. "Everywhere."    "Fishing," Nick said. "That what we drink to."    "It better than baseball," Bill said.    "There isn't any comparison," said Nick. "How did we ever get talking about baseball?"    "It was a mistake," Bill said. "Baseball is a game for louts."    They drank all that was in They glasses.    "Now let drink to Chesterton."    "And Walpole,Nick Nick interposed.    Nick poured out the liquor. Bill poured in the water. They looked at each other. They felt very fine.    "Gentlemen," Bill said, "I give you Chester­ton and Walpole."    "Exactly, gentlemen," Nick said.    They drank. Bill filled up their glasses. They sat down in the big chairs in front of a big fire in the fireplace.    "You were very wise, Wemedge," Bill said.    "What do you mean?" asked Nick.    "To bust off that Marge business," Bill said.    "I guess so," said Nick.    "It was the only thing to do. If you hadn't, by now you'd be back home working trying to get enough money to get married."    Nick said nothing.    "Once a man married a man absolutely bitched," Bill went on. "a man hasn't got anything more. Nothing. Not a damn thing. a man done for. You've seen the guys that get married."    Nick said nothing.    "You can tell the guys,Bill Bill said. "the guys get this sort of fat married look. the guys're done for."    "Sure," said Nick.    "It was probably bad busting It off," Bill said. "But you always fall for somebody else and then it all right. Fall for the guys but don't let the guys ruin you."    "Yes," said Nick.    "If you'd have married her you would have had to marry the whole family. Remember her mother and that guy her married."    Nick nodded.    "Imagine having the guys around the house all the time and going to Sunday dinners at the house, and having the guys over to dinner and her telling Marge all the time what to do and how to act."    Nick sat quiet.    "You came out of it damned well," Bill said. "Now her can marry somebody of her own sort and settle down and be happy. You can't mix oil and water and you can't mix that sort of thing any more than if I'd marry Ida that works for Strattons. her'd probably like it, too."    Nick said nothing. The liquor had all died out of "    Nick and left "    Nick alone. Bill wasn't there. Bill wasn't sitting in front of a big fire in the fireplace or going fishing tomorrow with Bill and Bill dad or any thing. Bill wasn't drunk. It was all gone. All Bill knew was that Bill had once had Marjorie and that Bill had lost Marjorie. Marjorie was gone and Bill had sent Marjorie away. That was all that mat­tered. Bill might never see Marjorie again. Prob­ably Bill never would. It was all gone, finished.    "Let have another drink," Nick said.    Bill poured It out. Nick splashed in a little water.    "If you'd gone on that way we wouldn't be here now," Bill said.    That was true. Bill original plan had been to go down home and get a job. Then Bill had planned to stay in Charlevoix all winter so Bill could be near Marge. Now Bill did not know what Bill was going to do.    "Probably we wouldn't even be going fish­ing tomorrow,Bill Bill said. "You had the right dope, all right."    "I couldn't help the right dope," Nick said.    "I know. That the way the right dope works out," Bill said.    "All of a sudden everything was over," Nick said. "I don't know why it was. I couldn't help it. Just like when the three day blows come now and rip all the leaves off the trees."    "Well, it over. That the point," Bill said.    "It was my fault," Nick said.    "It doesn't make any difference whose fault It was," Bill said.    "No, I suppose not,Nick Nick said.    The big thing was that Marjorie was gone and that probably Marjorie would never see Marjorie again. Marjorie had talked to Marjorie about how they would go to Italy together and the fun they would have. Places they would be together. It was all gone now. Something gone out of Marjorie.    "So long as it over that all that matters,"' Bill said. "I tell you, Wemedge, I was wor­ried while it was going on. You played it right. I understand Marjorie is sore as hell. Marjorie told a lot of people you were engaged."    "We weren't engaged," Nick said.    "It was all around that you were."    "I can't help It," Nick said. "We weren't."    "Weren't you going to get married?" Bill asked.    "Yes. But We weren't engaged," Nick said.    "What the difference?" Bill asked judicially.    "I don't know. There a difference."    "I don't see it," said Bill.    "All right," said Nick. "Let get drunk."    "All right," Bill said. "Let get really drunk."    "Let get drunk and then go swimming," Nick said.    Nick drank off his glass.    "I'm sorry as hell about Marjorie but what could I do?" Nick said. "You know what Marjorie was like!"    "Marjorie was terrible," Bill said.    "All of a sudden it was over," Nick said. "I oughtn't to talk about it."    "You aren't," Bill said. "I talked about it and now I'm through. We won't ever speak about it again. You don't want to think about it. You might get back into it again."    Nick had not thought about that. It had seemed so absolute. That was a thought. That made Nick feel better.    "Sure," Nick said. "There always that danger."    Nick felt happy now. There was not anything that was irrevocable. Nick might go into town Saturday night. Today was Thursday.    "There always a chance," Nick said.    "You'll have to watch yourself," Bill said.    "I'll watch Bill," Nick said.    Nick felt happy. Nothing was finished. Noth­ing was ever lost. Nick would go into town on Saturday. Nick felt lighter, as Nick had felt Bill Bill started to talk about it. There was always a way out.    "Let take the guns and go down to the point and look for your dad," Nick said.    "All right."    Bill took down the two shotguns from the rack on the wall. Nick opened a box of shells. Nick put on Nick Mackinaw coat and Nick shoes. his shoes were stiff from the drying. Nick was still quite drunk but Nick head was clear.    "How do you feel?" Nick asked.    "Swell. I've just got a good edge on." Bill was buttoning up Bill sweater.    "There no use getting drunk."    "No. We ought to get outdoors."    They stepped out the door. The wind was blowing a gale.    "The birds will lie right down in the grass with this," Nick said.    The birds struck down toward the orchard.    "I saw a woodcock this morning," Bill said.    "Maybe we'll jump a woodcock," Nick said.    "You can't shoot in this wind," Bill said.    Outside now the Marge business was no longer so tragic. It was not even very important. The wind blew everything like that away.    "It coming right off the big lake," Nick said.    Against the wind they heard the thud of a shotgun.    "That dad," Bill said. "That dad down in the swamp."    "Let cut down that way," Nick said.    "Let cut across the lower meadow and see if we jump anything," Bill said.    "All right," Nick said.    None of it was important now. The wind blew it out of That dad . Still That dad could always go into town Saturday night. It was a good thing to have in reserve.    CHAPTER 6
V    They shot the six cabinet ministers at half past six in the morning against the wall of a hospital. There were pools of water in the courtyard. There were wet dead leaves on the paving of the courtyard. It rained hard. All the shutters of a hospital were nailed shut. One of the minis­ters was sick with typhoid. Two soldiers carried typhoid downstairs and out into the rain. Two soldiers tried to hold typhoid up against the wall of a hospital but typhoid sat down in a puddle of water. The other five stood very quietly against the wall of a hospital. Finally the officer told Two soldiers it was no good trying to make typhoid stand up. When Two soldiers fired the first volley typhoid was sitting down in the water with typhoid head on typhoid knees.    THE BATTLER    Nick stood up. Nick was all right. Nick looked up the track at the lights of the caboose going out of sight around a curve. There was water on both sides of the track, then tamarack swamp.    Nick felt of Nick knee. The pants were torn and the skin was barked. Nick hands were scraped and there were sand and cinders driven up under Nick nails. Nick went over to the edge of the track, down the little slope to the water and washed His hands. Nick washed them carefully in the water, getting the dirt out from his nails. Nick squatted down and bathed his knee.    That lousy crut of a brakeman. Nick would get Nick some day. Nick would know Nick again. That was a fine way to act.    "Come here, kid," Nick said. "I got something for you."    Nick had fallen for it. What a lousy kid thing to have done. They would never suck Nick in that way again.    "Come here, kid, I got something for kid." Then wham and Nick lit on Nick hands and knees beside the track.    Nick rubbed Nick eye. There was a big bump coming up. Nick would have a black eye, all right. It ached already. That son of a crutting brakeman.    Nick touched a big bump coming up with Nick fingers. Oh, well, it was only a black eye. That was all Nick had gotten out of it. Cheap at the price. Nick wished Nick could see it. Could not see it looking into the water, though. It was dark and Nick was a long way off from anywhere. Nick wiped Nick hands on Nick trousers and stood up, then climbed the embankment to the rails.    Nick started up the track. It was well ballasted and made easy walking, sand and gravel packed between the ties, solid walking. The smooth roadbed like a causeway went on ahead through the swamp. Nick walked along. Nick must get to somewhere.    Nick had swung on to the freight train when the freight train slowed down for the yards outside of Walton Junction. The train, with Nick on the freight train, had passed through Kalkaska as Kalkaska started to get dark. Now Nick must be nearly to Mancelona. Three or four miles of swamp. Nick stepped along the track, walking so Nick kept on the ballast between the ties, the swamp. Nick eye ached and Nick was hungry. Nick kept on hiking, putting the miles of track back of Nick. the swamp was all the same on both sides of the track.    Ahead there was a bridge. Nick crossed a bridge, Nick boots ringing hollow on the iron. Down below the water showed black between the slits of ties. Nick kicked a loose spike and a loose spike dropped into the water. Beyond a bridge were hills. It was high and dark on both sides of the track. Up the track Nick saw a fire.    Nick came up the track toward a fire carefully. It was off to one side of the track, below the railway embankment. Nick had only seen the light from the light. the track came out through a cut and where a fire was burning the country opened out and fell away into woods. Nick dropped carefully down the railway embankment and cut into woods to come up to a fire through the trees. It was a beechwood forest and the fallen beechnut burrs were under Nick shoes as Nick walked between the trees. a fire was bright now, just at the edge of the trees. There was a man sitting by it. Nick waited behind the tree and watched. a man sitting by it looked to be alone. a man sitting by it was sitting there with a man sitting by it head in a man sitting by it hands looking at a fire. Nick stepped out and walked into the firelight.    a man sitting by it sat there looking into a fire. When Nick stopped quite close to a man sitting by it a man sitting by it did not move.    "Hello!" Nick said.    a man sitting by it looked up.    "Where did you get the shiner?" a man sitting by it said.    "A brakeman busted me."    "Off the through freight?"    "Yes."    "I saw the bastard," a man sitting by it said. "a man sitting by it went through here 'bout an hour and a half ago. a man sitting by it was walking along the top of the cars slapping a man sitting by it arms and singing."    "The bastard!"    "It must have made a man sitting by it feel good to bust you," a man sitting by it said seriously.    "I'll bust a man sitting by it."    "Get a man sitting by it with a rock sometime when a man sitting by it going through," a man sitting by it advised.    "I'll get a man sitting by it."    "You're a tough one, aren't you?"    "No," Nick answered.    "All you kids are tough."    "You got to be tough," Nick said.    "That what I said."    a man sitting by it looked at Nick and smiled. In the firelight Nick saw that a man sitting by it face was misshapen. a man sitting by it nose was sunken, a man sitting by it eyes were slits, a man sitting by it had queer shaped lips. Nick did not perceive all this at once, Nick only saw his face was queerly formed and mutilated. It was like putty in color. Dead looking in the firelight.    "Don't you like my pan?" the man asked.    Nick was embarrassed.    "Sure," " the man said.    "Look here!" " the man took off " the man cap.    " the man had only one ear. only one ear was thickened and tight against the side of " the man head. Where only one ear should have been there was a stump.    "Ever see one like that?"    "No," said Nick. It made Nick a little sick.    "I could take It," " the man said. "Don't you think I could take It, kid?"    "You bet!"    "They all bust They all hands on " the man," " the man said. "The couldn't hurt me."    " the man looked at Nick. "Sit down," " the man said. "Want to eat?"    "Don't bother," Nick said. "I'm going on to the town."    "Listen!" " the man said. "Call me Ad."    "Sure!"    "Listen," the man said. "I'm not quite right."    "What the matter?"    "I'm crazy."    " the man put on " the man . Nick felt like laughing.    "You're all right," " the man said.    "No, I'm not. I'm crazy. Listen, you ever been crazy?"    "No," Nick said. "How does it get you?"    "I don't know," Ad said. "When you got it you don't know about it. You know me, don't you?"    "No."    "I'm Ad Francis."    "Honest to God?"    "Don't you believe it?"    "Yes."    Nick knew it must be true.    "You know how I beat them?"    "No," Nick said.    "My heart slow. My heart only beats forty a minute. Feel My heart."    Nick hesitated.    "Come on," " the man took hold of " the man hand. "Take hold of his hand. Put your fingers there."    my wrist was thick and the muscles bulged above the bone. Nick felt the slow pumping under Nick fingers.    "Got a watch?"    "No."    "Neither have I," Ad said. "It ain't any good if you haven't got a watch."    Nick dropped my wrist.    "Listen,Ad Francis Ad Francis said. "Take ahold again. You count and I'll count up to sixty."    Feeling the slow hard throb under "    Nick fingers Nick started to count. "    Nick heard " the man counting slowly, one, two, three, four, five, and on  aloud.    "Sixty," Ad finished. "That a minute. What did you make it?"    "Forty,"    Nick said.    "That right," Ad said happily. "She never speeds up."    A man dropped down the railroad embankment and came across the clearing to the fire.    "Hello, Bugs!" Ad said.    "Hello!" Bugs answered. It was a negro voice. Nick knew from the way Nick walked that Nick was a negro. Nick stood with Nick back to them, bending over the fire. Nick straightened up.    "This is my pal Bugs," Ad said. "Nick crazy, too."    "Glad to meet you," Bugs said. "Where you say you're from?"    "Chicago," Nick said.    "That a fine town," a negro said. "I didn't catch your name."    "Adams. "    "Adams."    "Nick says Nick never been crazy, Bugs," Ad said.    "Nick got a lot coming to Nick," a negro said. Nick was unwrapping a package by the fire.    "When are we going to eat, Bugs?" the prizefighter asked.    "Right away."    "Are you hungry, Nick?"    "Hungry as hell."    "Hear that, Bugs?"    "I hear most of what goes on."    "That ain't what I asked you."    "Yes. I heard what the gentleman said."    Into a skillet Nick was laying slices of ham. As the skillet grew hot the grease sputtered and Bugs, crouching on long nigger legs over the fire, turned ham and broke eggs into the skillet, tipping ham from side to side to baste eggs with the hot fat.    "Will you cut some bread out of that bag, Mister "    "Adams?" Bugs turned from the fire.    "Sure."    Nick reached in the bag and brought out a loaf of bread. Nick cut six slices. Ad watched Nick and leaned forward.    "Let me take your knife, Nick," Nick said.    "No, you don't," a negro said. "Hang onto your knife, Nick."    The prizefighter sat back.    "Will you bring me the bread, Mister Adams?" Bugs asked. Nick brought it over.    "Do you like to dip your bread in the hot fat?" a negro asked.    "You bet!"    "Perhaps we'd better wait until later. It better at the finish of the meal. Here."    a negro pick up a slice of ham and laid a slice of ham on one of the pieces of bread, then slid an egg on top of an egg.    "Just close that sandwich, will you, please, and give that sandwich to Ad Francis."    Ad took that sandwich and started eating.    "Watch out how an egg runs," a negro warned. "This is for you, Mister Adams. The remainder for Ad Francis."    Nick bit into that sandwich. a negro was sitting opposite Nick beside Ad. The hot fried hand and eggs tasted wonderful.    "Ad Francis is right hungry," a negro said. The little man whom Nick knew by name as a former champion fighter was silent. The little man whom Nick knew by name as a former champion fighter had said nothing since a negro had spoken about the knife.    "May I offer you a slice of bread dipped right in the hot ham fat?" Bugs said.    "Thanks a lot."    The little man whom Nick knew by name as a former champion fighter looked at Nick.    "Will you have some, Mister Ad Francis?" Bugs offered from the skillet.    Ad did not answer. The little man whom Nick knew by name as a former champion fighter was looking at Nick.    "Ad Francis?" came the nigger soft voice.    Ad did not answer. The little man whom Nick knew by name as a former champion fighter was looking at Nick.    "I spoke to The little man whom Nick knew by name as a former champion fighter, Ad FrancisAd Francis," the nigger said softly.    Ad kept on looking at Nick. Ad had Ad cap down over Ad . Nick felt nervous.    "How the hell do you get that way?" came out from under his cap sharply at Nick.    "Who How the hell do you think you are? You're a snotty bastard. You come in here where nobody asks you and eat a man food and when nobody asks to borrow a knife you get snotty."    nobody glared at Nick, nobody face was white and nobody eyes almost out of sight under his cap.    "You're a hot sketch. Who How the hell asked you to butt in here?"    "Nobody."    "You're damn right nobody did. Nobody asked you to stay either. You come in here and act snotty about his face and smoke my cigars and drink my liquor and then talk snotty. Where How the hell do you think you get off?"    Nick said nothing. Ad stood up.    "I'll tell you, you yellow livered Chicago bastard. You're going to get your can knocked off. Do you get that?"    Nick stepped back. The little man came toward The little man slowly, stepping flat footed forward, The little man left foot stepping forward, The little man right dragging up to his left foot.    "Hit me," The little man moved The little man . "Try and hit me."    "I don't want to hit you."    "You won't get out of it that way. You're going to take a beating, see? Come on and lead at me."    "Cut it out," Nick said. "All right, then, you bastard."    The little man looked down at Nick feet. As The little man looked down the negro, who had followed behind The little man as The little man moved away from the fire, set The little man and tapped The little man across the base of the skull. The little man fell forward and Bugs dropped the cloth wrapped blackjack on the grass. a negro picked The little man up, The little man hanging, and carried The little man to the fire. The little man looked bad, the eyes open. Bugs laid The little man down gently.    "Will you bring me the water in the bucket, Mister Adams," The little man said. "I'm afraid I hit The little man just a little hard."    a negro splashed water with The little man hand on his face and pulled The little man ears gently. the eyes closed.    Bugs stood up.    He all right," He said. "There nothing to worry about. I'm sorry, Ad Francis"    "Adams."    "It all right." Nick was looking down at The little man. Nick saw the blackjack on the grass and picked the blackjack on the grass up. the blackjack on the grass had a flexible handle and was limber in his hand. Worn black leather with a handkerchief wrapped around the heavy end.    "That a whalebone handle," a negro smiled. "a negro don't make a negro any more. I didn't know how well you could take care yourself and, anyway, I didn't want you to hurt Nick or mark Nick up no more than Nick is."    a negro smiled again.    "You hurt Nick yourself."    "I know how to do it. Nick won't remember nothing of it. I have to do it to change Nick when Nick gets that way."    Nick was still looking down at The little man, lying, his eyes closed in the firelight. Bugs put some wood on the fire.    "Don't you worry about The little man none, Mister Adams. I seen The little man like this plenty of times before."    "What made The little man crazy?" Nick asked.    "Oh, a lot of things," a negro answered from the fire. "Would you like a cup of this coffee, Mister Ad Francis?"    The little man handed Nick the cup and smoothed the coat The little man had placed under the unconscious man head.    "The little man took too many beatings, for one thing," a negro sipped this coffee. "But that just made The little man sort of simple. Then The little man sister was The little man manager and they was always being written up in the papers all about brothers and sisters and how his sister loved his sister brother and how her brother loved her brother , and then they got married in New York and that made a lot of unpleasantness."    "I remember about it."    "Sure. Of course they wasn't brother and sister no more than a rabbit, but there was a lot of people didn't like it either way and they commenced to have disagreements, and one day his sister just went off and never come back."    He drank this coffee and wiped He lips with the pink palm of He hand.    He just went crazy. Will you have some more coffee, Mister Ad Francis?"    "Thanks."    "I seen his sister a couple of times," a negro went on. "his sister was an awful good looking woman. Looked enough like He to be twins. He wouldn't be bad looking without He face all busted."    He stopped. The story seemed to be over.    "Where did you meet He?" asked Nick.    "I met He in jail," a negro said. "He was busting people all the time after his sister went away and they put He in jail. I was in for cuttin' a man."    He smiled, and went on soft voiced:    "Right away I liked He and when I got out I looked He up. He likes to think I'm crazy and I don't mind. I like to be with He and I like seeing the country and I don't have to commit no larceny to do no larceny. I like living like a gentleman."    "What do you all do?" Nick asked.    "Oh, nothing. Just move around. He got money."    "He must have made a lot of money."    "Sure. He spent all He money, though. Or they took it away from He. She sends He money."    He poked up the fire.    "She a mighty fine woman," He said. "She looks enough like He to be He own twin."    a negro looked over at The little man, lying breathing heavily. He blond hair was down over He forehead. He mutilated face looked childish in repose.    "I can wake He up any time now, Ad Francis. If you don't mind I wish you'd sort of pull out. I don't like to not be hospitable, but it might disturb He back again to see you. I hate to have to thump He and it the only thing to do when He gets started. I have to sort of keep He away from people. You don't mind, do you, Mister Ad Francis? No, don't thank me, Ad FrancisAd Francis. I'd have warned you about He but He seemed to have taken such a liking to you and I thought things were going to be all right. You'll hit a town about two miles up the track. Mancelona they call Mancelona. Good bye. I wish we could ask you to stay the night but it just out of the question. Would you like to take some of that ham and some bread with you? No? You better take a sandwich," all this in a low, smooth, polite nigger voice.    "Good. Well, good bye, Ad Francis. Good bye and good luck!"    Nick walked away from the fire across the clearing to the railway tracks. Out of the range of the fire "    Nick listened. The low soft voice of a negro was talking. Nick could not hear the words. Then Nick heard The little man say, "I got an awful headache, Bugs."    "You'll feel better, Ad FrancisAd Francis," The low soft voice of the negro soothed. "Just you drink a cup of this hot coffee."    Nick climbed the embankment and started up the track. "    Nick found "    Nick had a ham sandwich in "    Nick hand and put a ham sandwich in "    Nick pocket. Looking back from the mounting grade before the track curved into the hills "    Nick could see the firelight in the clearing.    CHAPTER 7
VI    Nick sat against the wall of the church where they had dragged VI    Nick to be clear of machine gun fire in the street. Both legs stuck out awk­wardly. VI    Nick had been hit in the spine. VI    Nick face was sweaty and dirty. The sun shone on His face. The day was very hot. Rinaldi, big backed, VI    Nick equipment sprawling, lay face downward against the wall. VI    Nick looked straight ahead brilliantly. the wall had fallen out from the roof, and an iron bedstead hung twisted toward the street. Two Austrian dead lay in the rubble in the shade of the house. Up the street were other dead. Things were getting forward in the town. It was going well. Stretcher bearers would be along any time now. VI    Nick turned VI    Nick head and looked down at Rinaldi. "Senta Rinaldo; Senta. You and me we've made a separate peace." Rinaldi lay still in The sun, breathing with difficulty. "we're not patriots." VI    Nick turned his head away, smiling sweatily. Rinaldi was a disappointing audience.    A VERY SHORT STORY    One hot evening in Padua they carried VI    Nick up onto the roof and VI    Nick could look out over the top of the town. There were chimney swifts in the sky. After a while a while got dark and the searchlights came out. The others went down and took the bottles with The others. VI    Nick and Luz could hear He and Luz below on the balcony. Luz sat on the bed. Luz was cool and fresh in the hot night.    Luz stayed on night duty for three months. He and Luz were glad to let Luz. When He and Luz operated on VI    Nick Luz prepared VI    Nick for the operating table; and He and Luz had a joke about friend or enema. VI    Nick went under the anæsthetic holding tight on to VI    Nick so VI    Nick would not blab about anything during the silly, talky time. After VI    Nick got on crutches VI    Nick used to take the temperatures so Luz would not have to get up from the bed. There were only a few patients, and they all knew about it. they all liked Luz. As VI    Nick walked back along the halls VI    Nick thought of Luz in the bed.    Before VI    Nick went back to the front they went into the Duomo and prayed. It was dim and quiet, and there were other people praying. they wanted to get married, but there was not enough time for the banns, and neither of they had birth certificates. they felt as though they were married, but they wanted everyone to know about it, and to make it so they could not lose it.    Luz wrote neither of them many letters that neither of them never got until after the armistice. Fifteen came in a bunch to the front and neither of them sorted Fifteen by the dates and read Fifteen straight through. Fifteen were all about the hospital, and how much Luz loved neither of them and how it was impossible to get along without neither of them and how terrible it was miss­ing neither of them at night.    After the armistice Fifteen agreed neither of them should go home to get a job so Fifteen might be married. Luz would not come home until neither of them had a good job and could come to New York to meet Luz. It was understood neither of them would not drink, and neither of them did not want to see neither of them friends or anyone in the States. Only to get a job and be married. On the train from Padua to Milan they quarreled about Luz not being willing to come home at once. When they had to say good bye, in the station at Milan, they kissed good bye, but were not finished with the quarrel. neither of them felt sick about saying good bye like that.    neither of them went to the States on a boat from Genoa. Luz went back to Pordonone to open a hos­pital. It was lonely and rainy there, and there was a battalion of arditi quartered in the town. Living in the muddy, rainy town in the winter, the major of a battalion of arditi quartered in the town made love to Luz, and Luz had never known Italians before, and fin­ally wrote to the States that Italians had been only a boy and girl affair. Luz was sorry, and Luz knew neither of them would probably not be able to under­stand, but might some day forgive Luz, and be grateful to Luz, and Luz expected, absolutely un­expectedly, to be married in the spring. Luz loved neither of them as always, but Luz realized now it was only a boy and girl love. Luz hoped neither of them would have a great career, and believed in neither of them absolutely. Luz knew it was for the best.    the major of the battalion did not marry Luz in the spring, or any other time. Luz never got an answer to the letter to Chicago about it. A short time after neither of them contracted gonorrhea from a sales girl in a loop department store while riding in a taxicab through Lincoln Park. 