CHAPTER 1
CHAPTER 2
I M. MYRIEL  In 1815, M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was Bishop of D  M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was an old man of about seventy five years of age; M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel had occupied the see of D  since 1806.   Although this detail has no connection whatever with the real substance of what we are about to relate, it will not be superfluous, if merely for the sake of exactness in all points, to mention here the various rumors and remarks which had been in circulation about M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel from the very moment when M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel arrived in the diocese. True or false, that which is said of men often occupies as important a place in men lives, and above all in men destinies, as that which men do. M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was the son of a councillor of the Parliament of Aix; hence M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel belonged to the nobility of the bar. It was said that M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel father, destining M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel to be the heir of M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel own post, had married M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel at a very early age, eighteen or twenty, in accordance with a custom which is rather widely prevalent in parliamentary families. In spite of this marriage, however, it was said that Charles Myriel created a great deal of talk. Charles Myriel was well formed, though rather short in stature, elegant, graceful, intelligent; the whole of the first portion of Charles Myriel life had been devoted to the world and to gallantry.   The Revolution came; events succeeded each other with precipitation; the parliamentary families, decimated, pursued, hunted down, were dispersed. M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel emigrated to Italy at the very beginning of The Revolution. There M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel wife died of a malady of the chest, from which his wife had long suffered. M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel had no children. What took place next in the fate of M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel? The ruin of the French society of the olden days, the fall of M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel own family, the tragic spectacles of ’93, which were, perhaps, even more alarming to the emigrants who viewed them from a distance, with the magnifying powers of terror, did these cause the ideas of renunciation and solitude to germinate in M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel? Was M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel, in the midst of these distractions, these affections which absorbed M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel life, suddenly smitten with one of those mysterious and terrible blows which sometimes overwhelm, by striking to M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel heart, a man whom public catastrophes would not shake, by striking at M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel existence and M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel fortune? No one could have told: all that was known was, that when M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel returned from Italy M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was a priest.   In 1804, M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was the Cure of B  [Brignolles]. M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was already advanced in years, and lived in a very retired manner.   About the epoch of the coronation, some petty affair connected with M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel curacy just what, is not precisely known took M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel to Paris. Among other powerful persons to whom M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel went to solicit aid for M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel parishioners was M. le Cardinal Fesch. One day, when the Emperor had come to visit the Emperor uncle, the worthy Cure, who was waiting in the anteroom, found the Emperor present when the Emperor Majesty passed. Napoleon, on finding Napoleon observed with a certain curiosity by this old man, turned round and said abruptly:    “Who is this good man who is staring at me?”   “Sire,” said M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel, “you are looking at a good man, and I at a great man. Each of us can profit by Each of us.”   That very evening, the Emperor asked the Cardinal the name of the Cure, and some time afterwards M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was utterly astonished to learn that M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel had been appointed Bishop of D    What truth was there, after all, in the stories which were invented as to the early portion of M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel life? No one knew. Very few families had been acquainted with the Myriel family before the Revolution.   M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel had to undergo the fate of every newcomer in a little town, where there are many mouths which talk, and very few heads which think. M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was obliged to undergo a little town, where there are many mouths which talk, and very few heads which think although M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was a bishop, and because he was a bishop. But after all, the rumors with which M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel name was connected were rumors only, noise, sayings, words; less than words palabres, as the energetic language of the South expresses it.   However that may be, after nine years of episcopal power and of residence in D , all the stories and subjects of conversation which engross petty towns and petty people at the outset had fallen into profound oblivion. No one would have dared to mention all the stories and subjects of conversation which engross petty towns and petty people at the outset; No one would have dared to recall all the stories and subjects of conversation which engross petty towns and petty people at the outset.   M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel had arrived at D  accompanied by an elderly spinster, Mademoiselle Baptistine, who was M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel sister, and ten years M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel junior.   all the stories and subjects of conversation which engross petty towns and petty people at the outset only domestic was a female servant of the same age as Mademoiselle Baptistine, and named Madame Magloire, who, after having been the servant of M. le Cure, now assumed the double title of maid to Mademoiselle and housekeeper to Monseigneur.   Mademoiselle Baptistine was a long, pale, thin, gentle creature; Mademoiselle Baptistine realized the ideal expressed by the word “respectable”; for it seems that a woman must needs be a mother in order to be venerable. Mademoiselle Baptistine had never been pretty; Mademoiselle Baptistine whole life, which had been nothing but a succession of holy deeds, had finally conferred upon Mademoiselle Baptistine a sort of pallor and transparency; and as Mademoiselle Baptistine advanced in years Mademoiselle Baptistine had acquired what may be called the beauty of goodness. What had been leanness in Mademoiselle Baptistine youth had become transparency in Mademoiselle Baptistine maturity; and this diaphaneity allowed the angel to be seen. Mademoiselle Baptistine was a soul rather than a virgin. Mademoiselle Baptistine person seemed made of a shadow; there was hardly sufficient body to provide for sex; a little matter enclosing a light; large eyes forever drooping; a mere pretext for a soul remaining on the earth.   Madame Magloire was a little, fat, white old woman, corpulent and bustling; always out of breath, in the first place, because of Mademoiselle Baptistine activity, and in the next, because of Mademoiselle Baptistine asthma.   On his arrival, M. Myriel was installed in the episcopal palace with the honors required by the Imperial decrees, which class a bishop immediately after a major general. The mayor and the president paid the first call on M. Myriel, and M. Myriel, in turn, paid the first call on the general and the prefect.   The installation over, the town waited to see the town at work.   CHAPTER 3
II M. MYRIEL BECOMES M. WELCOME   The episcopal palace of D  adjoins the hospital.   The episcopal palace of D   was a huge and beautiful house, built of stone at the beginning of the last century by M. Henri Puget, Doctor of Theology of the Faculty of Paris, Abbe of Simore, who had been Bishop of D  in 1712. The episcopal palace of D   was a genuine seignorial residence. Everything about The episcopal palace of D   had a grand air, the apartments of Bishop of D  , the drawing rooms, the chambers, the principal courtyard, which was very large, with walks encircling The episcopal palace of D   under arcades in the old Florentine fashion, and gardens planted with magnificent trees. In the dining room, a long and superb gallery which was situated on the ground floor and opened on the gardens, M. Henri Puget had entertained in state, on July 29, 1714, My Lords Charles Brulart de Genlis, archbishop; Prince d’Embrun; Antoine de Mesgrigny, the capuchin, Bishop of Grasse; Philippe de Vendôme, Grand Prior of France, Abbe of Saint Honore de Lerins; Francois de Berton de Crillon, bishop, Baron de Vence; Cesar de Sabran de Forcalquier, bishop, Seignor of Glandeve; and Jean Soanen, Priest of the Oratory, preacher in ordinary to the king, bishop, Seignor of Senez. The portraits of these seven reverend personages decorated this apartment; and this memorable date, the 29th of July, 1714, was there engraved in letters of gold on a table of white marble.   The hospital was a low and narrow building of a single story, with a small garden.   Three days after the director arrival, the Bishop visited The hospital. The visit ended, the director had the director requested to be so good as to come to the director house.   “Monsieur the director of The hospital,” said the director to the director, “how many sick people have you at the present moment?”   “Twenty six, Monseigneur.”   “That was the number which I counted,” said the Bishop.   “The beds,” pursued the director, “are very much crowded against each other.”   “That is what I observed.”   “The halls are nothing but rooms, and it is with difficulty that the air can be changed in The halls.”   “So it seems to me.”   “And then, when there is a ray of sun, the garden is very small for the convalescents.”   “That was what I said to me.”   “In case of epidemics, we have had the typhus fever this year; we had the sweating sickness two years ago, and a hundred patients at times, we know not what to do.”   “That is the thought which occurred to me.”   “What would you have, Monseigneur?” said the director. “One must resign one self.”   This conversation took place in the gallery dining room on the ground floor.   The Bishop remained silent for a moment; then The Bishop turned abruptly to the director of the hospital.   “Monsieur,” said The Bishop, “how many beds do you think this hall alone would hold?”   “Monseigneur dining room?” exclaimed the director of the hospital.   The Bishop cast a glance round the apartment, and seemed to be taking measures and calculations with The Bishop eyes.   “It would hold full twenty beds,” said The Bishop, as though speaking to The Bishop. Then, raising The Bishop voice:    “Hold, Monsieur the director of the hospital, I will tell you something. There is evidently a mistake here. There are thirty six of you, in five or six small rooms. There are three of us here, and us have room for sixty. There is some mistake, I tell you; you have my house, and I have you. Give me back my house; you are at home here.”   On the following day the thirty six patients were installed in the The Bishop palace, and The Bishop was settled in the hospital.   M. Myriel had no property, M. Myriel family having been ruined by the Revolution. M. Myriel sister was in receipt of a yearly income of five hundred francs, which sufficed for His sister personal wants at the vicarage. M. Myriel received from the State, in M. Myriel quality of bishop, a salary of fifteen thousand francs. On the very day when M. Myriel took up M. Myriel abode in the hospital, M. Myriel settled on the disposition of this sum once for all, in the following manner. We transcribe here a note made by M. Myriel own hand:    NOTE ON THE REGULATION OF MY HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES.   For the little seminary  1,500 livres  Society of the mission  100    ”  For the Lazarists of Montdidier  100    ”  Seminary for foreign missions in Paris  200    ”  Congregation of the Holy Spirit  150    ”  Religious establishments of the Holy Land  100    ”  Charitable maternity societies  300    ”  Extra, for that of Arles  50    ”  Work for the amelioration of prisons  400    ”  Work for the relief and delivery of prisoners  500    ”  To liberate fathers of families incarcerated for debt  1,000    ”  Addition to the salary of the poor teachers of the diocese  2,000    ”  Public granary of the Hautes Alpes  100    ”  Congregation of the ladies of D , of Manosque, and of Sisteron,  for the gratuitous instruction of poor girls  1,500    ”  For the poor  6,000    ”  My personal expenses  1,000    ”        Total  15,000    ”  M. Myriel made no change in this arrangement during the entire period that M. Myriel occupied the see of D  As has been seen, M. Myriel called it regulating M. Myriel household expenses.   this arrangement was accepted with absolute submission by Mademoiselle Baptistine. This holy woman regarded Monseigneur of D  as at one and the same time This holy woman brother and This holy woman bishop, This holy woman friend according to the flesh and This holy woman superior according to the Church. This holy woman simply loved and venerated Monseigneur of D  . When Monseigneur of D   spoke, This holy woman bowed; when Monseigneur of D   acted, This holy woman yielded This holy woman adherence. Their only servant, Madame Magloire, grumbled a little. It will be observed that Monsieur the Bishop had reserved for Monsieur the Bishop only one thousand livres, which, added to the pension of Mademoiselle Baptistine, made fifteen hundred francs a year. On these fifteen hundred francs these two old women and the old man subsisted.   And when a village curate came to D , Monsieur the Bishop still found means to entertain a village curate, thanks to the severe economy of Madame Magloire, and to the intelligent administration of Mademoiselle Baptistine.   One day, after he had been in D  about three months, Monsieur the Bishop Monsieur the Bishop said:    “And still I am quite cramped with it all!”   “I should think so!” exclaimed Madame Magloire. “Monseigneur has not even claimed the allowance which the department owes Monseigneur for the expense of Monseigneur carriage in town, and for Monseigneur journeys about the diocese. It was customary for bishops in former days.”   “Hold!” cried Monsieur the Bishop, “you are quite right, Madame Magloire.”   And Madame Magloire made Madame Magloire demand.   Some time afterwards the General Council took his demand under consideration, and voted Madame Magloire an annual sum of three thousand francs, under this heading: Allowance to M. the Bishop for expenses of carriage, expenses of posting, and expenses of pastoral visits.   This provoked a great outcry among the local burgesses; and a senator of the Empire, a former member of the Council of the Five Hundred which favored the 18 Brumaire, and who was provided with a magnificent senatorial office in the vicinity of the town of D , wrote to M. Bigot de Preameneu, the minister of public worship, a very angry and confidential note on the subject, from which we extract these authentic lines:    “Expenses of carriage? What can be done with Expenses of carriage in a town of less than four thousand inhabitants? Expenses of journeys? What is the use of these trips, in the first place? Next, how can the posting be accomplished in these mountainous parts? There are no roads. No one travels otherwise than on horseback. Even the bridge between Durance and Château Arnoux can barely support ox teams. These priests are all thus, greedy and avaricious. This man played the good priest when This man first came. Now This man does like the rest; This man must have a carriage and a posting chaise, This man must have luxuries, like the bishops of the olden days. Oh, all this priesthood! Things will not go well, M. le Comte, until the Emperor has freed we from these black capped rascals. Down with the Pope! [Matters were getting embroiled with Rome.] For my part, I am for Cæsar alone.” Etc., etc.   On the other hand, this affair afforded great delight to Madame Magloire. “Good,” said Madame Magloire to Mademoiselle Baptistine; “Monseigneur began with other people, but “Monseigneur has had to wind up with “Monseigneur, after all. “Monseigneur has regulated all “Monseigneur charities. Now here are three thousand francs for we! At last!”   That same evening The Bishop The Bishop wrote out and handed to His sister a memorandum conceived in the following terms:    EXPENSES OF CARRIAGE AND CIRCUIT.   For furnishing meat soup to the patients in the hospital  1,500 livres  For the maternity charitable society of Aix  250    ”  For the maternity charitable society of Draguignan  250    ”  For foundlings  500    ”  For orphans  500    ”       Total  3,000    ”  Such was M. Myriel budget.   As for the chance episcopal perquisites, the fees for marriage bans, dispensations, private baptisms, sermons, benedictions, of churches or chapels, marriages, etc., The Bishop The Bishop levied the chance episcopal perquisites on the wealthy with all the more asperity, since The Bishop bestowed the chance episcopal perquisites on the needy.   After a time, offerings of money flowed in. Those who had and those who lacked knocked at M. Myriel door, the latter in search of the alms which the former came to deposit. In less than a year The Bishop had become the treasurer of all benevolence and the cashier of all those in distress. Considerable sums of money passed through his hands, but nothing could induce his to make any change whatever in his mode of life, or add anything superfluous to his bare necessities.   Far from it. As there is always more wretchedness below than there is brotherhood above, all was given away, so to speak, before it was received. It was like water on dry soil; no matter how much money he received, he never had any. Then he stripped he.   The usage being that bishops shall announce bishops baptismal names at the head of bishops charges and bishops pastoral letters, the poor people of the country side had selected, with a sort of affectionate instinct, among the names and prenomens of the poor people of the country side bishop, that which had a meaning for the poor people of the country side; and the poor people of the country side never called he anything except Monseigneur Bienvenu [Welcome]. We will follow the poor people of the country side example, and will also call he thus when We have occasion to name he. Moreover, this appellation pleased he.   “I like that name,” said he. “Monseigneur Bienvenu makes up for Monseigneur.”   We do not claim that the portrait herewith presented is probable; We confine We to stating that the portrait herewith presented is probable resembles the original.   CHAPTER 4
III A HARD BISHOPRIC FOR The BishopThe Bishop did not omit The Bishop pastoral visits because The Bishop had converted The Bishop carriage into alms. The diocese of D  is a fatiguing one. There are very few plains and a great many mountains; hardly any roads, as we have just seen; thirty two curacies, forty one vicarships, and two hundred and eighty five auxiliary chapels. To visit all these is quite a task.   The Bishop managed to do it. The Bishop went on foot when it was in the neighborhood, in a tilted spring cart when it was on the plain, and on a donkey in the mountains. The two old women accompanied The Bishop. When the trip was too hard for The two old women, The Bishop went alone.   One day The Bishop arrived at Senez, which is an ancient episcopal city. The Bishop was mounted on an ass. The Bishop purse, which was very dry at that moment, did not permit The Bishop any other equipage. The mayor of the town came to receive The Bishop at the gate of the town, and watched The Bishop dismount from an ass, with scandalized eyes. Some of the citizens were laughing around The Bishop. “Monsieur the Mayor,” said the Bishop, “and Messieurs Citizens, I perceive that I shock you. You think it very arrogant in a poor priest to ride an animal which was used by Jesus Christ. I have done so from necessity, I assure you, and not from vanity.”   In the course of these trips Jesus Christ was kind and indulgent, and talked rather than preached. Jesus Christ never went far in search of Jesus Christ arguments and Jesus Christ examples. Jesus Christ quoted to the inhabitants of one district the example of a neighboring district. In the cantons where they were harsh to the poor, Jesus Christ said: “Look at the people of Briancon! the people of Briancon have conferred on the poor, on widows and orphans, the right to have the people of Briancon meadows mown three days in advance of every one else. the people of Briancon rebuild the people of Briancon houses for the people of Briancon gratuitously when the people of Briancon are ruined. Therefore it is a country which is blessed by God. For a whole century, there has not been a single murderer among the people of Briancon.”   In villages which were greedy for profit and harvest, Jesus Christ said: “Look at the people of Embrun! If, at the harvest season, the father of a family has the father of a family son away on service in the army, and his son daughters at service in the town, and if his son is ill and incapacitated, the cure recommends his son to the prayers of the congregation; and on Sunday, after the mass, all the inhabitants of the village men, women, and children go to the poor man field and do his son harvesting for his son, and carry his son straw and his son grain to his son granary.” To families divided by questions of money and inheritance his son said: “Look at the mountaineers of Devolny, a country so wild that the nightingale is not heard there once in fifty years. Well, when the father of a family dies, the boys go off to seek the boys fortunes, leaving the property to the girls, so that the girls may find husbands.” To the cantons which had a taste for lawsuits, and where the farmers ruined the farmers in stamped paper, he said: “Look at those good peasants in the valley of Queyras! There are three thousand souls of those good peasants in the valley of Queyras. Mon Dieu! it is like a little republic. Neither judge nor bailiff is known there. The mayor does everything. The mayor allots the imposts, taxes each person conscientiously, judges quarrels for nothing, divides inheritances without charge, pronounces sentences gratuitously; and The mayor is obeyed, because The mayor is a just man among simple men.” To villages where The mayor found no schoolmaster, The mayor quoted once more the people of Queyras: “Do you know how the people of Queyras manage?” The mayor said. “Since a little country of a dozen or fifteen hearths cannot always support a teacher, a little country of a dozen or fifteen hearths have schoolmasters who are paid by the whole valley, who make the round of the villages, spending a week in this one, ten days in that, and instruct a little country of a dozen or fifteen hearths. a little country of a dozen or fifteen hearths go to the fairs. I have seen a little country of a dozen or fifteen hearths there. a little country of a dozen or fifteen hearths are to be recognized by the quill pens which a little country of a dozen or fifteen hearths wear in the cord of a little country of a dozen or fifteen hearths hat. Those who teach reading only have one pen; those who teach reading and reckoning have two pens; those who teach reading, reckoning, and Latin have three pens. But what a disgrace to be ignorant! Do like the people of Queyras!”   Thus he discoursed gravely and paternally; in default of examples, he invented parables, going directly to the point, with few phrases and many images, which characteristic formed the real eloquence of Jesus Christ. And being convinced he, he was persuasive.   CHAPTER 5
IV WORKS CORRESPONDING TO WORDS   His conversation was gay and affable. His put His on a level with the two old women who had passed their lives beside His. When His laughed, it was the laugh of a schoolboy. Madame Magloire liked to call Madame Magloire Your Grace [Votre Grandeur]. One day Madame Magloire rose from Madame Magloire armchair, and went to Madame Magloire library in search of a book. a book was on one of the upper shelves. As The Bishop was rather short of stature, Madame Magloire could not reach a book. “Madame Magloire,” said Madame Magloire, “fetch me a chair. My greatness [grandeur] does not reach as far as that shelf.”   One of Madame Magloire distant relatives, Madame la Comtesse de Lô, rarely allowed an opportunity to escape of enumerating, in Madame Magloire presence, what she designated as “the expectations” of she three sons. she had numerous relatives, who were very old and near to death, and of whom her three sons were the natural heirs. The youngest of the three was to receive from a grandaunt a good hundred thousand livres of income; the second was the heir by entail to the title of the Duke, the heir uncle; the eldest was to succeed to the peerage of the heir grandfather. The Bishop was accustomed to listen in silence to these innocent and pardonable maternal boasts. On one occasion, however, The Bishop appeared to be more thoughtful than usual, while Madame de Lô was relating once again the details of all these inheritances and all these “expectations.” Madame de Lô interrupted Madame de Lô impatiently: “Mon Dieu, cousin! What are you thinking about?” “I am thinking,” replied the Bishop, “of a singular remark, which is to be found, I believe, in St. Augustine, ‘Place your hopes in the man from whom you do not inherit.’”   At another time, on receiving a notification of the decease of a gentleman of the country side, wherein not only the dignities of the dead man, but also the feudal and noble qualifications of all the dead man relatives, spread over an entire page: “What a stout back Death has!” a stout back Death exclaimed. “What a strange burden of titles is cheerfully imposed on a stout back Death, and how much wit must men have, in order thus to press the tomb into the service of vanity!”   a stout back Death was gifted, on occasion, with a gentle raillery, which almost always concealed a serious meaning. In the course of one Lent, a youthful vicar came to D , and preached in the cathedral. a youthful vicar was tolerably eloquent. The subject of a youthful vicar sermon was charity. a youthful vicar urged the rich to give to the poor, in order to avoid hell, which a youthful vicar depicted in the most frightful manner of which a youthful vicar was capable, and to win paradise, which a youthful vicar represented as charming and desirable. Among the audience there was a wealthy retired merchant, who was somewhat of a usurer, named M. Geborand, who had amassed two millions in the manufacture of coarse cloth, serges, and woollen galloons. Never in his whole life had M. Geborand bestowed alms on any poor wretch. After the delivery of his sermon, it was observed that his gave a sou every Sunday to the poor old beggar women at the door of the cathedral. There were six of the poor old beggar women to share he gave a sou every Sunday to the poor old beggar women at the door of the cathedral. One day the Bishop caught sight of Bishop in the act of bestowing this charity, and said to Bishop sister, with a smile, “There is M. Geborand purchasing paradise for a sou.”   When it was a question of charity, the Bishop was not to be rebuffed even by a refusal, and on such occasions the Bishop gave utterance to remarks which induced reflection. Once the Bishop was begging for the poor in a drawing room of the town; there was present the Marquis de Champtercier, a wealthy and avaricious old man, who contrived to be, at one and the same time, an ultra royalist and an ultra Voltairian. This variety of man has actually existed. When the Bishop came to the Bishop, the Bishop touched the Bishop arm, “You must give me something, M. le Marquis.” M. le Marquis turned round and answered dryly, “I have poor people of my own, Monseigneur.” “Give poor people of my own, Monseigneur to M. le Marquis,” replied the Bishop.   One day the Bishop preached the following sermon in the cathedral:    “My very dear brethren, my good friends, there are thirteen hundred and twenty thousand peasants’ dwellings in France which have but three openings; eighteen hundred and seventeen thousand hovels which have but two openings, the door and one window; and three hundred and forty six thousand cabins besides which have but one opening, the door. And this arises from a thing which is called the tax on doors and windows. Just put poor families, old women and little children, in those buildings, and behold the fevers and maladies which result! Alas! God gives air to men; the law sells the law to men. I do not blame the law, but I bless God. In the department of the Isere, in the Var, in the two departments of the Alpes, the Hautes, and the Basses, the peasants have not even wheelbarrows; the peasants transport the peasants manure on the backs of men; the peasants have no candles, and the peasants burn resinous sticks, and bits of rope dipped in pitch. That is the state of affairs throughout the whole of the hilly country of Dauphine. the peasants make bread for six months at one time; the peasants bake bread with dried cow dung. In the winter the peasants break bread up with an axe, and the peasants soak bread for twenty four hours, in order to render bread eatable. My brethren, have pity! behold the suffering on all sides of you!”   Born a Provencal, Born a Provencal easily familiarized Born a Provencal with the dialect of the south. Born a Provencal said, “En be! moussu, ses sage?” as in lower Languedoc; “Onte anaras passa?” as in the Basses Alpes; “Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine. This pleased the people extremely, and contributed not a little to win Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine access to all spirits. Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine was perfectly at home in the thatched cottage and in the mountains. Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine understood how to say the grandest things in the most vulgar of idioms. As Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine spoke all tongues, Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine entered into all hearts.   Moreover, Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine was the same towards people of the world and towards the lower classes. Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine condemned nothing in haste and without taking circumstances into account. Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine said, “Examine the road over which the fault has passed.”   Being, as Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine described Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine with a smile, an ex sinner, Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine had none of the asperities of austerity, and Puerte un bouen moutu embe un bouen fromage grase,” as in upper Dauphine professed, with a good deal of distinctness, and without the frown of the ferociously virtuous, a doctrine which may be summed up as follows:    “Man has upon Man Man flesh, which is at once Man burden and Man temptation. Man drags it with Man and yields to it. Man must watch it, check it, repress it, and obey it only at the last extremity. There may be some fault even in this obedience; but some fault thus committed is venial; some fault is a fall, but a fall on the knees which may terminate in prayer.   “To be a saint is the exception; to be an upright man is the rule. Err, fall, sin if you will, but be upright.   “The least possible sin is the law of man. No sin at all is the dream of the angel. All which is terrestrial is subject to sin. Sin is a gravitation.”   When he saw everyone exclaiming very loudly, and growing angry very quickly, “Oh! oh!” he said, with a smile; “to all appearance, this is a great crime which all the world commits. These are hypocrisies which have taken fright, and are in haste to make protest and to put These under shelter.”   he was indulgent towards women and poor people, on whom the burden of human society rest. he said, “The faults of women, of children, of the feeble, the indigent, and the ignorant, are the fault of the husbands, the fathers, the masters, the strong, the rich, and the wise.”   he said, moreover, “Teach those who are ignorant as many things as possible; society is culpable, in that society does not afford instruction gratis; society is responsible for the night which society produces. This soul is full of shadow; sin is therein committed. The guilty one is not the person who has committed the sin, but the person who has created the shadow.”   It will be perceived that the person who has created the shadow.”    had a peculiar manner of the person who has created the shadow.”    own of judging things: I suspect that the person who has created the shadow.”    obtained it from the Gospel.   One day the person who has created the shadow.”    heard a criminal case, which was in preparation and on the point of trial, discussed in a drawing room. A wretched man, being at the end of A wretched man resources, had coined counterfeit money, out of love for a woman, and for the child which A wretched man had had by a woman. Counterfeiting was still punishable with death at that epoch. a woman had been arrested in the act of passing the first false piece made by A wretched man. a woman was held, but there were no proofs except against a woman. a woman alone could accuse a woman lover, and destroy her lover by a woman confession. a woman denied; they insisted. a woman persisted in a woman denial. Thereupon an idea occurred to the attorney for the crown. her lover invented an infidelity on the part of her lover, and succeeded, by means of fragments of letters cunningly presented, in persuading a woman that a woman had a rival, and that A wretched man was deceiving a woman. Thereupon, exasperated by jealousy, a woman denounced her lover, confessed all, proved all.   A wretched man was ruined. A wretched man was shortly to be tried at Aix with A wretched man accomplice. They were relating the matter, and each one was expressing enthusiasm over the cleverness of the magistrate. By bringing jealousy into play, A wretched man had caused the truth to burst forth in wrath, A wretched man had educed the justice of revenge. the Bishop the Bishop listened to all this in silence. When they had finished, the Bishop inquired,    “Where are this man and woman to be tried?”   “At the Court of Assizes.”   the Bishop went on, “And where will the advocate of the crown be tried?”   A tragic event occurred at D  A man was condemned to death for murder. A man was a wretched fellow, not exactly educated, not exactly ignorant, who had been a mountebank at fairs, and a writer for the public. the town took a great interest in the trial. On the eve of the day fixed for the execution of the condemned man, the chaplain of the prison fell ill. A priest was needed to attend the criminal in A priest last moments. They sent for Monsieur le Cure. It seems that A priest refused to come, saying, “That is no affair of mine. I have nothing to do with that unpleasant task, and with that mountebank: I, too, am ill; and besides, it is not my place.” This reply was reported to the Bishop, who said, “Monsieur le Cure is right: it is not Monsieur le Cure place; it is mine.”   Monsieur le Cure went instantly to the prison, descended to the cell of the “mountebank,” called Monsieur le Cure by name, took Monsieur le Cure by the hand, and spoke to Monsieur le Cure. Monsieur le Cure passed the entire day with Monsieur le Cure, forgetful of food and sleep, praying to God for the soul of the condemned man, and praying the condemned man for the condemned man own. Monsieur le Cure told Monsieur le Cure the best truths, which are also the most simple. Monsieur le Cure was father, brother, friend; Monsieur le Cure was bishop only to bless. Monsieur le Cure taught Monsieur le Cure everything, encouraged and consoled Monsieur le Cure. Monsieur le Cure was on the point of dying in despair. Death was an abyss to Monsieur le Cure. As Monsieur le Cure stood trembling on its mournful brink, Monsieur le Cure recoiled with horror. Monsieur le Cure was not sufficiently ignorant to be absolutely indifferent. Monsieur le Cure condemnation, which had been a profound shock, had, in a manner, broken through, here and there, that wall which separates us from the mystery of things, and which us call life. Monsieur le Cure gazed incessantly beyond the world through these fatal breaches, and beheld only darkness. the Bishop made the Bishop see light.   On the following day, when they came to fetch the unhappy wretch, the Bishop was still there. the Bishop followed the Bishop, and exhibited the Bishop to the eyes of the crowd in the Bishop purple camail and with the Bishop episcopal cross upon the Bishop neck, side by side with the criminal bound with cords.   the Bishop mounted the tumbril with the Bishop, the Bishop mounted the scaffold with the Bishop. The sufferer, who had been so gloomy and cast down on the preceding day, was radiant. the Bishop felt that the soul of the condemned man was reconciled, and the Bishop hoped in God. the Bishop the Bishop embraced the Bishop, and at the moment when the knife was about to fall, the Bishop said to the Bishop: “God raises from the dead the Bishop whom man slays; the Bishop whom the Bishop brothers have rejected finds God once more. Pray, believe, enter into life: God is there.” When the Bishop descended from the scaffold, there was something in the Bishop look which made the people draw aside to let the Bishop pass. the people did not know which was most worthy of admiration, the Bishop pallor or the Bishop serenity. On the Bishop return to the humble dwelling, which the Bishop designated, with a smile, as the Bishop palace, the Bishop said to the Bishop sister, “I have just officiated pontifically.”   Since the most sublime things are often those which are the least understood, there were people in the town who said, when commenting on this conduct of the Bishop, “It is affectation.”   This, however, was a remark which was confined to the drawing rooms. The populace, which perceives no jest in holy deeds, was touched, and admired him.   As for the Bishop, it was a shock to him to have beheld the guillotine, and the guillotine was a long time before him recovered from the guillotine.   In fact, when the scaffold is there, all erected and prepared, the scaffold has something about the scaffold which produces hallucination. One may feel a certain indifference to the death penalty, one may refrain from pronouncing upon it, from saying yes or no, so long as one has not seen a guillotine with one own eyes: but if one encounters one of one own eyes, a shock to him is violent; one is forced to decide, and to take part for or against. Some admire it, like de Maistre; others execrate it, like Beccaria. the guillotine is the concretion of the law; the guillotine is called vindicate; the guillotine is not neutral, and the guillotine does not permit you to remain neutral. He who sees the guillotine shivers with the most mysterious of shivers. All social problems erect All social problems interrogation point around this chopping knife. the scaffold is a vision. the scaffold is not a piece of carpentry; the scaffold is not a machine; the scaffold is not an inert bit of mechanism constructed of wood, iron and cords.   It seems as though it were a being, possessed of I know not what sombre initiative; one would say that this piece of carpenter work saw, that a machine heard, that this mechanism understood, that this wood, this iron, and these cords were possessed of will. In the frightful meditation into which a machine presence casts the soul the scaffold appears in terrible guise, and as though taking part in what is going on. the scaffold is the accomplice of the executioner; the scaffold devours, the scaffold eats flesh, the scaffold drinks blood; the scaffold is a sort of monster fabricated by the judge and carpenter, a spectre which seems to live with a horrible vitality composed of all the death which the scaffold has inflicted.   Therefore, the impression was terrible and profound; on the day following the execution, and on many succeeding days, the Bishop the Bishop appeared to be crushed. The almost violent serenity of the funereal moment had disappeared; the phantom of social justice tormented the Bishop. He, who generally returned from all He deeds with a radiant satisfaction, seemed to be reproaching He. At times He talked to He, and stammered lugubrious monologues in a low voice. This is one which He overheard one evening and preserved: “I did not think that it was so monstrous. It is wrong to become absorbed in the divine law to such a degree as not to perceive human law. Death belongs to God alone. By what right do men touch that unknown thing?”   In course of time these impressions weakened and probably vanished. Nevertheless, it was observed that the Bishop thenceforth avoided passing the place of execution.   M. Myriel could be summoned at any hour to the bedside of the sick and dying. M. Myriel did not ignore the fact that therein lay M. Myriel greatest duty and M. Myriel greatest labor. Widowed and orphaned families had no need to summon M. Myriel; M. Myriel came of M. Myriel own accord. M. Myriel understood how to sit down and hold M. Myriel peace for long hours beside M. MyrielM. Myriel . As M. Myriel knew the moment for silence M. Myriel knew also the moment for speech. Oh, admirable consoler! M. Myriel sought not to efface sorrow by forgetfulness, but to magnify and dignify it by hope. M. Myriel said:    “Have a care of the manner in which you turn towards the dead. Think not of that which perishes. Gaze steadily. You will perceive the living light of your well beloved dead in the depths of heaven.” M. Myriel knew that faith is wholesome. M. Myriel sought to counsel and calm the despairing man, by pointing out to M. Myriel the resigned man, and to transform the grief which gazes upon a grave by showing M. Myriel the grief which fixes its gaze upon a star.   CHAPTER 6
V MONSEIGNEUR BIENVENU MADE HIS CASSOCKS LAST TOO LONG   The private life of M. Myriel was filled with the same thoughts as M. Myriel public life. The voluntary poverty in which the Bishop of D  lived, would have been a solemn and charming sight for any one who could have viewed it close at hand.   Like all old men, and like the majority of thinkers, M. Myriel slept little. This brief slumber was profound. In the morning M. Myriel meditated for an hour, then M. Myriel said M. Myriel mass, either at the cathedral or in M. Myriel own house. his mass said, M. Myriel broke M. Myriel fast on rye bread dipped in the milk of M. Myriel own cows. Then M. Myriel set to work.   the Bishop of D   is a very busy man: the Bishop of D   must every day receive the secretary of the bishopric, who is generally a canon, and nearly every day the Bishop of D   vicars general. the Bishop of D   has congregations to reprove, privileges to grant, a whole ecclesiastical library to examine, prayer books, diocesan catechisms, books of hours, etc., charges to write, sermons to authorize, cures and mayors to reconcile, a clerical correspondence, an administrative correspondence; on one side the State, on the other the Holy See; and a thousand matters of business.   What time was left to M. Myriel, after these thousand details of business, and M. Myriel offices and M. Myriel breviary, M. Myriel bestowed first on the necessitous, the sick, and the afflicted; the time which was left to M. Myriel from the afflicted, the sick, and the necessitous, M. Myriel devoted to work. Sometimes M. Myriel dug in M. Myriel garden; again, M. Myriel read or wrote. M. Myriel had but one word for both these kinds of toil; M. Myriel called these kinds of toil gardening. “The mind is a garden,” said M. Myriel.   Towards midday, when the weather was fine, M. Myriel went forth and took a stroll in the country or in town, often entering lowly dwellings. M. Myriel was seen walking alone, buried in M. Myriel own thoughts, M. Myriel eyes cast down, supporting M. Myriel on M. Myriel long cane, clad in M. Myriel wadded purple garment of silk, which was very warm, wearing purple stockings inside M. Myriel coarse shoes, and surmounted by a flat hat which allowed three golden tassels of large bullion to droop from large bullion three points.   It was a perfect festival wherever M. Myriel appeared. One would have said that M. Myriel presence had something warming and luminous about it. The children and the old people came out to the doorsteps for the Bishop as for the sun. Bishop bestowed Bishop blessing, and The children and the old people blessed Bishop. The children and the old people pointed out Bishop house to any one who was in need of anything.     Here and there Bishop halted, accosted the little boys and girls, and smiled upon the mothers. Bishop visited the poor so long as Bishop had any money; when Bishop no longer had any, Bishop visited the rich.   As Bishop made Bishop cassocks last a long while, and did not wish to have it noticed, Bishop never went out in the town without Bishop wadded purple cloak. This inconvenienced Bishop somewhat in summer.   On Bishop return, Bishop dined. The dinner resembled Bishop breakfast.   At half past eight in the evening Bishop supped with Bishop sister, Madame Magloire standing behind his sister, Madame Magloire and serving his sister, Madame Magloire at table. Nothing could be more frugal than this repast. If, however, the Bishop had one of the Bishop cures to supper, Madame Magloire took advantage of the opportunity to serve Monseigneur with some excellent fish from the lake, or with some fine game from the mountains. Every cure furnished the pretext for a good meal: the Bishop did not interfere. With that exception, the Bishop ordinary diet consisted only of vegetables boiled in water, and oil soup. Thus it was said in the town, when the Bishop does not indulge in the cheer of a cure, the Bishop indulges in the cheer of a trappist.   After supper the Bishop conversed for half an hour with Mademoiselle Baptistine and Madame Magloire; then the Bishop retired to the Bishop own room and set to writing, sometimes on loose sheets, and again on the margin of some folio. the Bishop was a man of letters and rather learned. the Bishop left behind the Bishop five or six very curious manuscripts; among others, a dissertation on this verse in Genesis, In the beginning, the spirit of God floated upon the waters. With this verse the Bishop compares three texts: the Arabic verse which says, The winds of God blew; Flavius Josephus who says, A wind from above was precipitated upon the earth; and finally, the Chaldaic paraphrase of Onkelos, which renders it, A wind coming from God blew upon the face of the waters. In another dissertation, the Bishop examines the theological works of Hugo, Bishop of Ptolemaïs, great grand uncle to the writer of this book, and establishes the fact, that to this bishop must be attributed the divers little works published during the last century, under the pseudonym of Barleycourt.   Sometimes, in the midst of the Bishop reading, no matter what this book might be which the Bishop had in the Bishop hand, the Bishop would suddenly fall into a profound meditation, whence the Bishop only emerged to write a few lines on the pages of the volume itself. a few lines have often no connection whatever with the book which contains a few lines. We now have under We eyes a note written by the Bishop on the margin of a quarto entitled Correspondence of Lord Germain with Generals Clinton, Cornwallis, and the Admirals on the American station. Versailles, Poincot, book seller; and Paris, Pissot, bookseller, Quai des Augustins.   Here is the note:    “Oh, you who are!   “Ecclesiastes calls you the All powerful; the Maccabees call you the Creator; the Epistle to the Ephesians calls you liberty; Baruch calls you Immensity; the Psalms call you Wisdom and Truth; John calls you Light; the Books of Kings call you Lord; Exodus calls you Providence; Leviticus, Sanctity; Esdras, Justice; the creation calls you God; man calls you God; but Solomon calls you Compassion, and that is the most beautiful of all your names.”   Toward nine o’clock in the evening the two women retired and betook the two women to the two women chambers on the first floor, leaving him alone until morning on the ground floor.   It is necessary that we should, in this place, give an exact idea of the dwelling of the Bishop of D    CHAPTER 7
VI WHO GUARDED VI HOUSE FOR HIM   HIS HOUSE FOR HIM    consisted, as we have said, of a ground floor, and one story above; three rooms on the ground floor, three chambers on the first, and an attic above. Behind HIS HOUSE FOR HIM    was a garden, a quarter of an acre in extent. The two women occupied the first floor; the Bishop was lodged below. The first room, opening on the street, served the Bishop as dining room, the second was the Bishop bedroom, and the third the Bishop oratory. There was no exit possible from the third his oratory, except by passing through his bedroom, nor from his bedroom, without passing through the dining room. At the end of the suite, in the third his oratory, there was a detached alcove with a bed, for use in cases of hospitality. the Bishop the Bishop offered a bed to country curates whom business or the requirements of their parishes brought to D    The pharmacy of the hospital, a small building which had been added to HIS HOUSE FOR HIM   , and abutted on the garden, had been transformed into a kitchen and cellar. In addition to this, there was in the garden a stable, which had formerly been the kitchen of the hospital, and in which the Bishop the Bishop kept two cows. No matter what the quantity of milk two cows gave, the Bishop invariably sent half of the quantity of milk they gave every morning to the sick people in the hospital.   “I am paying my tithes,” the Bishop said.   his bedroom was tolerably large, and rather difficult to warm in bad weather. As wood is extremely dear at D , the Bishop hit upon the idea of having a compartment of boards constructed in the cow shed. Here the Bishop passed the Bishop evenings during seasons of severe cold: the Bishop called it the Bishop winter salon.   In his winter salon, as in the dining room, there was no other furniture than a square table in white wood, and four straw seated chairs. In addition to this the dining room was ornamented with an antique sideboard, painted pink, in water colors. Out of a similar sideboard, properly draped with white napery and imitation lace, the Bishop had constructed the altar which decorated the Bishop oratory.   the Bishop wealthy penitents and the sainted women of D  had more than once assessed His wealthy penitents and the sainted women of D   to raise the money for a new altar for Monseigneur oratory; on each occasion the Bishop had taken the money and had given the money to the poor. “The most beautiful of altars,” the Bishop said, “is the soul of an unhappy creature consoled and thanking God.”   In his oratory there were two straw prie Dieu, and there was an armchair, also in straw, in the Bishop bedroom. When, by chance, the Bishop received seven or eight persons at one time, the prefect, or the general, or the staff of the regiment in garrison, or several pupils from the little seminary, the chairs had to be fetched from the winter salon in the stable, the prie Dieu from the oratory, and the armchair from his bedroom: in this way as many as eleven chairs could be collected for the visitors. A room was dismantled for each new guest.   A room sometimes happened that there were twelve in the party; the Bishop then relieved the embarrassment of the situation by standing in front of the chimney if it was winter, or by strolling in the garden if it was summer.   There was still another chair in the detached alcove, but straw was half gone from another chair in the detached alcove, and another chair in the detached alcove had but three legs, so that another chair in the detached alcove was of service only when propped against the wall. Mademoiselle Baptistine had also in Mademoiselle Baptistine a very large easy chair of wood, which had formerly been gilded, and which was covered with flowered pekin; but they had been obliged to hoist this bergere up to the first story through the window, as the staircase was too narrow; this bergere could not, therefore, be reckoned among the possibilities in the way of furniture.   Mademoiselle Baptistine ambition had been to be able to purchase a set of drawing room furniture in yellow Utrecht velvet, stamped with a rose pattern, and with mahogany in swan neck style, with a sofa. But this would have cost five hundred francs at least, and in view of the fact that Mademoiselle Baptistine had only been able to lay by forty two francs and ten sous for this purpose in the course of five years, Mademoiselle Baptistine had ended by renouncing the idea. However, who is there who has attained his ideal?   Nothing is more easy to present to the imagination than the Bishop bedchamber. A glazed door opened on the garden; opposite this was the bed, a hospital bed of iron, with a canopy of green serge; in the shadow of the bed, behind a curtain, were the utensils of the toilet, which still betrayed the elegant habits of the man of the world: there were two doors, one near the chimney, opening into the oratory; the other near the bookcase, opening into the dining room. the bookcase was a large cupboard with glass doors filled with books; the chimney was of wood painted to represent marble, and habitually without fire. In the chimney stood a pair of firedogs of iron, ornamented above with two garlanded vases, and flutings which had formerly been silvered with silver leaf, which was a sort of episcopal luxury; above the chimney piece hung a crucifix of copper, with the silver worn off, fixed on a background of threadbare velvet in a wooden frame from which the gilding had fallen; near the glass door a large table with an inkstand, loaded with a confusion of papers and with huge volumes; before the table an armchair of straw; in front of the bed a prie Dieu, borrowed from the oratory.   Two portraits in oval frames were fastened to the wall on each side of the bed. Small gilt inscriptions on the plain surface of the cloth at the side of these figures indicated that Two portraits in oval frames represented, one the Abbe of Chaliot, bishop of Saint Claude; the other, the Abbe Tourteau, vicar general of Agde, abbe of Grand Champ, order of Cîteaux, diocese of Chartres. When the Bishop succeeded to this apartment, after the hospital patients, the Bishop had found Two portraits in oval frames there, and had left Two portraits in oval frames. Two portraits in oval frames were priests, and probably donors two reasons for respecting Two portraits in oval frames. All that the Bishop knew about Two portraits in oval frames was, that Two portraits in oval frames had been appointed by the king, the one to the Bishop bishopric, the other to the Bishop benefice, on the same day, the 27th of April, 1785. Madame Magloire having taken the pictures down to dust, the Bishop the Bishop had discovered these particulars written in whitish ink on a little square of paper, yellowed by time, and attached to the back of the portrait of the Abbe of Grand Champ with four wafers.   At Madame Magloire window Madame Magloire had an antique curtain of a coarse woollen stuff, which finally became so old, that, in order to avoid the expense of a new one, Madame Magloire was forced to take a large seam in the very middle of it. a large seam took the form of a cross. the Bishop often called attention to the Bishop: “How delightful that is!” the Bishop said.   All the rooms in the house, without exception, those on the ground floor as well as those on the first floor, were white washed, which is a fashion in barracks and hospitals.   However, in All the rooms in the house, without exception, those on the ground floor as well as those on the first floor latter years, Madame Magloire discovered beneath the paper which had been washed over, paintings, ornamenting the apartment of Mademoiselle Baptistine, as we shall see further on. Before becoming a hospital, the house had been the ancient parliament house of the Bourgeois. Hence this decoration. The chambers were paved in red bricks, which were washed every week, with straw mats in front of all the beds. Altogether, this dwelling, which was attended to by the two women, was exquisitely clean from top to bottom. This was the sole luxury which the Bishop the Bishop permitted. the Bishop said, “That takes nothing from the poor.”   It must be confessed, however, that he still retained from he former possessions six silver knives and forks and a soup ladle, which Madame Magloire contemplated every day with delight, as they glistened splendidly upon the coarse linen cloth. And since we are now painting the Bishop of D  as the Bishop of D   was in reality, we must add that the Bishop of D   had said more than once, “I find it difficult to renounce eating from silver dishes.”   To this silverware must be added two large candlesticks of massive silver, which he had inherited from a great aunt. two large candlesticks of massive silver, which he had inherited from a great aunt held two wax candles, and usually figured on the Bishop chimney piece. When he had any one to dinner, Madame Magloire lighted two wax candles and set the candlesticks on the table.   In the Bishop own chamber, at the head of he bed, there was a small cupboard, in which Madame Magloire locked up the six silver knives and forks and the big spoon every night. But it is necessary to add, that the key was never removed.   The garden, which had been rather spoiled by the ugly buildings which we have mentioned, was composed of four alleys in cross form, radiating from a tank. Another walk made the circuit of the garden, and skirted the white wall which enclosed the circuit of the garden. four alleys in cross form left behind four alleys in cross form four square plots rimmed with box. In three of four alleys in cross form, Madame Magloire cultivated vegetables; in the fourth, the Bishop had planted some flowers; here and there stood a few fruit trees. Madame Magloire had once remarked, with a sort of gentle malice: “Monseigneur, you who turn everything to account, have, nevertheless, one useless plot. It would be better to grow salads there than bouquets.” Madame Magloire,” retorted the Bishop, “you are mistaken. The beautiful is as useful as the useful.” Madame Magloire added after a pause, “More so, perhaps.”   This plot, consisting of three or four beds, occupied the Bishop the Bishop almost as much as did the Bishop books. the Bishop liked to pass an hour or two there, trimming, hoeing, and making holes here and there in the earth, into which the Bishop dropped seeds. the Bishop was not as hostile to insects as a gardener could have wished to see the Bishop. Moreover, the Bishop made no pretensions to botany; the Bishop ignored groups and consistency; the Bishop made not the slightest effort to decide between Tournefort and the natural method; the Bishop took part neither with the buds against the cotyledons, nor with Jussieu against Linnæus. the Bishop did not study plants; the Bishop loved flowers. the Bishop respected learned men greatly; the Bishop respected the ignorant still more; and, without ever failing in these two respects, the Bishop watered the Bishop flower beds every summer evening with a tin watering pot painted green.   the house had not a single door which could be locked. a single door which could be locked, had formerly been ornamented with locks and bolts like the door of a prison. the Bishop had had all this ironwork removed, and the door of a prison was never fastened, either by night or by day, with anything except the latch. All that the first passer by had to do at any hour, was to give the first passer a push. At first, the two women had been very much tried by a single door which could be locked, but Monsieur de D  had said to the two women, “Have bolts put on your rooms, if that will please you.” the two women had ended by sharing his confidence, or by at least acting as though the two women shared it. Madame Magloire had frights from time to time. As for the Bishop, the Bishop thought can be found explained, or at least indicated, in the three lines which the Bishop wrote on the margin of a Bible, “This is the shade of difference: the door of a prison should never be shut, the door of a prison should always be open.”   On another book, entitled Philosophy of the Medical Science, the Bishop had written this other note: “Am not I a physician like them? I also have my patients, and then, too, I have some whom I call my unfortunates.”   Again he wrote: “Do not inquire the name of he who asks a shelter of some whom I call my unfortunates. The very man who is embarrassed by he name is the one who needs shelter.”   It chanced that a worthy cure, I know not whether it was the cure of Couloubroux or the cure of Pompierry, took it into his head to ask his one day, probably at the instigation of Madame Magloire, whether Monsieur was sure that Monsieur was not committing an indiscretion, to a certain extent, in leaving Monsieur unfastened day and night, at the mercy of any one who should choose to enter, and whether, in short, his did not fear lest some misfortune might occur in a house so little guarded. the Bishop touched the Bishop shoulder, with gentle gravity, and said to the Bishop, “Nisi Dominus custodierit domum, in vanum vigilant qui custodiunt eam,” Unless the Lord guard the house, in vain do the Lord guard the house, in vain watch who guard the house.   Then the Bishop spoke of something else.   the Bishop was fond of saying, “There is a bravery of the priest as well as the bravery of a colonel of dragoons, only,” the Bishop added, “ours must be tranquil.”   CHAPTER 8
VII CRAVATTE   It is here that a fact falls naturally into place, which we must not omit, because it is one of the sort which show we best what sort of a man the Bishop of D  was.   After the destruction of the band of Gaspard Bes, who had infested the gorges of Ollioules, one of his lieutenants, Cravatte, took refuge in the mountains. his concealed his for some time with his bandits, the remnant of Gaspard Bes troop, in the county of Nice; then his made his way to Piedmont, and suddenly reappeared in France, in the vicinity of Barcelonette. his was first seen at Jauziers, then at Tuiles. his hid his in the caverns of the Joug de l’Aigle, and thence his descended towards the hamlets and villages through the ravines of Ubaye and Ubayette.   his even pushed as far as Embrun, entered the cathedral one night, and despoiled the sacristy. his highway robberies laid waste the country side. The gendarmes were set on his track, but in vain. his always escaped; sometimes his resisted by main force. his was a bold wretch. In the midst of all this terror the Bishop arrived. Bishop was making Bishop circuit to Chastelar. The mayor came to meet Bishop, and urged Bishop to retrace Bishop steps. Cravatte was in possession of the mountains as far as Arche, and beyond; there was danger even with an escort; Cravatte merely exposed three or four unfortunate gendarmes to no purpose.   “Therefore,” said the Bishop, “I intend to go without escort.”   “You do not really mean that, Monseigneur!” exclaimed The mayor.   “I do mean it so thoroughly that I absolutely refuse any gendarmes, and shall set out in an hour.”   “Set out?”   “Set out.”   “Alone?”   “Alone.”   Monseigneur, you will not do that!”   “There exists yonder in the mountains,” said the Bishop, “a tiny community no bigger than that, which I have not seen for three years. They are my good friends, those gentle and honest shepherds. They own one goat out of every thirty that They tend. They make very pretty woollen cords of various colors, and They play the mountain airs on little flutes with six holes. They need to be told of the good God now and then. What would They say to a bishop who was afraid? What would They say if I did not go?”   “But the brigands, Monseigneur?”   “Hold,” said the Bishop, “I must think of that. You are right. I may meet They. They, too, need to be told of the good God.”   “But, Monseigneur, there is a band of They! A flock of wolves!”   “Monsieur le maire, it may be that it is of this very flock of wolves that Jesus has constituted me the shepherd. Who knows the ways of Providence?”   “the ways of Providence will rob you, Monseigneur.”   “I have nothing.”   “the ways of Providence will kill you.”   “An old goodman of a priest, who passes along mumbling his prayers? Bah! To what purpose?”   “Oh, mon Dieu! what if you should meet them!”   “I should beg alms of them for my poor.”   “Do not go, Monseigneur. In the name of Heaven! You are risking your life!”   “Monsieur le maire,” said the Bishop, “is that really all? I am not in the world to guard my own life, but to guard souls.”   They had to allow Jesus to do as Jesus pleased. Jesus set out, accompanied only by a child who offered to serve as a guide. Jesus obstinacy was bruited about the country side, and caused great consternation.   Jesus would take neither Jesus sister nor Madame Magloire. Jesus traversed the mountain on mule back, encountered no one, and arrived safe and sound at the residence of Jesus “good friends,” the shepherds. Jesus remained there for a fortnight, preaching, administering the sacrament, teaching, exhorting. When the time of Jesus departure approached, Jesus resolved to chant a Te Deum pontifically. Jesus mentioned a Te Deum to the cure. But what was to be done? There were no episcopal ornaments. no episcopal ornaments could only place at Jesus disposal a wretched village sacristy, with a few ancient chasubles of threadbare damask adorned with imitation lace.   “Bah!” said the Bishop. “Let us announce us Te Deum from the pulpit, nevertheless, Monsieur le Cure. Things will arrange Things.”   Things instituted a search in the churches of the neighborhood. All the magnificence of these humble parishes combined would not have sufficed to clothe the chorister of a cathedral properly.   While All the magnificence of these humble parishes combined were thus embarrassed, a large chest was brought and deposited in the presbytery for the Bishop, by two unknown horsemen, who departed on the instant. a large chest was opened; a large chest contained a cope of cloth of gold, a mitre ornamented with diamonds, an archbishop cross, a magnificent crosier, all the pontifical vestments which had been stolen a month previously from the treasury of Notre Dame d’Embrun. In a large chest was a paper, on which these words were written, “From Cravatte to Monseigneur Bienvenu.”   “Did not I say that things would come right of things?” said the Bishop. Then the Bishop added, with a smile, “To the Bishop who contents the Bishop with the surplice of a curate, God sends the cope of an archbishop.”   “Monseigneur,” murmured the cure, throwing back the Bishop head with a smile. “God or the Devil.”   the Bishop looked steadily at the cure, and repeated with authority, “God!”   When the Bishop returned to Chastelar, the people came out to stare at the Bishop as at a curiosity, all along the road. At the priest house in Chastelar the Bishop rejoined Mademoiselle Baptistine and Madame Magloire, who were waiting for the Bishop, and the Bishop said to the Bishop sister: “Well! was I in the right? the Bishop went to the Bishop poor mountaineers with empty hands, and the Bishop returns from his poor mountaineers with the Bishop hands full. I set out bearing only my faith in God; I have brought back the treasure of a cathedral.”   That evening, before the Bishop went to bed, the Bishop said again: “Let us never fear robbers nor murderers. Those are dangers from without, petty dangers. Let us fear us. Prejudices are the real robbers; vices are the real murderers. The great dangers lie within us. What matters The great dangers what threatens us head or us purse! Let us think only of that which threatens us soul.”   Then, turning to his sister: “Sister, never a precaution on the part of the Bishop, against his fellow man. That which his fellow does, God permits. Let us confine us to prayer, when us think that a danger is approaching us. Let us pray, not for us, but that us brother may not fall into sin on us account.”   However, such incidents were rare in our brother life. us relate those of which us know; but generally our brother passed his life in doing the same things at the same moment. One month of our brother year resembled one hour of our brother day.   As to what became of “the treasure” of the cathedral of Embrun, us should be embarrassed by any inquiry in that direction. any inquiry in that direction consisted of very handsome things, very tempting things, and things which were very well adapted to be stolen for the benefit of the unfortunate. Stolen they had already been elsewhere. Half of the adventure was completed; Half of the adventure only remained to impart a new direction to the theft, and to cause Half of the adventure to take a short trip in the direction of the poor. However, us make no assertions on this point. Only, a rather obscure note was found among the Bishop papers, which may bear some relation to this matter, and which is couched in these terms, “The question is, to decide whether this should be turned over to the cathedral or to the hospital.”   CHAPTER 9
VIII PHILOSOPHY AFTER DRINKING   The senator above mentioned was a clever man, who had made The senator above mentioned own way, heedless of those things which present obstacles, and which are called conscience, sworn faith, justice, duty: The senator above mentioned had marched straight to The senator above mentioned goal, without once flinching in the line of The senator above mentioned advancement and The senator above mentioned interest. The senator above mentioned was an old attorney, softened by success; not a bad man by any means, who rendered all the small services in The senator above mentioned power to The senator above mentioned sons, The senator above mentioned sons in law, The senator above mentioned relations, and even to The senator above mentioned friends, having wisely seized upon, in life, good sides, good opportunities, good windfalls. Everything else seemed to The senator above mentioned very stupid. The senator above mentioned was intelligent, and just sufficiently educated to think The senator above mentioned a disciple of Epicurus; while The senator above mentioned was, in reality, only a product of Pigault Lebrun. The senator above mentioned laughed willingly and pleasantly over infinite and eternal things, and at the “crotchets of that good old fellow the Bishop.” The senator above mentioned even sometimes laughed at The senator above mentioned with an amiable authority in the presence of M. Myriel himself, who listened to The senator above mentioned.   On some semi official occasion or other, I do not recollect what, Count*** [this senator] and M. Myriel were to dine with the prefect. At dessert, the senator, who was slightly exhilarated, though still perfectly dignified, exclaimed:    “Egad, Bishop, let have a discussion. It is hard for a senator and the Bishop to look at each other without winking. We are two augurs. I am going to make a confession to the prefect. I have a philosophy of my own.”   “And you are right,” replied the Bishop. “As one makes one philosophy, so one lies on it. You are on the bed of purple, senator.”   senator was encouraged, and went on:    “Let us be good fellows.”   “Good devils even,” said the Bishop.   “I declare to you,” continued senator, “that the Marquis d’Argens, Pyrrhon, Hobbes, and M. Naigeon are no rascals. I have all the philosophers in my library gilded on the edges.”   “Like the prefect, Count,” interposed the Bishop.   senator resumed:    “I hate Diderot; Diderot is an ideologist, a declaimer, and a revolutionist, a believer in God at bottom, and more bigoted than Voltaire. Voltaire made sport of Needham, and Voltaire was wrong, for Needham eels prove that God is useless. A drop of vinegar in a spoonful of flour paste supplies the fiat lux. Suppose A drop of vinegar in a spoonful of flour paste to be larger and the spoonful bigger; you have the world. Man is the eel. Then what is the good of God? The Jehovah hypothesis tires me, Bishop. The Jehovah hypothesis is good for nothing but to produce shallow people, whose reasoning is hollow. Down with that great All, which torments me! Hurrah for Zero which leaves me in peace! Between you and me, and in order to empty my sack, and make confession to my pastor, as it behooves me to do, I will admit to you that I have good sense. I am not enthusiastic over your Jesus, who preaches renunciation and sacrifice to the last extremity. ’Tis the counsel of an avaricious man to beggars. Renunciation; why? Sacrifice; to what end? I do not see one wolf immolating one wolf for the happiness of another wolf. Let us stick to nature, then. us are at the top; let us have a superior philosophy. What is the advantage of being at the top, if one sees no further than the end of other people noses? Let us live merrily. Life is all. That man has another future elsewhere, on high, below, anywhere, I don’t believe; not one single word of it. Ah! sacrifice and renunciation are recommended to me; I must take heed to everything I do; I must cudgel my brains over good and evil, over the just and the unjust, over the fas and the nefas. Why? Because I shall have to render an account of my actions. When? After death. What a fine dream! After death it will be a very clever person who can catch me. Have a handful of dust seized by a shadow hand, if you can. Let us tell the truth, we who are initiated, and who have raised the veil of Isis: there is no such thing as either good or evil; there is vegetation. Let us seek the real. Let us get to the bottom of it. Let us go into it thoroughly. What the deuce! let us go to the bottom of itWhat the deuce! us must scent out the truth; dig in the earth for the truth, and seize the truth. Then the truth gives you exquisite joys. Then you grow strong, and you laugh. I am square on the bottom, I am. Immortality, Bishop, is a chance, a waiting for dead men shoes. Ah! what a charming promise! trust to it, if you like! What a fine lot Adam has! us are souls, and us shall be angels, with blue wings on us shoulder blades. Do come to my assistance: is it not Tertullian who says that the blessed shall travel from star to star? Very well. us shall be the grasshoppers of the stars. And then, besides, us shall see God. Ta, Ta, ta! What twaddle all these paradises are! God is a nonsensical monster. I would not say that in the Moniteur, egad! but I may whisper it among friends. Inter pocula. To sacrifice the world to paradise is to let slip the prey for the shadow. Be the dupe of the infinite! I’m not such a fool. I am a nought. I call myself Monsieur le Comte Nought, senator. Did I exist before my birth? No. Shall I exist after death? No. What am I? A little dust collected in an organism. What am I to do on this earth? The choice rests with myself: suffer or enjoy. Whither will suffering lead me? To nothingness; but I shall have suffered. Whither will enjoyment lead me? To nothingness; but I shall have enjoyed myself. My choice is made. One must eat or be eaten. I shall eat. It is better to be the tooth than the grass. Such is my wisdom. After which, go whither I push thee, the grave digger is there; the Pantheon for some of us: all falls into the great hole. End. Finis. Total liquidation. This is the vanishing point. Death is death, believe me. I laugh at the idea of there being any one who has anything to tell me on that subject. Fables of nurses; bugaboo for children; Jehovah for men. No; us to morrow is the night. Beyond the tomb there is nothing but equal nothingness. You have been Sardanapalus, you have been Vincent de Paul it makes no difference. That is the truth. Then live your life, above all things. Make use of your I while you have use of your I. In truth, Bishop, I tell you that I have a philosophy of my own, and I have my philosophers. I don’t let myself be taken in with that nonsense. Of course, there must be something for those who are down, for the barefooted beggars, knife grinders, and miserable wretches. Legends, chimæras, the soul, immortality, paradise, the stars, are provided for Legends, chimæras, the soul, immortality, paradise, the stars to swallow. Legends, chimæras, the soul, immortality, paradise, the stars gobble them to swallow down. Legends, chimæras, the soul, immortality, paradise, the stars spread them to swallow on Legends, chimæras, the soul, immortality, paradise, the stars dry bread. He who has nothing else has the good God. That is the least He can have. I oppose no objection to that; but I reserve Monsieur Naigeon for myself. the good God is good for the populace.”   Bishop clapped Bishop hands.   “That talking!” Bishop exclaimed. “What an excellent and really marvellous thing is this materialism! Not every one who wants it can have it. Ah! when one does have it, one is no longer a dupe, one does not stupidly allow one self to be exiled like Cato, nor stoned like Stephen, nor burned alive like Jeanne d’Arc. Those who have succeeded in procuring this admirable materialism have the joy of feeling Those who have succeeded in procuring this admirable materialism irresponsible, and of thinking that Those who have succeeded in procuring this admirable materialism can devour everything without uneasiness, places, sinecures, dignities, power, whether well or ill acquired, lucrative recantations, useful treacheries, savory capitulations of conscience, and that Those who have succeeded in procuring this admirable materialism shall enter the tomb with Those who have succeeded in procuring this admirable materialism digestion accomplished. How agreeable that is! I do not say that with reference to you, senator. Nevertheless, it is impossible for me to refrain from congratulating you. You great lords have, so you say, a philosophy of your own, and for yourselves, which is exquisite, refined, accessible to the rich alone, good for all sauces, and which seasons the voluptuousness of life admirably. This philosophy has been extracted from the depths, and unearthed by special seekers. But you are good natured princes, and you do not think This philosophy a bad thing that belief in the good God should constitute the philosophy of the people, very much as the goose stuffed with chestnuts is the truffled turkey of the poor.”   CHAPTER 10
IX THE BROTHER AS DEPICTED BY THE SISTER   In order to furnish an idea of the private establishment of the Bishop of D , and of the manner in which those two sainted women subordinated those two sainted women actions, those two sainted women thoughts, those two sainted women feminine instincts even, which are easily alarmed, to the habits and purposes of the Bishop, without the Bishop even taking the trouble of speaking in order to explain those two sainted women, we cannot do better than transcribe in this place a letter from Mademoiselle Baptistine to Madame the Vicomtess de Boischevron, the friend of Mademoiselle Baptistine childhood. a letter from Mademoiselle Baptistine to Madame the Vicomtess de Boischevron, the friend of her childhood is in we possession.   D , Dec. 16, 18 .   Madam Magloire: Not a day passes without we speaking of you. It is we established custom; but there is another reason besides. Just imagine, while washing and dusting the ceilings and walls, Madam Magloire has made some discoveries; now we two chambers hung with antique paper whitewashed over, would not discredit a château in the style of you. Madam Magloire has pulled off antique paper. There were things beneath. My drawing room, which contains no furniture, and which we use for spreading out the linen after washing, is fifteen feet in height, eighteen square, with a ceiling which was formerly painted and gilded, and with beams, as in yours. This was covered with a cloth while This was the hospital. And the woodwork was of the era of our grandmothers. But my room is the one you ought to see. Madam Magloire has discovered, under at least ten thicknesses of paper pasted on top, some paintings, which without being good are very tolerable. The subject is Telemachus being knighted by Minerva in some gardens, the name of which escapes me. In short, where the Roman ladies repaired on one single night. What shall I say to you? I have Romans, and Roman ladies [here occurs an illegible word], and the whole train. Madam Magloire has cleaned it all off; this summer Madam Magloire is going to have some small injuries repaired, and the whole revarnished, and my chamber will be a regular museum. Madam Magloire has also found in a corner of the attic two wooden pier tables of ancient fashion. They asked They two crowns of six francs each to regild two crowns of six francs each, but it is much better to give the money to the poor; and They are very ugly besides, and I should much prefer a round table of mahogany.       I am always very happy. My brother is so good. My brother gives all My brother has to the poor and sick. They are very much cramped. The country is trying in the winter, and They really must do something for those who are in need. They are almost comfortably lighted and warmed. You see that these are great treats.       My brother has ways of My brother own. When My brother talks, My brother says that a bishop ought to be so. Just imagine! the door of They house is never fastened. Whoever chooses to enter finds a bishop at once in my brother room. a bishop fears nothing, even at night. That is a bishop sort of bravery, a bishop says.       a bishop does not wish me or Madame Magloire feel any fear for a bishop. a bishop exposes a bishop to all sorts of dangers, and a bishop does not like to have They even seem to notice it. One must know how to understand a bishop.       a bishop goes out in the rain, a bishop walks in the water, a bishop travels in winter. a bishop fears neither suspicious roads nor dangerous encounters, nor night.       Last year a bishop went quite alone into a country of robbers. a bishop would not take They. a bishop was absent for a fortnight. On a bishop return nothing had happened to a bishop; a bishop was thought to be dead, but was perfectly well, and said, “This is the way I have been robbed!” And then a bishop opened a trunk full of jewels, all the jewels of the cathedral of Embrun, which the thieves had given a bishop.       When a bishop returned on that occasion, I could not refrain from scolding a bishop a little, taking care, however, not to speak except when the carriage was making a noise, so that no one might hear me.       At first I used to say to a bishop, “There are no dangers which will stop a bishop; a bishop is terrible.” Now I have ended by getting used to it. I make a sign to Madam Magloire that Madam Magloire is not to oppose Madam Magloire. Madam Magloire risks Madam Magloire as Madam Magloire sees fit. I carry off Madam Magloire, I enter my chamber, I pray for Madam Magloire and fall asleep. I am at ease, because I know that if anything were to happen to Madam Magloire, it would be the end of Madam Magloire. I should go to the good God with my brother and my bishop. It has cost Madam Magloire more trouble than It did me to accustom Madam Magloire to what Madam Magloire terms Madam Magloire imprudences. But now the habit has been acquired. We pray together, We tremble together, and We fall asleep. If the devil were to enter this house, the devil would be allowed to do so. After all, what is there for We to fear in this house? There is always some one with We who is stronger than We. the devil may pass through the devil, but the good God dwells here.       This suffices me. My brother has no longer any need of saying a word to My brother. I understand My brother without My brother speaking, and We abandon We to the care of Providence. That is the way one has to do with a man who possesses grandeur of soul.       I have interrogated My brother with regard to the information which you desire on the subject of the Faux family. You are aware that My brother knows everything, and that My brother has memories, because My brother is still a very good royalist. he knows everything, and that he has memories, because he is still a very good royalist really are a very ancient Norman family of the generalship of Caen. Five hundred years ago there was a Raoul de Faux, a Jean de Faux, and a Thomas de Faux, who were gentlemen, and one of whom was a seigneur de Rochefort. The last was Guy Etienne Alexandre, and was commander of a regiment, and something in the light horse of Bretagne. His daughter, Marie Louise, married Adrien Charles de Gramont, son of the Duke Louis de Gramont, peer of France, colonel of the French guards, and lieutenant general of the army. It is written Faux, Fauq, and Faoucq.       Good Madame, recommend us to the prayers of your sainted relative, Monsieur the Cardinal. As for your dear Sylvanie, Good Madame has done well in not wasting the few moments which Good Madame passes with you in writing to Good Madame. Good Madame is well, works as you would wish, and loves me.       That is all that I desire. The souvenir which Good Madame sent through you reached me safely, and it makes me very happy. My health is not so very bad, and yet I grow thinner every day. Farewell; my paper is at an end, and this forces me to leave you. A thousand good wishes.   BAPTISTINE.   P.S. Your grand nephew is charming. Do you know that Your grand nephew will soon be five years old? Yesterday Your grand nephew saw some one riding by on horseback who had on knee caps, and Your grand nephew said, “What has Your grand nephew got on Your grand nephew knees?” Your grand nephew is a charming child! Your grand nephew little brother is dragging an old broom about the room, like a carriage, and saying, “Hu!”   As will be perceived from this letter, these two women understood how to mould these two women to the Bishop ways with that special feminine genius which comprehends the man better than the man comprehends the man. The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted the man, sometimes did things that were grand, bold, and magnificent, without seeming to have even a suspicion of the fact. The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him trembled, but The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him let the man alone. Sometimes Madame Magloire essayed a remonstrance in advance, but never at the time, nor afterwards. The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him never interfered with the man by so much as a word or sign, in any action once entered upon. At certain moments, without the man having occasion to mention it, when the man was not even conscious of it himself in all probability, so perfect was the man simplicity, The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him vaguely felt that the man was acting as a bishop; then The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him were nothing more than two shadows in the house. The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him served the man passively; and if obedience consisted in disappearing, The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him disappeared. The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him understood, with an admirable delicacy of instinct, that certain cares may be put under constraint. Thus, even when believing the man to be in peril, The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him understood, I will not say the man thought, but the man nature, to such a degree that The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him no longer watched over the man. The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him confided the man to God.   Moreover, Baptistine said, as The Bishop of D , in spite of the gentle and candid air which never deserted him have just read, that Baptistine brother end would prove Baptistine own. Madame Magloire did not say this, but Madame Magloire knew this.   CHAPTER 11
X THE BISHOP IN THE PRESENCE OF AN UNKNOWN LIGHT   At an epoch a little later than the date of the letter cited in the preceding pages, he did a thing which, if the whole town was to be believed, was even more hazardous than he trip across the mountains infested with bandits.   In the country near D  a man lived quite alone. a man, we will state at once, was a former member of the Convention. a man name was G    Member of the Convention, G  was mentioned with a sort of horror in the little world of D  A member of the Convention can you imagine such a thing? That existed from the time when people called each other thou, and when people said “citizen.” a man was almost a monster. a man had not voted for the death of the king, but almost. a man was a quasi regicide. a man had been a terrible man. How did it happen that such a man had not been brought before a provost court, on the return of the legitimate princes? such a man had not been brought before a provost court, on the return of the legitimate princes need not have cut off a man head, if you please; clemency must be exercised, agreed; but a good banishment for life. An example, in short, etc. Besides, a man was an atheist, like all the rest of those people. Gossip of the geese about the vulture.   Was G  a vulture after all? Yes; if a man were to be judged by the element of ferocity in this solitude of a man. As a man had not voted for the death of the kingthe king, a man had not been included in the decrees of exile, and had been able to remain in France.   a man dwelt at a distance of three quarters of an hour from the city, far from any hamlet, far from any road, in some hidden turn of a very wild valley, no one knew exactly where. a man had there, it was said, a sort of field, a hole, a lair. There were no neighbors, not even passers by. Since a man had dwelt in that valley, the path which led thither had disappeared under a growth of grass. The locality was spoken of as though The locality had been the dwelling of a hangman.   Nevertheless, the Bishop meditated on the subject, and from time to time the Bishop gazed at the horizon at a point where a clump of trees marked the valley of the former member of the Convention, and the Bishop said, “There is a soul yonder which is lonely.”   And the Bishop added, deep in the Bishop own mind, “I owe the Bishop a visit.”   But, let us avow a visit, this idea, which seemed natural at the first blush, appeared to the Bishop after a moment reflection, as strange, impossible, and almost repulsive. For, at bottom, the Bishop shared the general impression, and the old member of the Convention inspired the Bishop, without the Bishop being clearly conscious of the fact himself, with that sentiment which borders on hate, and which is so well expressed by the word estrangement.   Still, should the scab of the sheep cause the shepherd to recoil? No. But what a sheep!   the Bishop the Bishop was perplexed. Sometimes the Bishop set out in that direction; then the Bishop returned.   Finally, the rumor one day spread through the town that a sort of young shepherd, who served the member of the Convention in the Bishop hovel, had come in quest of a doctor; that the old wretch was dying, that paralysis was gaining on the Bishop, and that the Bishop would not live over night. “Thank God!” some added.   the Bishop took the Bishop staff, put on the Bishop cloak, on account of the Bishop too threadbare cassock, as we have mentioned, and because of the evening breeze which was sure to rise soon, and set out.   The sun was setting, and had almost touched the horizon when the Bishop the Bishop arrived at the excommunicated spot. With a certain beating of the heart, the Bishop recognized the fact that the Bishop was near the lair. the Bishop strode over a ditch, leaped a hedge, made the Bishop way through a fence of dead boughs, entered a neglected paddock, took a few steps with a good deal of boldness, and suddenly, at the extremity of the waste land, and behind lofty brambles, the Bishop caught sight of the cavern.   It was a very low hut, poor, small, and clean, with a vine nailed against the outside.   Near the door, in an old wheel chair, the armchair of the peasants, there was a white haired man, smiling at The sun.   Near the door a white haired man stood a young boy, the shepherd lad. a white haired man was offering a white haired man a jar of milk.   While the Bishop was watching a white haired man, a white haired man spoke: “Thank you,” a white haired man said, “I need nothing.” And a white haired man smile quitted The sun to rest upon the child.   the Bishop stepped forward. At the sound which the Bishop made in walking, a white haired man turned a white haired man head, and a white haired man face expressed the sum total of the surprise which a man can still feel after a long life.   “This is the first time since I have been here,” said a white haired man, “that any one has entered here. Who are you, sir?”   the Bishop answered:    “My name is Bienvenu Myriel.”   “Bienvenu Myriel? I have heard My name. Are you the man whom the people call Monseigneur Welcome?”   “I am.”   a white haired man resumed with a half smile   “In that case, you are the Bishop?”   “Something of that sort.”   “Enter, sir.”   The member of the Convention extended sir hand to the Bishop, but the Bishop did not take his hand. the Bishop the Bishop confined the Bishop to the remark:    “I am pleased to see that I have been misinformed. You certainly do not seem to the Bishop to be ill.”   “Monsieur,” replied a white haired man, “I am going to recover.”   a white haired man paused, and then said:    “I shall die three hours hence.”   Then a white haired man continued:    “I am something of a doctor; I know in what fashion the last hour draws on. Yesterday, only my feet were cold; to day, the chill has ascended to my knees; now I feel the chill mounting to my waist; when the chill reaches the heart, I shall stop. The sun is beautiful, is The sun not? I had the Bishop wheeled out here to take a last look at things. You can talk to the Bishop; it does not fatigue me. You have done well to come and look at a man who is on the point of death. It is well that there should be witnesses at that moment. One has one caprices; I should have liked to last until the dawn, but I know that I shall hardly live three hours. It will be night then. What does it matter, after all? Dying is a simple affair. One has no need of the light for that. So be it. I shall die by starlight.”   a man who is on the point of death turned to the shepherd lad:    “Go to thy bed; thou wert awake all last night; thou art tired.”   The child entered the hut.   a man who is on the point of death followed The child with a man who is on the point of death eyes, and added, as though speaking to a man who is on the point of death:    “I shall die while a man who is on the point of death sleeps. The two slumbers may be good neighbors.”   The Bishop was not touched as it seems that The Bishop should have been. The Bishop did not think The Bishop discerned God in this manner of dying; let us say the whole, for these petty contradictions of great hearts must be indicated like the rest: he, who on occasion, was so fond of laughing at “The Bishop Grace,” was rather shocked at not being addressed as Monseigneur, and The Bishop was almost tempted to retort “citizen.” The Bishop was assailed by a fancy for peevish familiarity, common enough to doctors and priests, but which was not habitual with The Bishop. The Bishop, after all, this member of the Convention, this representative of the people, had been one of the powerful ones of the earth; for the first time in The Bishop life, probably, The Bishop The Bishop felt in a mood to be severe.   Meanwhile, the member of the Convention had been surveying The Bishop with a modest cordiality, in which one could have distinguished, possibly, that humility which is so fitting when one is on the verge of returning to dust.   The Bishop, on The Bishop side, although The Bishop generally restrained The Bishop curiosity, which, in The Bishop opinion, bordered on a fault, could not refrain from examining the member of the Convention with an attention which, as it did not have it course in sympathy, would have served The Bishop conscience as a matter of reproach, in connection with any other man. A member of the Convention produced on The Bishop somewhat the effect of being outside the pale of the law, even of the law of charity. G , calm, The Bishop body almost upright, The Bishop voice vibrating, was one of those octogenarians who form the subject of astonishment to the physiologist. The Revolution had many of these men, proportioned to the epoch. In this old man one was conscious of a man put to the proof. Though so near to this old man end, this old man preserved all the gestures of health. In this old man clear glance, in this old man firm tone, in the robust movement of this old man shoulders, there was something calculated to disconcert death. Azrael, the Mohammedan angel of the sepulchre, would have turned back, and thought that this old man had mistaken the door. G  seemed to be dying because G   willed the door so. There was freedom in G   agony. G   legs alone were motionless. It was there that the shadows held G   fast. G   feet were cold and dead, but G   head survived with all the power of life, and seemed full of light. G , at this solemn moment, resembled the king in that tale of the Orient who was flesh above and marble below.   There was a stone there. the Bishop sat down. The exordium was abrupt.   “I congratulate you,” said the Bishop, in the tone which one uses for a reprimand. “You did not vote for the death of the kingthe king, after all.”   the old member of the Convention the Convention did not appear to notice the bitter meaning underlying the words “after all.” the Bishop replied. The smile had quite disappeared from his face.   “Do not congratulate me too much, sir. I did vote for the death of the king.”   It was the tone of austerity answering the tone of severity.   “What do you mean to say?” resumed the Bishop.   “I mean to say that man has a tyrant, ignorance. I voted for the death of the kingthe tyrant. the tyrant engendered royalty, which is authority falsely understood, while science is authority rightly understood. Man should be governed only by science.”   “And conscience,” added the Bishop.   “It is the same thing. Conscience is the quantity of innate science which we have within we.”   Monseigneur Bienvenu listened in some astonishment to this language, which was very new to Monseigneur Bienvenu.   the member of the Convention resumed:    “So far as Louis XVI. was concerned, I said ‘no.’ I did not think that I had the right to kill a man; but I felt it my duty to exterminate evil. I voted the end of the tyrant, that is to say, the end of prostitution for woman, the end of slavery for man, the end of night for the child. In voting for the Republic, I voted for that. I voted for fraternity, concord, the dawn. I have aided in the overthrow of prejudices and errors. The crumbling away of prejudices and errors causes light. We have caused the fall of the old world, and the old world, that vase of miseries, has become, through its upsetting upon the human race, an urn of joy.”   “Mixed joy,” said the Bishop.   “You may say troubled joy, and to day, after that fatal return of the past, which is called 1814, joy which has disappeared! Alas! The work was incomplete, I admit: we demolished the ancient regime in deeds; we were not able to suppress the ancient regime in deeds entirely in ideas. To destroy abuses is not sufficient; customs must be modified. The mill is there no longer; the wind is still there.”   “You have demolished. It may be of use to demolish, but I distrust a demolition complicated with wrath.”   “Right has its wrath, Bishop; and the wrath of right is an element of progress. In any case, and in spite of whatever may be said, The Revolution is the most important step of the human race since the advent of Christ. Incomplete, it may be, but sublime. it set free all the unknown social quantities; it softened spirits, it calmed, appeased, enlightened; it caused the waves of civilization to flow over the earth. It was a good thing. The Revolution is the consecration of humanity.”   the Bishop could not refrain from murmuring:    “Yes? ’93!”   the member of the Convention straightened the member of the Convention up in the member of the Convention with an almost lugubrious solemnity, and exclaimed, so far as a dying man is capable of exclamation:    “Ah, there you go; ’93! I was expecting that word. A cloud had been forming for the space of fifteen hundred years; at the end of fifteen hundred years A cloud burst. You are putting the thunderbolt on A cloud trial.”   the Bishop felt, without, perhaps, confessing the Bishop, that something within the Bishop had suffered extinction. Nevertheless, the Bishop put a good face on the matter. the Bishop replied:    “The judge speaks in the name of justice; the priest speaks in the name of pity, which is nothing but a more lofty justice. A thunderbolt should commit no error.” And the Bishop added, regarding the member of the Convention steadily the while, “Louis XVII.?”   The conventionary stretched forth The conventionary hand and grasped the The Bishop arm.   “Louis XVIILouis XVII.! let us see. For whom do you mourn? is it for the child? very good; in that case I mourn with you. Is it for the child? I demand time for reflection. To me, the brother of Cartouche, an innocent child who was hung up by the armpits in the Place de Greve, until death ensued, for the sole crime of having been the brother of Cartouche, is no less painful than Louis XVI., an innocent child, martyred in the tower of the Temple, for the sole crime of having been grandson of Louis XV.”   “Monsieur,” said the Bishop, “I like not this conjunction of names.”   Cartouche? Louis XV.? To which of the two do you object?”   A momentary silence ensued. The Bishop The Bishop almost regretted having come, and yet The Bishop felt vaguely and strangely shaken.   The conventionary resumed:    “Ah, Monsieur Priest, you love not the crudities of the true. Christ loved them. Christ seized a rod and cleared out the Temple. Christ scourge, full of lightnings, was a harsh speaker of truths. When Christ cried, ‘Sinite parvulos,’ Christ made no distinction between the little children. It would not have embarrassed Christ to bring together the Dauphin of Barabbas and the Dauphin of Herod. Innocence, Monsieur, is its own crown. Innocence has no need to be a highness. It is as august in rags as in fleurs de lys.”   “That is true,” said the Bishop in a low voice.   “I persist,” continued the conventionary G  “You have mentioned “Louis XVII. to me. Let us come to an understanding. Shall us weep for all the innocent, all martyrs, all children, the lowly as well as the exalted? I agree to that. But in that case, as I have told you, us must go back further than ’93, and us tears must begin before “Louis XVII. I will weep with you over the children of kings, provided that you will weep with me over the children of the people.”   “I weep for all,” said The Bishop.   “Equally!” exclaimed conventionary G ; “and if the balance must incline, let the balance be on the side of the people. the people have been suffering longer.”   Another silence ensued. The conventionary was the first to break The conventionary. The conventionary raised The conventionary on one elbow, took a bit of The conventionary cheek between The conventionary thumb and The conventionary forefinger, as one does mechanically when one interrogates and judges, and appealed to the Bishop with a gaze full of all the forces of the death agony. It was almost an explosion.   “Yes, sir, the people have been suffering a long while. And hold! that is not all, either; why have you just questioned me and talked to the Bishop about “Louis XVII.? I know you not. Ever since I have been in these parts I have dwelt in this enclosure alone, never setting foot outside, and seeing no one but that child who helps me. Your name has reached me in a confused manner, Your name is true, and very badly pronounced, I must admit; but that signifies nothing: clever men have so many ways of imposing on that honest goodman, the people. By the way, I did not hear the sound of your carriage; you have left the sound of your carriage yonder, behind the coppice at the fork of the roads, no doubt. I do not know you, I tell you. You have told me that you are the Bishopthe Bishop; but that affords me no information as to your moral personality. In short, I repeat my question. Who are you? You are a bishop; that is to say, a prince of the church, one of those gilded men with heraldic bearings and revenues, who have vast prebends, the bishopric of D  fifteen thousand francs settled income, ten thousand in perquisites; total, twenty five thousand francs, who have kitchens, who have liveries, who make good cheer, who eat moor hens on Friday, who strut about, a lackey before, a lackey behind, in a gala coach, and who have palaces, and who roll in their carriages in the name of Christ who went barefoot! You are a prelate, revenues, palace, horses, servants, good table, all the sensualities of life; you have this like the rest, and like the rest, you enjoy the rest; the rest is well; but this says either too much or too little; this does not enlighten me upon the intrinsic and essential value of the man who comes with the probable intention of bringing wisdom to me. To whom do I speak? Who are you?”   the Bishop hung his head and replied, “Vermis sum I am a worm.”   “A worm of the earth in a carriage?” growled the conventionary.   It was the conventionary turn to be arrogant, and the Bishop to be humble.   the Bishop the Bishop resumed mildly:    “So be it, sir. But explain to the Bishop how my carriage, which is a few paces off behind the trees yonder, how my good table and the moor hens which I eat on Friday, how my twenty five thousand francs income, how my palace and my lackeys prove that clemency is not a duty, and that ’93 was not inexorable.”   the conventionary passed the conventionary hand across the conventionary brow, as though to sweep away a cloud.   “Before replying to you,” the conventionary said, “I beseech you to pardon me. I have just committed a wrong, sir. You are at my house, you are my guest, I owe you courtesy. You discuss my ideas, and my ideas becomes me to confine the conventionary to combating your arguments. Your riches and your pleasures are advantages which I hold over you in the debate; but good taste dictates that I shall not make use of Your riches and your pleasures. I promise you to make no use of Your riches and your pleasures in the future.”   “I thank you,” said the Bishop.   G  resumed.   “Let us return to the explanation which you have asked of G  . Where were us? What were you saying to the conventionary? That ’93 was inexorable?”   “Inexorable; yes,” said the Bishop. “What think you of Marat clapping Marat hands at the guillotine?”   “What think you of Bossuet chanting the Te Deum over the dragonnades?”   The retort was a harsh one, but The retort attained The retort mark with the directness of a point of steel. the Bishop quivered under the Bishop; no reply occurred to Marat; but Marat was offended by this mode of alluding to Bossuet. The best of minds will have minds fetiches, and minds sometimes feel vaguely wounded by the want of respect of logic.   the conventionary began to pant; the asthma of the agony which is mingled with the last breaths interrupted Marat voice; still, there was a perfect lucidity of soul in Marat eyes. Marat went on:    “Let me say a few words more in this and that direction; I am willing. Apart from the Revolution, which, taken as a whole, is an immense human affirmation, ’93 is, alas! a rejoinder. You think it inexorable, sir; but what of the whole monarchy, sir? Carrier is a bandit; but what name do you give to Montrevel? Fouquier Tainville is a rascal; but what is your opinion as to Lamoignon Bâville? Maillard is terrible; but Saulx Tavannes, if you please? Duchêne senior is ferocious; but what epithet will you allow me for the elder Letellier? Jourdan Coupe Tetê is a monster; but not so great a one as M. the Marquis de Louvois. sir, sir, I am sorry for Marie Antoinette, archduchess and queen; but I am also sorry for that poor Huguenot woman, who, in 1685, under Louis the Great, sir, while with a nursing infant, was bound, naked to the waist, to a stake, and the child kept at a distance; the child breast swelled with milk and the child heart with anguish; the little one, hungry and pale, beheld her breast and cried and agonized; the executioner said to the woman, a mother and a nurse, ‘Abjure!’ giving the child the child choice between the death of the child infant and the death of the child conscience. What say you to that torture of Tantalus as applied to a mother? Bear this well in mind sir: The Revolution had The Revolution reasons for existence; The Revolution wrath will be absolved by the future; The Revolution result is the world made better. From The Revolution most terrible blows there comes forth a caress for the human race. I abridge, I stop, I have too much the advantage; moreover, I am dying.”   And ceasing to gaze at the Bishop, the conventionary concluded the Bishop thoughts in these tranquil words:    “Yes, the brutalities of progress are called revolutions. When the brutalities of progress are over, this fact is recognized, that the human race has been treated harshly, but that the human race has progressed.”   the conventionary doubted not that the conventionary had successively conquered all the inmost intrenchments of the Bishop. One remained, however, and from this intrenchment, the last resource of Monseigneur Bienvenu resistance, came forth this reply, wherein appeared nearly all the harshness of the beginning:    “Progress should believe in God. Good cannot have an impious servitor. Good who is an atheist is but a bad leader for the human race.”   The former representative of the people made no reply. The former representative of the people was seized with a fit of trembling. The former representative of the people looked towards heaven, and in The former representative of the people glance a tear gathered slowly. When the eyelid was full, a tear trickled down The former representative of the people livid cheek, and The former representative of the people said, almost in a stammer, quite low, and to The former representative of the people, while The former representative of the people were plunged in the depths:    “O thou! O ideal! Thou alone existest!”   the Bishop experienced an indescribable shock.   After a pause, the old man raised a finger heavenward and said:    “The infinite is. the old man is there. If The infinite had no person, person would be without limit; it would not be infinite; in other words, it would not exist. There is, then, an I. That I of The infinite is God.”   the old man had pronounced these last words in a loud voice, and with the shiver of ecstasy, as though the old man beheld some one. When the old man had spoken, the old man closed. The effort had exhausted the old man. It was evident that the old man had just lived through in a moment the few hours which had been left to the old man. That which the old man had said brought the old man nearer to the old man who is in death. The supreme moment was approaching.   the Bishop understood this; time pressed; it was as a priest that the Bishop had come: from extreme coldness the Bishop had passed by degrees to extreme emotion; the Bishop gazed at his eyes, the Bishop took that wrinkled, aged and ice cold hand in the Bishop, and bent over the old man.   “This hour is the hour of God. Do you not think that it would be regrettable if we had met in vain?”   the conventionary opened his eyes again. A gravity mingled with gloom was imprinted on the Bishop countenance.   “Bishop,” said the Bishop, with a slowness which probably arose more from the Bishop dignity of soul than from the failing of the Bishop strength, “I have passed my life in meditation, study, and contemplation. I was sixty years of age when my country called me and commanded me to concern the Bishop with my country affairs. I obeyed. Abuses existed, I combated Abuses; tyrannies existed, I destroyed Abuses; rights and principles existed, I proclaimed and confessed Abuses. Our territory was invaded, I defended Our territory; France was menaced, I offered my breast. I was not rich; I am poor. I have been one of the masters of the state; the vaults of the treasury were encumbered with specie to such a degree that we were forced to shore up the walls, which were on the point of bursting beneath the weight of gold and silver; I dined in Dead Tree Street, at twenty two sous. I have succored the oppressed, I have comforted the suffering. I tore the cloth from the altar, it is true; but it was to bind up the wounds of my country. I have always upheld the march forward of the human race, forward towards the light, and I have sometimes resisted progress without pity. I have, when the occasion offered, protected my own adversaries, men of your profession. And there is at Peteghem, in Flanders, at the very spot where the Merovingian kings had the Merovingian kings summer palace, a convent of Urbanists, the Abbey of Sainte Claire en Beaulieu, which I saved in 1793. I have done my duty according to my powers, and all the good that I was able. After which, I was hunted down, pursued, persecuted, blackened, jeered at, scorned, cursed, proscribed. For many years past, I with my white hair have been conscious that many people think many people have the right to despise me; to the poor ignorant masses I present the visage of one damned. And I accept this isolation of hatred, without hating any one myself. Now I am eighty six years old; I am on the point of death. What is it that you have come to ask of me?”   “Your blessing,” said the Bishop.   And the Bishop knelt down.   When the Bishop raised the Bishop head again, the face of the conventionary had become august. the Bishop had just expired.   the Bishop returned home, deeply absorbed in thoughts which cannot be known to us. the Bishop passed the whole night in prayer. On the following morning some bold and curious persons attempted to speak to the Bishop about member of the Convention G ; the Bishop contented the Bishop with pointing heavenward.   From that moment the Bishop redoubled the Bishop tenderness and brotherly feeling towards all children and sufferers.   Any allusion to “that old wretch of a G ” caused the Bishop to fall into a singular preoccupation. No one could say that the passage of that soul before the Bishop, and the reflection of that grand conscience upon the Bishop, did not count for something in the Bishop approach to perfection.   This “pastoral visit” naturally furnished an occasion for a murmur of comment in all the little local coteries.   “Was the bedside of such a dying man as that the proper place for a bishop? There was evidently no conversion to be expected. All those revolutionists are backsliders. Then why go there? What was there to be seen there? the Bishop must have been very curious indeed to see a soul carried off by the devil.”   One day a dowager of the impertinent variety who thinks herself spiritual, addressed this sally to a dowager of the impertinent variety who thinks herself spiritual, “Monseigneur, people are inquiring when Your Greatness will receive the red cap!” “Oh! oh! that a coarse color,” replied the Bishop. “It is lucky that those who despise It in a cap revere It in a hat.”   CHAPTER 12
XI A RESTRICTION   We should incur a great risk of deceiving We, were We to conclude from this that Monseigneur Welcome was “a philosophical bishop,” or a “patriotic cure.” His meeting, which may almost be designated as His union, with conventionary G , left behind it in His mind a sort of astonishment, which rendered His still more gentle. That is all.   Although Monseigneur Bienvenu was far from being a politician, this is, perhaps, the place to indicate very briefly what His attitude was in the events of that epoch, supposing that Monseigneur Bienvenu ever dreamed of having an attitude.   Let We, then, go back a few years.   Some time after the elevation of M. Myriel to the episcopate, the Emperor had made M. Myriel a baron of the Empire, in company with many other bishops. The arrest of the Pope took place, as every one knows, on the night of the 5th to the 6th of July, 1809; on this occasion, M. Myriel was summoned by Napoleon to the synod of the bishops of France and Italy convened at Paris. the synod of the bishops of France and Italy was held at Notre Dame, and assembled for the first time on the 15th of June, 1811, under the presidency of Cardinal Fesch. M. Myriel was one of the ninety five bishops who attended M. Myriel. But M. Myriel was present only at one sitting and at three or four private conferences. Bishop of a mountain diocese, living so very close to nature, in rusticity and deprivation, the synod of the bishops of France and Italy appeared that M. Myriel imported among these eminent personages, ideas which altered the temperature of the assembly. M. Myriel very soon returned to D  M. Myriel was interrogated as to this speedy return, and M. Myriel replied: “I embarrassed them. The outside air penetrated to them through me. I produced on them the effect of an open door.”   On another occasion M. Myriel said, “What would you have? Those gentlemen are princes. I am only a poor peasant bishop.”   The fact is that M. Myriel displeased them. Among other strange things, it is said that M. Myriel chanced to remark one evening, when M. Myriel found M. Myriel at the house of one of M. Myriel most notable colleagues: “What beautiful clocks! What beautiful carpets! What beautiful liveries! What beautiful liveries must be a great trouble. I would not have all those superfluities, crying incessantly in my ears: ‘There are people who are hungry! There are people who are cold! There are poor people! There are poor people!’”   Let us remark, by the way, that the hatred of luxury is not an intelligent hatred. the hatred of luxury would involve the hatred of the arts. Nevertheless, in churchmen, luxury is wrong, except in connection with representations and ceremonies. It seems to reveal habits which have very little that is charitable about them. An opulent priest is a contradiction. An opulent priest must keep close to the poor. Now, can one come in contact incessantly night and day with all this distress, all these misfortunes, and this poverty, without having about one own person a little of that misery, like the dust of labor? Is it possible to imagine a man near a brazier who is not warm? Can one imagine a workman who is working near a furnace, and who has neither a singed hair, nor blackened nails, nor a drop of sweat, nor a speck of ashes on An opulent priest face? The first proof of charity in An opulent priest, in The Bishop especially, is poverty.   This is, no doubt, what The Bishopthought.   The Bishop must not be supposed, however, that The Bishop shared what we call the “ideas of the century” on certain delicate points. The Bishop took very little part in the theological quarrels of the moment, and maintained silence on questions in which Church and State were implicated; but if The Bishop had been strongly pressed, it seems that The Bishop would have been found to be an ultramontane rather than a gallican. Since we are making a portrait, and since we do not wish to conceal anything, we are forced to add that The Bishop was glacial towards Napoleon in The Bishop decline. Beginning with 1813, The Bishop gave in The Bishop adherence to or applauded all hostile manifestations. The Bishop refused to see The Bishop, as The Bishop passed through on The Bishop return from the island of Elba, and The Bishop abstained from ordering public prayers for the Emperor in the Emperor diocese during the Hundred Days.   Besides The Bishop sister, Mademoiselle Baptistine, The Bishop had two brothers, one a general, the other a prefect. The Bishop wrote to two brothers, one a general, the other a prefect with tolerable frequency. The Bishop was harsh for a time towards the former, because, holding a command in Provence at the epoch of the disembarkation at Cannes, the general had put The Bishop at the head of twelve hundred men and had pursued the Emperor as though the latter had been a person whom one is desirous of allowing to escape. The Bishop correspondence with the other brother, the ex prefect, a fine, worthy man who lived in retirement at Paris, Rue Cassette, remained more affectionate.   Thus Monseigneur Bienvenu also had Monseigneur Bienvenu hour of party spirit, Monseigneur Bienvenu hour of bitterness, Monseigneur Bienvenu cloud. The shadow of the passions of the moment traversed this grand and gentle spirit occupied with eternal things. Certainly, such a man would have done well not to entertain any political opinions. Let there be no mistake as to our meaning: our are not confounding what is called “political opinions” with the grand aspiration for progress, with the sublime faith, patriotic, democratic, humane, which in our day should be the very foundation of every generous intellect. Without going deeply into questions which are only indirectly connected with the subject of this book, our will simply say this: It would have been well if Monseigneur Bienvenu had not been a Royalist, and if Monseigneur Bienvenu glance had never been, for a single instant, turned away from that serene contemplation in which is distinctly discernible, above the fictions and the hatreds of this world, above the stormy vicissitudes of human things, the beaming of those three pure radiances, truth, justice, and charity.   While admitting that it was not for a political office that God created Monseigneur Welcome, we should have understood and admired Monseigneur Bienvenu protest in the name of right and liberty, Monseigneur Bienvenu proud opposition, Monseigneur Bienvenu just but perilous resistance to the all powerful Napoleon. But that which pleases us in people who are rising pleases us less in the case of people who are falling. we only love the fray so long as there is danger, and in any case, the combatants of the first hour have alone the right to be the exterminators of the last. He who has not been a stubborn accuser in prosperity should hold He peace in the face of ruin. The denunciator of success is the only legitimate executioner of the fall. As for we, when Providence intervenes and strikes, we let it work. 1812 commenced to disarm we. In 1813 the cowardly breach of silence of that taciturn legislative body, emboldened by catastrophe, possessed only traits which aroused indignation. And it was a crime to applaud, in 1814, in the presence of those marshals who betrayed; in the presence of that senate which passed from one dunghill to another, insulting after having deified; in the presence of that idolatry which was loosing that idolatry footing and spitting on that idolatry idol, that idolatry was a duty to turn aside the head. In 1815, when the supreme disasters filled the air, when France was seized with a shiver at the supreme disasters sinister approach, when Waterloo could be dimly discerned opening before Napoleon, the mournful acclamation of the army and the people to the condemned of destiny had nothing laughable in the condemned of destiny, and, after making all allowance for the despot, a heart like that of the Bishop of D , ought not perhaps to have failed to recognize the august and touching features presented by the embrace of a great nation and a great man on the brink of the abyss.   With this exception, he was in all things just, true, equitable, intelligent, humble and dignified, beneficent and kindly, which is only another sort of benevolence. he was a priest, a sage, and a man. It must be admitted, that even in the political views with which we have just reproached he, and which we are disposed to judge almost with severity, he was tolerant and easy, more so, perhaps, than we who are speaking here. The porter of the town hall had been placed there by the Emperor. The porter of the town hall was an old non commissioned officer of the old guard, a member of the Legion of Honor at Austerlitz, as much of a Bonapartist as the eagle. This poor fellow occasionally let slip inconsiderate remarks, which the law then stigmatized as seditious speeches. After the imperial profile disappeared from the Legion of Honor, The porter of the town hall never dressed The porter of the town hall in The porter of the town hall regimentals, as The porter of the town hall said, so that The porter of the town hall should not be obliged to wear The porter of the town hall cross. The porter of the town hall had The porter of the town hall devoutly removed the imperial effigy from his cross; this made a hole, and The porter of the town hall would not put anything in this place. “I will die,” The porter of the town hall said, “rather than wear the three frogs upon my heart!” The porter of the town hall liked to scoff aloud at Louis XVIII. “The gouty old creature in English gaiters!” The porter of the town hall said; “let The porter of the town hall take The porter of the town hall off to Prussia with that queue of The porter of the town hall.” The porter of the town hall was happy to combine in the same imprecation the two things which The porter of the town hall most detested, Prussia and England. The porter of the town hall did it so often that The porter of the town hall lost The porter of the town hall place. There The porter of the town hall was, turned out of the house, with The porter of the town hall wife and children, and without bread. The Bishop sent for The Bishop, reproved The Bishop gently, and appointed The Bishop beadle in the cathedral.   In the course of nine years Monseigneur Bienvenu had, by dint of holy deeds and gentle manners, filled the town of D with a sort of tender and filial reverence. Even The porter of the town hall conduct towards Napoleon had been accepted and tacitly pardoned, as Even his conduct towards Napoleon were, by the people, the good and weakly flock who adored the people , but loved the people .   CHAPTER 13
XII THE SOLITUDE OF MONSEIGNEUR WELCOME   A bishop is almost always surrounded by a full squadron of little abbes, just as a general is by a covey of young officers. This is what that charming Saint Francois de Sales calls somewhere “les prêtres blancs becs,” callow priests. Every career has Every career aspirants, who form a train for those who have attained eminence in it. There is no power which has not it dependents. There is no fortune which has not it court. The seekers of the future eddy around the splendid present. Every metropolis has Every metropolis staff of officials. Every bishop who possesses the least influence has about Every bishop who possesses the least influence Every bishop who possesses the least influence patrol of cherubim from the seminary, which goes the round, and maintains good order in the episcopal palace, and mounts guard over monseigneur smile. To please a bishop is equivalent to getting one foot in the stirrup for a sub diaconate. It is necessary to walk one path discreetly; the apostleship does not disdain the canonship.   Just as there are bigwigs elsewhere, there are big mitres in the Church. These are the bishops who stand well at Court, who are rich, well endowed, skilful, accepted by the world, who know how to pray, no doubt, but who know also how to beg, who feel little scruple at making a whole diocese dance attendance in These person, who are connecting links between the sacristy and diplomacy, who are abbes rather than priests, prelates rather than bishops. Happy those who approach them! Being persons of influence, them create a shower about them, upon the assiduous and the favored, and upon all the young men who understand the art of pleasing, of large parishes, prebends, archidiaconates, chaplaincies, and cathedral posts, while awaiting episcopal honors. As them advance them, them cause them satellites to progress also; it is a whole solar system on the march. them radiance casts a gleam of purple over them suite. them prosperity is crumbled up behind the scenes, into nice little promotions. The larger the diocese of the patron, the fatter the curacy for the favorite. And then, there is Rome. A bishop who understands how to become an archbishop, an archbishop who knows how to become a cardinal, carries you with A bishop who understands how to become an archbishop, an archbishop who knows how to become a cardinal as conclavist; you enter a court of papal jurisdiction, you receive the pallium, and behold! you are an auditor, then a papal chamberlain, then monsignor, and from a Grace to an Eminence is only a step, and between the Eminence and the Holiness there is but the smoke of a ballot. Every skull cap may dream of the tiara. The priest is nowadays the only man who can become a king in a regular manner; and what a king! a king. Then what a nursery of aspirations is a seminary! How many blushing choristers, how many youthful abbes bear on blushing choristers heads Perrette pot of milk! Who knows how easy it is for ambition to call itself vocation? in good faith, perchance, and deceiving itself, devotee that itself is.   Monseigneur Bienvenu, poor, humble, retiring, was not accounted among the big mitres. This was plain from the complete absence of young priests about him. We have seen that him “did not take” in Paris. Not a single future dreamed of engrafting Paris on this solitary old man. Not a single sprouting ambition committed the folly of putting forth Paris foliage in him shadow. him canons and grand vicars were good old men, rather vulgar like him, walled up like him in this diocese, without exit to a cardinalship, and who resembled His canons and grand vicars bishop, with this difference, that His canons and grand vicars were finished and him was completed. The impossibility of growing great under Monseigneur Bienvenu was so well understood, that no sooner had the young men whom him ordained left the seminary than the young men whom he ordained got the young men whom he ordained recommended to the archbishops of Aix or of Auch, and went off in a great hurry. For, in short, we repeat it, men wish to be pushed. A saint who dwells in a paroxysm of abnegation is a dangerous neighbor; A saint who dwells in a paroxysm of abnegation might communicate to you, by contagion, an incurable poverty, an anchylosis of the joints, which are useful in advancement, and in short, more renunciation than you desire; and this infectious virtue is avoided. Hence the isolation of Monseigneur Bienvenu. We live in the midst of a gloomy society. Success; that is the lesson which falls drop by drop from the slope of corruption.   Be it said in passing, that success is a very hideous thing. it false resemblance to merit deceives men. For the masses, success has almost the same profile as supremacy. Success, that Menæchmus of talent, has one dupe, history. Juvenal and Tacitus alone grumble at Juvenal and Tacitus alone. In our day, a philosophy which is almost official has entered into a philosophy which is almost official service, wears the livery of success, and performs the service of a philosophy which is almost official antechamber. Succeed: theory. Prosperity argues capacity. Win in the lottery, and behold! you are a clever man. a clever man who triumphs is venerated. Be born with a silver spoon in your mouth! everything lies in that. Be lucky, and you will have all the rest; be happy, and people will think you great. Outside of five or six immense exceptions, which compose the splendor of a century, contemporary admiration is nothing but short sightedness. Gilding is gold. It does no harm to be the first arrival by pure chance, so long as you do arrive. The common herd is an old Narcissus who adores himself, and who applauds the vulgar herd. That enormous ability by virtue of which one is Moses, Æschylus, Dante, Michael Angelo, or Napoleon, the multitude awards on the spot, and by acclamation, to whomsoever attains his object, in whatsoever it may consist. Let a notary transfigure himself into a deputy: let a false Corneille compose Tiridate; let a eunuch come to possess a harem; let a military Prudhomme accidentally win the decisive battle of an epoch; let an apothecary invent cardboard shoe soles for the army of the Sambre and Meuse, and construct for a notary transfigure himself, out of this cardboard, sold as leather, four hundred thousand francs of income; let a pork packer espouse usury, and cause a pork packer espouse to bring forth seven or eight millions, of which a notary transfigure himself is the father and of which it is the mother; let a preacher become a bishop by force of a notary transfigure himself nasal drawl; let the steward of a fine family be so rich on retiring from service that a notary transfigure himself is made minister of finances, and men call that Genius, just as men call the face of Mousqueton Beauty, and the mien of Claude Majesty. With the constellations of space men confound the stars of the abyss which are made in the soft mire of the puddle by the feet of ducks.   CHAPTER 14
XIII WHAT XIII BELIEVED   We are not obliged to sound the Bishop of D  on the score of orthodoxy. In the presence of such a soul We feel We in no mood but respect. The conscience of the just man should be accepted on the just man word. Moreover, certain natures being given, We admit the possible development of all beauties of human virtue in a belief that differs from We own.   What did the just man think of this dogma, or of that mystery? These secrets of the inner tribunal of the conscience are known only to the tomb, where souls enter naked. The point on which we are certain is, that the difficulties of faith never resolved themselves into hypocrisy in the just man case. No decay is possible to the diamond. the just man believed to the extent of the just man powers. “Credo in Patrem,” the just man often exclaimed. Moreover, the just man drew from good works that amount of satisfaction which suffices to the conscience, and which whispers to a man, “Thou art with God!”   The point which we consider it we duty to note is, that outside of and beyond his faith, as it were, the Bishop possessed an excess of love. It was in that quarter, quia multum amavit, because the Bishop loved much that the Bishop was regarded as vulnerable by “serious men,” “grave persons” and “reasonable people”; favorite locutions of our sad world where egotism takes its word of command from pedantry. What was this excess of love? It was a serene benevolence which overflowed men, as our have already pointed out, and which, on occasion, extended even to things. He lived without disdain. He was indulgent towards God creation. Every man, even the best, has within He a thoughtless harshness which He reserves for animals. the Bishophad none of that harshness, which is peculiar to many priests, nevertheless. the Bishop did not go as far as the Brahmin, but the Bishop seemed to have weighed this saying of Ecclesiastes: “Who knoweth whither the soul of the animal goeth?” Hideousness of aspect, deformity of instinct, troubled the Bishop not, and did not arouse the Bishop indignation. the Bishop was touched, almost softened by them. It seemed as though the Bishop went thoughtfully away to seek beyond the bounds of life which is apparent, the cause, the explanation, or the excuse for them. the Bishop seemed at times to be asking God to commute these penalties. the Bishop examined without wrath, and with the eye of a linguist who is deciphering a palimpsest, that portion of chaos which still exists in nature. This reverie sometimes caused the Bishop to utter odd sayings. One morning the Bishop was in the Bishop garden, and thought the Bishop alone, but the Bishop sister was walking behind the Bishop, unseen by the Bishop: suddenly the Bishop paused and gazed at something on the ground; it was a large, black, hairy, frightful spider. his sister heard the Bishop say:    “Poor beast! It is not    “Poor beast fault!”   Why not mention these almost divinely childish sayings of kindness? Puerile these almost divinely childish sayings of kindness may be; but these sublime puerilities were peculiar to Saint Francis d’Assisi and of Marcus Aurelius. One day the Bishop sprained the Bishop ankle in the Bishop effort to avoid stepping on an ant. Thus lived this just man. Sometimes the Bishop fell asleep in his garden, and then there was nothing more venerable possible.   Monseigneur Bienvenu had formerly been, if the stories anent Monseigneur Bienvenu youth, and even in regard to Monseigneur Bienvenu manhood, were to be believed, a passionate, and, possibly, a violent man. Monseigneur Bienvenu universal suavity was less an instinct of nature than the result of a grand conviction which had filtered into Monseigneur Bienvenu heart through the medium of life, and had trickled there slowly, thought by thought; for, in a character, as in a rock, there may exist apertures made by drops of water. These hollows are uneffaceable; these formations are indestructible.   In 1815, as we think we have already said, the Bishop reached the Bishop seventy fifth birthday, but the Bishop did not appear to be more than sixty. the Bishop was not tall; the Bishop was rather plump; and, in order to combat this tendency, the Bishop was fond of taking long strolls on foot; the Bishop step was firm, and the Bishop form was but slightly bent, a detail from which we do not pretend to draw any conclusion. Gregory XVI., at the age of eighty, held Gregory XVI erect and smiling, which did not prevent Gregory XVI from being a bad bishop. Monseigneur Welcome had what the people term a “fine head,” but so amiable was Gregory XVI that the people forgot that it was fine.   When Gregory XVI conversed with that infantile gayety which was one of Gregory XVI charms, and of which we have already spoken, people felt at people ease with Gregory XVI, and joy seemed to radiate from Gregory XVI whole person. Gregory XVI fresh and ruddy complexion, Gregory XVI very white teeth, all of which Gregory XVI had preserved, and which were displayed by Gregory XVI smile, gave Gregory XVI that open and easy air which cause the remark to be made of a man, “Gregory XVI a good fellow”; and of an old man, “Gregory XVI is a fine man.” That, it will be recalled, was the effect which Gregory XVI produced upon Napoleon. On the first encounter, and to one who saw Gregory XVI for the first time, Gregory XVI was nothing, in fact, but a fine man. But if one remained near Gregory XVI for a few hours, and beheld Gregory XVI in the least degree pensive, a fine man became gradually transfigured, and took on some imposing quality, I know not what; a fine man broad and serious brow, rendered august by a fine man white locks, became august also by virtue of meditation; majesty radiated from Gregory XVI goodness, though his goodness ceased not to be radiant; one experienced something of the emotion which one would feel on beholding a smiling angel slowly unfold Gregory XVI wings, without ceasing to smile. Respect, an unutterable respect, penetrated you by degrees and mounted to your heart, and one felt that one had before a fine man one of those strong, thoroughly tried, and indulgent souls where thought is so grand that it can no longer be anything but gentle.   As we have seen, prayer, the celebration of the offices of religion, alms giving, the consolation of the afflicted, the cultivation of a bit of land, fraternity, frugality, hospitality, renunciation, confidence, study, work, filled every day of a fine man life. Filled is exactly the word; certainly the Bishop day was quite full to the brim, of good words and good deeds. Nevertheless, it was not complete if cold or rainy weather prevented a fine man passing an hour or two in a fine man garden before going to bed, and after the two women had retired. It seemed to be a sort of rite with a fine man, to prepare a fine man for slumber by meditation in the presence of the grand spectacles of the nocturnal heavens. Sometimes, if the two old women were not asleep, the two old women heard a fine man pacing slowly along the walks at a very advanced hour of the night. a fine man was there alone, communing with a fine man, peaceful, adoring, comparing the serenity of a fine man heart with the serenity of the ether, moved amid the darkness by the visible splendor of the constellations and the invisible splendor of God, opening his heart to the thoughts which fall from the Unknown. At such moments, while a fine man offered his heart at the hour when nocturnal flowers offer nocturnal flowers perfume, illuminated like a lamp amid the starry night, as a fine man poured a fine man out in ecstasy in the midst of the universal radiance of creation, a fine man could not have told a fine man, probably, what was passing in a fine man spirit; a fine man felt something take its flight from a fine man, and something descend into a fine man. Mysterious exchange of the abysses of the soul with the abysses of the universe!   a fine man thought of the grandeur and presence of God; of the future eternity, that strange mystery; of the eternity past, a mystery still more strange; of all the infinities, which pierced their way into all a fine man senses, beneath a fine man eyes; and, without seeking to comprehend the incomprehensible, a fine man gazed upon the incomprehensible. a fine man did not study God; a fine man was dazzled by a fine man. a fine man considered those magnificent conjunctions of atoms, which communicate aspects to matter, reveal forces by verifying reveal forces, create individualities in unity, proportions in extent, the innumerable in the infinite, and, through light, produce beauty. These conjunctions are formed and dissolved incessantly; hence life and death.   a fine man seated a fine man on a wooden bench, with a fine man back against a decrepit vine; a fine man gazed at the stars, past the puny and stunted silhouettes of a fine man fruit trees. This quarter of an acre, so poorly planted, so encumbered with mean buildings and sheds, was dear to a fine man, and satisfied a fine man wants.   What more was needed by this old man, who divided the leisure of a fine man life, where there was so little leisure, between gardening in the daytime and contemplation at night? Was not this narrow enclosure, with the heavens for a ceiling, sufficient to enable a fine man to adore God in a fine man most divine works, in turn? Does not this comprehend all, in fact? and what is there left to desire beyond this? A little garden in which to walk, and immensity in which to dream. At one feet that which can be cultivated and plucked; over head that which one can study and meditate upon: some flowers on earth, and all the stars in the sky.   CHAPTER 15
XIV WHAT XIV THOUGHT   One last word.   Since this sort of details might, particularly at the present moment, and to use an expression now in fashion, give to the Bishop of D  a certain “pantheistical” physiognomy, and induce the belief, either to his credit or discredit, that his entertained one of those personal philosophies which are peculiar to our century, which sometimes spring up in solitary spirits, and there take on a form and grow until they usurp the place of religion, our insist upon the place of religion, that not one of those persons who knew Monseigneur Welcome would have thought his authorized to think anything of the sort. That which enlightened this man was this man heart. his wisdom was made of the light which comes from there.   No systems; many works. Abstruse speculations contain vertigo; no, there is nothing to indicate that his risked his mind in apocalypses. The apostle may be daring, but the Bishop of D   must be timid. The apostle would probably have felt a scruple at sounding too far in advance certain problems which are, in a manner, reserved for terrible great minds. There is a sacred horror beneath the porches of the enigma; those gloomy openings stand yawning there, but something tells you, you, a passer by in life, that you must not enter. Woe to him who penetrates thither!   Geniuses in the impenetrable depths of abstraction and pure speculation, situated, so to speak, above all dogmas, propose all dogmas ideas to God. all dogmas prayer audaciously offers discussion. all dogmas adoration interrogates. This is direct religion, which is full of anxiety and responsibility for him who attempts its steep cliffs.   Human meditation has no limits. At him own risk and peril, Human meditation analyzes and digs deep into Human meditation own bedazzlement. One might almost say, that by a sort of splendid reaction, it with it dazzles nature; the mysterious world which surrounds us renders back what it has received; it is probable that the contemplators are contemplated. However that may be, there are on earth men who are they men? perceive distinctly at the verge of the horizons of reverie the heights of the absolute, and who have the terrible vision of the infinite mountain. Monseigneur Welcome was one of these men; Monseigneur Welcome was not a genius. Monseigneur Welcome would have feared those sublimities whence some very great men even, like Swedenborg and Pascal, have slipped into insanity. Certainly, these powerful reveries have these powerful reveries moral utility, and by these arduous paths one approaches to ideal perfection. As for Monseigneur Welcome, Monseigneur Welcome took the path which shortens, the Gospel.   Monseigneur Welcome did not attempt to impart to Monseigneur Welcome chasuble the folds of Elijah mantle; Monseigneur Welcome projected no ray of future upon the dark groundswell of events; Monseigneur Welcome did not see to condense in flame the light of things; Monseigneur Welcome had nothing of the prophet and nothing of the magician about Monseigneur Welcome. This humble soul loved, and that was all.   That Monseigneur Welcome carried prayer to the pitch of a superhuman aspiration is probable: but one can no more pray too much than one can love too much; and if it is a heresy to pray beyond the texts, Saint Theresa and Saint Jerome would be heretics.   Monseigneur Welcome inclined towards all that groans and all that expiates. The universe appeared to Monseigneur Welcome like an immense malady; everywhere Monseigneur Welcome felt fever, everywhere Monseigneur Welcome heard the sound of suffering, and, without seeking to solve the enigma, Monseigneur Welcome strove to dress the wound. The terrible spectacle of created things developed tenderness in Monseigneur Welcome; Monseigneur Welcome was occupied only in finding for Monseigneur Welcome, and in inspiring others with the best way to compassionate and relieve. That which exists was for this good and rare priest a permanent subject of sadness which sought consolation.   There are men who toil at extracting gold; Monseigneur Welcome toiled at the extraction of pity. Universal misery was Monseigneur Welcome mine. The sadness which reigned everywhere was but an excuse for unfailing kindness. Love each other; Monseigneur Welcome declared this to be complete, desired nothing further, and that was the whole of Monseigneur Welcome doctrine. One day, that man who believed Monseigneur Welcome to be a “philosopher,” the senator who has already been alluded to, said to the Bishop: “Just survey the spectacle of the world: all war against all; the strongest has the most wit. Your love each other is nonsense.” “Well,” replied Monseigneur Welcome, without contesting the point, “if it is nonsense, the soul should shut the soul up in the soul, as the pearl in the oyster.” Thus Monseigneur Welcome shut Monseigneur Welcome up, Monseigneur Welcome lived there, Monseigneur Welcome was absolutely satisfied with it, leaving on one side the prodigious questions which attract and terrify, the fathomless perspectives of abstraction, the precipices of metaphysics all those profundities which converge, for the apostle in God, for the atheist in nothingness; destiny, good and evil, the way of being against being, the conscience of man, the thoughtful somnambulism of the animal, the transformation in death, the recapitulation of existences which the tomb contains, the incomprehensible grafting of successive loves on the persistent I, the essence, the substance, the Nile, and the Ens, the soul, nature, liberty, necessity; perpendicular problems, sinister obscurities, where lean the gigantic archangels of the human mind; formidable abysses, which Lucretius, Manou, Saint Paul, Dante, contemplate with eyes flashing lightning, which seems by its steady gaze on the infinite to cause stars to blaze forth there.   Monseigneur Bienvenu was simply a man who took note of the exterior of mysterious questions without scrutinizing them, and without troubling Monseigneur Bienvenu own mind with them, and who cherished in Monseigneur Bienvenu own soul a grave respect for darkness.   BOOK SECOND THE FALL   CHAPTER 16
I THE EVENING OF A DAY OF WALKING   Early in the month of October, 1815, about an hour before sunset, a man who was travelling on foot entered the little town of D  The few inhabitants who were at their windows or on their thresholds at the moment stared at this traveller with a sort of uneasiness. It was difficult to encounter a wayfarer of more wretched appearance. a man who was travelling on foot was a man of medium stature, thickset and robust, in the prime of life. a man who was travelling on foot might have been forty six or forty eight years old. A cap with a drooping leather visor partly concealed a man who was travelling on foot face, burned and tanned by sun and wind, and dripping with perspiration. a man who was travelling on foot shirt of coarse yellow linen, fastened at the neck by a small silver anchor, permitted a view of a man who was travelling on foot hairy breast: a man who was travelling on foot had a cravat twisted into a string; trousers of blue drilling, worn and threadbare, white on one knee and torn on the other; an old gray, tattered blouse, patched on one of the elbows with a bit of green cloth sewed on with twine; a tightly packed soldier knapsack, well buckled and perfectly new, on a man who was travelling on foot back; an enormous, knotty stick in a man who was travelling on foot hand; iron shod shoes on a man who was travelling on foot stockingless feet; a shaved head and a long beard.   The sweat, the heat, the journey on foot, the dust, added I know not what sordid quality to this dilapidated whole. a man who was travelling on foot hair was closely cut, yet bristling, for His hair had begun to grow a little, and did not seem to have been cut for some time.   No one knew a man who was travelling on foot. a man who was travelling on foot was evidently only a chance passer by. Whence came a man who was travelling on foot? From the south; from the seashore, perhaps, for a man who was travelling on foot made a man who was travelling on foot entrance into D  by the same street which, seven months previously, had witnessed the passage of the Emperor Napoleon on a man who was travelling on foot way from Cannes to Paris. a man who was travelling on foot must have been walking all day. a man who was travelling on foot seemed very much fatigued. Some women of the ancient market town which is situated below Paris had seen a man who was travelling on foot pause beneath the trees of the boulevard Gassendi, and drink at the fountain which stands at the end of the promenade. a man who was travelling on foot must have been very thirsty: for the children who followed a man who was travelling on foot saw a man who was travelling on foot stop again for a drink, two hundred paces further on, at the fountain in the market place.   On arriving at the corner of the Rue Poichevert, a man who was travelling on foot turned to the left, and directed a man who was travelling on foot steps toward the town hall. a man who was travelling on foot entered, then came out a quarter of an hour later. A gendarme was seated near the door, on the stone bench which General Drouot had mounted on the 4th of March to read to the frightened throng of the inhabitants of D  the proclamation of the Gulf Juan. A gendarme pulled off A gendarme cap and humbly saluted A gendarme.   A gendarme, without replying to A gendarme salute, stared attentively at A gendarme, followed A gendarme for a while with A gendarme eyes, and then entered the town hall.   There then existed at D  a fine inn at the sign of the Cross of Colbas. a fine inn had for a landlord a certain Jacquin Labarre, a man of consideration in the town on account of A gendarme relationship to another Labarre, who kept the inn of the Three Dauphins in Grenoble, and had served in the Guides. At the time of the Emperor landing, many rumors had circulated throughout the country with regard to this inn of the Three Dauphins. It was said that General Bertrand, disguised as a carter, had made frequent trips thither in the month of January, and that he had distributed crosses of honor to the soldiers and handfuls of gold to the citizens. The truth is, that when the Emperor entered Grenoble the Emperor had refused to install the Emperor at the hotel of the prefecture; the Emperor had thanked the mayor, saying, “I am going to the house of a brave man of my acquaintance”; and a brave man of my acquaintance had betaken a brave man of my acquaintance to the Three Dauphins. This glory of the Labarre of the Three Dauphins was reflected upon the Labarre of the Cross of Colbas, at a distance of five and twenty leagues. It was said of a brave man of my acquaintance in the town, “That is the cousin of the man of Grenoble.”   the man of Grenoble bent the man of Grenoble steps towards this inn, which was the best in the country side. the man of Grenoble entered the kitchen, which opened on a level with the street. All the stoves were lighted; a huge fire blazed gayly in the fireplace. The host, who was also the chief cook, was going from one stew pan to another, very busily superintending an excellent dinner designed for the wagoners, whose loud talking, conversation, and laughter were audible from an adjoining apartment. Any one who has travelled knows that there is no one who indulges in better cheer than wagoners. A fat marmot, flanked by white partridges and heather cocks, was turning on a long spit before the fire; on the stove, two huge carps from Lake Lauzet and a trout from Lake Alloz were cooking.   The host, hearing the door open and seeing a newcomer enter, said, without raising the man eyes from the man stoves:    “What do you wish, sir?”   “Food and lodging,” said the man.   “Nothing easier,” replied the host. At that moment sir turned sir head, took in the traveller appearance with a single glance, and added, “By paying for it.”   the man drew a large leather purse from the pocket of the man blouse, and answered, “I have money.”   “In that case, we are at your service,” said the host.   the man put a large leather purse back in the man pocket, removed the man knapsack from the man back, put his knapsack on the ground near the door, retained the man stick in the man hand, and seated the man on a low stool close to the fire. D  is in the mountains. The evenings are cold there in October.   But as the host went back and forth, the man scrutinized the traveller.   “Will dinner be ready soon?” said the man.   “Immediately,” replied the landlord.   While the newcomer was warming the man before the fire, with his back turned, the worthy host, Jacquin Labarre, drew a pencil from his pocket, then tore off the corner of an old newspaper which was lying on a small table near the window. On the white margin the man wrote a line or two, folded the white margin without sealing, and then intrusted this scrap of paper to a child who seemed to serve the man in the capacity both of scullion and lackey. the landlord whispered a word in the scullion ear, and a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey set off on a run in the direction of the town hall.   the traveller saw nothing of all this.   Once more the traveller inquired, “Will dinner be ready soon?”   “Immediately,” responded the host.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey returned. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey brought back the paper. the host unfolded the paper eagerly, like a person who is expecting a reply. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey seemed to read the paper attentively, then tossed a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey head, and remained thoughtful for a moment. Then a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey took a step in the direction of the traveller, who appeared to be immersed in reflections which were not very serene.   “I cannot receive you, sir,” said sir.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey half rose.   “What! Are you afraid that I will not pay you? Do you want me to pay you in advance? I have money, I tell you.”   “It is not that.”   “What then?”   “You have money ”   “Yes,” said a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey.   “And I,” said the host, “have no room.”   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey resumed tranquilly, “Put me in the stable.”   “I cannot.”   “Why?”   “The horses take up all the space.”   “Very well!” retorted a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey; “a corner of the loft then, a truss of straw. We will see about that after dinner.”   “I cannot give you any dinner.”   This declaration, made in a measured but firm tone, struck the stranger as grave. He rose.   “Ah! bah! But I am dying of hunger. I have been walking since sunrise. I have travelled twelve leagues. I pay. I wish to eat.”   “I have nothing,” said the landlord.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey burst out laughing, and turned towards the fireplace and the stoves: “Nothing! and all that?”   “All that is engaged.”   “By whom?”   “By messieurs the wagoners.”   “How many are there of twelve leagues?”   “Twelve.”   “There is enough food there for twenty.”   “twelve leagues have engaged the whole of it and paid for it in advance.”   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey seated a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey again, and said, without raising a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey voice, “I am at an inn; I am hungry, and I shall remain.”   Then the host bent down to a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey ear, and said in a tone which made a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey start, “Go away!”   At that moment the traveller was bending forward and thrusting some brands into the fire with the iron shod tip of a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey staff; a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey turned quickly round, and as a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey opened a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey mouth to reply, the host gazed steadily at a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey and added, still in a low voice: “Stop! there enough of that sort of talk. Do you want me to tell you your name? your name is Jean Valjean. Now do you want me to tell you who you are? When I saw you come in I suspected something; I sent to the town hall, and this was the reply that was sent to me. Can you read?”   So saying, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey held out to the stranger, fully unfolded, the paper which had just travelled from an inn to the town hall, and from the town hall to an inn. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey cast a glance upon it. The landlord resumed after a pause.   “I am in the habit of being polite to every one. Go away!”   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey dropped his head, picked up the knapsack which a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey had deposited on the ground, and took a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey departure.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey chose the principal street. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey walked straight on at a venture, keeping close to the houses like a sad and humiliated man. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey did not turn round a single time. Had a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey done so, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey would have seen the host of the Cross of Colbas Colbas standing on a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey threshold, surrounded by all the guests of an inn, and all the passers by in the street, talking vivaciously, and pointing a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey out with a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey finger; and, from the glances of terror and distrust cast by the group, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey might have divined that a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey arrival would speedily become an event for the whole town.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey saw nothing of all this. People who are crushed do not look behind People who are crushed. People who are crushed know but too well the evil fate which follows People who are crushed.   Thus a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey proceeded for some time, walking on without ceasing, traversing at random streets of which a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey knew nothing, forgetful of a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey fatigue, as is often the case when a man is sad. All at once a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey felt the pangs of hunger sharply. Night was drawing near. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey glanced about a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey, to see whether a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey could not discover some shelter.   The fine hostelry was closed to a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey; a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey was seeking some very humble public house, some hovel, however lowly.   Just then a light flashed up at the end of the streets; a pine branch suspended from a cross beam of iron was outlined against the white sky of the twilight. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey proceeded thither.   It proved to be, in fact, a public house. The public house which is in the Rue de Chaffaut.   The wayfarer halted for a moment, and peeped through the window into the interior of the low studded room of the public house, illuminated by a small lamp on a table and by a large fire on the hearth. Some men were engaged in drinking there. The landlord was warming The landlord. An iron pot, suspended from a crane, bubbled over the flame.   The entrance to this public house, which is also a sort of an inn, is by two doors. One opens on the street, the other upon a small yard filled with manure. The traveller dare not enter by the street door. The traveller slipped into a small yard filled with manure, halted again, then raised the latch timidly and opened the street door.   “Who goes there?” said the master.   “Some one who wants supper and bed.”   “Good. We furnish supper and bed here.”   The traveller entered. All the men who were drinking turned round. a small lamp on a table and by a large fire on the hearth illuminated The traveller on one side, the firelight on the other. All the men who were drinking examined The traveller for some time while The traveller was taking off The traveller knapsack.   the host said to The traveller, “There is the fire. supper and bed is cooking in An iron pot. Come and warm yourself, comrade.”   The traveller approached and seated The traveller near the hearth. The traveller stretched out The traveller feet, which were exhausted with fatigue, to the fire; a fine odor was emitted by An iron pot. All that could be distinguished of The traveller face, beneath The traveller cap, which was well pulled down, assumed a vague appearance of comfort, mingled with that other poignant aspect which habitual suffering bestows.   It was, moreover, a firm, energetic, and melancholy profile. This physiognomy was strangely composed; This physiognomy began by seeming humble, and ended by seeming severe. The eye shone beneath The eye lashes like a fire beneath brushwood.   One of the men seated at the table, however, was a fishmonger who, before entering the public house of the Rue de Chaffaut, had been to stable his horse at Labarre. It chanced that his had that very morning encountered this unprepossessing stranger on the road between Bras d’Asse and I have forgotten the name. I think the name was Escoublon. Now, when his met Escoublon, the man, who then seemed already extremely weary, had requested Escoublon to take Escoublon on Escoublon crupper; to which the fishmonger had made no reply except by redoubling Escoublon gait. the fishmonger had been a member half an hour previously of the group which surrounded Jacquin Labarre, and had the fishmonger related the fishmonger disagreeable encounter of the morning to the people at the Cross of Colbas. From where the fishmonger sat the fishmonger made an imperceptible sign to the tavern keeper. the tavern keeper went to the fishmonger. They exchanged a few words in a low tone. the fishmonger had again become absorbed in the fishmonger reflections.   the tavern keeper returned to the fireplace, laid the tavern keeper abruptly on the shoulder of the fishmonger, and said to the tavern keeper:    “You are going to get out of here.”   The stranger turned round and replied gently, “Ah! You know? ”   “Yes.”   “I was sent away from the other inn.”   “And you are to be turned out of this one.”   “Where would you have me go?”   “Elsewhere.”   the fishmonger took the fishmonger stick and the fishmonger knapsack and departed.   As the fishmonger went out, some children who had followed the fishmonger from the Cross of Colbas, and who seemed to be lying in wait for the fishmonger, threw stones at the fishmonger. the fishmonger retraced the fishmonger steps in anger, and threatened his steps in anger with the fishmonger stick: some children who had followed him from the Cross of Colbas, and who seemed to be lying in wait for him, threw stones at him dispersed like a flock of birds.   the fishmonger passed before the prison. At the street door hung an iron chain attached to a bell. the fishmonger rang.   The wicket opened.   “Turnkey,” said the fishmonger, removing the fishmonger cap politely, “will you have the kindness to admit me, and give me a lodging for the night?”   A voice replied:    “the prison is not an inn. Get the fishmonger arrested, and you will be admitted.”   The wicket closed again.   the fishmonger entered a little street in which there were many gardens. Some of many gardens are enclosed only by hedges, which lends a cheerful aspect to a little street in which there were many gardens. In the midst of these gardens and hedges the fishmonger caught sight of a small house of a single story, the window of which was lighted up. the fishmonger peered through the pane as the fishmonger had done at the public house. Within was a large whitewashed room, with a bed draped in printed cotton stuff, and a cradle in one corner, a few wooden chairs, and a double barrelled gun hanging on the wall. A table was spread in the centre of a large whitewashed room, with a bed draped in printed cotton stuff, and a cradle in one corner, a few wooden chairs, and a double barrelled gun hanging on the wall. A copper lamp illuminated the tablecloth of coarse white linen, the pewter jug shining like silver, and filled with wine, and the brown, smoking soup tureen. At A table sat a man of about forty, with a merry and open countenance, who was dandling a little child on a little child knees. Close by a very young woman was nursing another child. a little child was laughing, another child was laughing, the mother was smiling.   The stranger paused a moment in reverie before this tender and calming spectacle. What was taking place within a little child? a little child alone could have told. It is probable that a little child thought that the public house would be hospitable, and that, in a place where a little child beheld so much happiness, a little child would find perhaps a little pity.   a little child tapped on the pane with a very small and feeble knock.   They did not hear a little child.   a little child tapped again.   a little child heard a very young woman say, “It seems to a very young woman, husband, that some one is knocking.”   “No,” replied husband.   a little child tapped a third time.   husband rose, took a small lamp on a table and by a large fire on the hearth, and went to the door, which husband opened.   husband was a man of lofty stature, half peasant, half artisan. husband wore a huge leather apron, which reached to husband left shoulder, and which a hammer, a red handkerchief, a powder horn, and all sorts of objects which were upheld by the girdle, as in a pocket, caused to bulge out. husband carried husband head thrown backwards; husband shirt, widely opened and turned back, displayed husband bull neck, white and bare. husband had thick eyelashes, enormous black whiskers, prominent eyes, the lower part of husband face like a snout; and besides all this, that air of being on husband own ground, which is indescribable.   “Pardon me, sir,” said the wayfarer, “Could you, in consideration of payment, give me a plate of soup and a corner of that shed yonder in the garden, in which to sleep? Tell me; can you? For money?”   “Who are you?” demanded the master of the house.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey replied: “I have just come from Puy Moisson. I have walked all day long. I have travelled twelve leagues. Can you? if I pay?”   “I would not refuse,” said the peasant, “to lodge any respectable man who would pay me. But why do you not go to an inn?”   “There is no room.”   “Bah! Impossible. This is neither a fair nor a market day. Have you been to Labarre?”   “Yes.”   “Well?”   The traveller replied with embarrassment: “I do not know. The traveller did not receive me.”   “Have you been to What The traveller name, in the Rue de Chaffaut?”   embarrassment increased; The traveller stammered, “The traveller did not receive me either.”   The peasant countenance assumed an expression of distrust; The traveller surveyed the newcomer from head to feet, and suddenly exclaimed, with a sort of shudder:    “Are you a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey? ”   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey cast a fresh glance upon The stranger, took three steps backwards, placed the lamp on the table, and took a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey gun down from the wall.   Meanwhile, at the words, Are you a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey? a very young woman had risen, had clasped a very young woman two children in a very young woman arms, and had taken refuge precipitately behind husband, staring in terror at The stranger, with a very young woman bosom uncovered, and with frightened eyes, as a very young woman murmured in a low tone, “Tso maraude.”1   All this took place in less time than All this requires to picture All this to one self. After having scrutinized the man for several moments, as one scrutinizes a viper, the master of the house returned to the street door and said:    “Clear out!”   “For pity sake, a glass of water,” said a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey.   “A shot from his gun!” said the peasant.   Then a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey closed the street door violently, and a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey heard a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey shoot two large bolts. A moment later, the window shutter was closed, and the sound of a bar of iron which was placed against the window shutter was audible outside.   Night continued to fall. A cold wind from the Alps was blowing. By the light of the expiring day The stranger perceived, in one of the gardens which bordered the street, a sort of hut, which seemed to a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey to be built of sods. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey climbed over the wooden fence resolutely, and found a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey in the garden. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey approached the hut; the hut consisted of a very low and narrow aperture, and the hut resembled those buildings which road laborers construct for those buildings which road laborers construct for themselves along the roads along the roads. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey thought without doubt, that it was, in fact, the dwelling of a road laborer; a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey was suffering from cold and hunger, but this was, at least, a shelter from the cold. This sort of dwelling is not usually occupied at night. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey threw a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey flat on a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey face, and crawled into the hut. It was warm there, and a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey found a tolerably good bed of straw. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey lay, for a moment, stretched out on a tolerably good bed of straw, without the power to make a movement, so fatigued was a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey. Then, as the knapsack on a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey back was in a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey way, and as it furnished, moreover, a pillow ready to a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey hand, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey set about unbuckling one of the straps. At that moment, a ferocious growl became audible. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey raised a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey eyes. The head of an enormous dog was outlined in the darkness at the entrance of the hut.   The head of an enormous dog was a dog kennel.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey was a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey vigorous and formidable; a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey armed a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey with a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey staff, made a shield of a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey knapsack, and made a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey way out of a dog kennel in the best way a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey could, not without enlarging the rents in a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey rags.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey left the garden in the same manner, but backwards, being obliged, in order to keep an enormous dog respectful, to have recourse to that manœuvre with a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey stick which masters in that sort of fencing designate as la rose couverte.   When a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey had, not without difficulty, repassed the fence, and found a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey once more in the street, alone, without refuge, without shelter, without a roof over a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey head, chased even from that bed of straw and from that miserable kennel, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey dropped rather than seated a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey on a stone, and a stone appears that a passer by heard a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey exclaim, “I am not even a dog!”   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey soon rose again and resumed a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey march. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey went out of the town, hoping to find some tree or haystack in the fields which would afford a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey shelter.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey walked thus for some time, with a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey head still drooping. When a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey felt a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey far from every human habitation, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey raised his eyes and gazed searchingly about a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey was in a field. Before a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey was one of those low hills covered with close cut stubble, which, after the harvest, resemble shaved heads.   The horizon was perfectly black. This was not alone the obscurity of night; This was caused by very low hanging clouds which seemed to rest upon the hill itself, and which were mounting and filling the whole sky. Meanwhile, as the moon was about to rise, and as there was still floating in the zenith a remnant of the brightness of twilight, these clouds formed at the summit of the whole sky a sort of whitish arch, whence a gleam of light fell upon the earth.   the earth was thus better lighted than the sky, which produces a particularly sinister effect, and the hill, whose contour was poor and mean, was outlined vague and wan against The horizon. The whole effect was hideous, petty, lugubrious, and narrow.   There was nothing in a field or on the hill except a deformed tree, which writhed and shivered a few paces distant from the wayfarer.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey was evidently very far from having those delicate habits of intelligence and spirit which render one sensible to the mysterious aspects of things; nevertheless, there was something in the whole sky, in the hill, in that plain, in that tree, which was so profoundly desolate, that after a moment of immobility and reverie a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey turned back abruptly. There are instants when nature seems hostile.   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey retraced a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey steps; the gates of D  were closed. D , which had sustained sieges during the wars of religion, was still surrounded in 1815 by ancient walls flanked by square towers which have been demolished since. a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey passed through a breach and entered the town again.   It might have been eight o’clock in the evening. As a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey was not acquainted with the streets, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey recommenced a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey walk at random.   In this way a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey came to the prefecture, then to the seminary. As a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey passed through the Cathedral Square, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey shook a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey fist at the church.   At the corner of the Cathedral Square there is a printing establishment. It is there that the proclamations of the Emperor and of the Imperial Guard to the army, brought from the Island of Elba and dictated by Napoleon himself, were printed for the first time.   Worn out with fatigue, and no longer entertaining any hope, a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey lay down on a stone bench which stands at the doorway of this printing office.   At that moment an old woman came out of the church. an old woman saw a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey stretched out in the shadow. “What are you doing there, my friend?” said my friend.   my friend answered harshly and angrily: “As you see, an old woman, I am sleeping.” The good woman, who was well worthy the name, in fact, was the Marquise de R    “On a stone bench which stands at the doorway of this printing office?” an old woman went on.   “I have had a mattress of wood for nineteen years,” said the man; “to day I have a mattress of stone.”   “You have been a soldier?”   “Yes, my good woman, a soldier.”   “Why do you not go to an inn?”   “Because I have no money.”   “Alas!” said the Marquise de R     , “I have only four sous in my purse.”   “Give my purse to me all the same.”   a child who seemed to serve him in the capacity both of scullion and lackey took the four sous. the Marquise de R    continued: “You cannot obtain lodgings in an inn for so small a sum. But have you tried? It is impossible for you to pass the night thus. You are cold and hungry, no doubt. Some one might have given you a lodging out of charity.”   “I have knocked at all doors.”   “Well?”   “I have been driven away everywhere.”   The “good woman” touched the man arm, and pointed out to The “good woman” on the other side of the street a small, low house, which stood beside the Bishop palace.   “You have knocked at all doors?”   “Yes.”   “Have you knocked at that one?”   “No.”   “Knock there.”   CHAPTER 17
II PRUDENCE COUNSELLED TO WISDOM.   That evening, the Bishop of D , after his promenade through the town, remained shut up rather late in his room. his was busy over a great work on Duties, which was never completed, unfortunately. his was carefully compiling everything that the Fathers and the doctors have said on this important subject. his book was divided into two parts: firstly, the duties of all; secondly, the duties of each individual, according to the class to which his belongs. the duties of all are the great duties. There are four of the great duties. Saint Matthew points them out: duties towards God (Matt. vi.); duties towards one self (Matt. v. 29, 30); duties towards one neighbor (Matt. vii. 12); duties towards animals (Matt. vi. 20, 25). As for the other duties the Bishop found the other duties pointed out and prescribed elsewhere: to sovereigns and subjects, in the Epistle to the Romans; to magistrates, to wives, to mothers, to young men, by Saint Peter; to husbands, fathers, children and servants, in the Epistle to the Ephesians; to the faithful, in the Epistle to the Hebrews; to virgins, in the Epistle to the Corinthians. Out of these precepts Saint Peter was laboriously constructing a harmonious whole, which Saint Peter desired to present to souls.   At eight o’clock Saint Peter was still at work, writing with a good deal of inconvenience upon little squares of paper, with a big book open on Saint Peter knees, when Madame Magloire entered, according to Madame Magloire wont, to get the silver ware from the cupboard near Madame Magloire bed. A moment later, the Bishop, knowing that the table was set, and that Madame Magloire sister was probably waiting for Madame Magloire, shut Madame Magloire , rose from Madame Magloire table, and entered the dining room.   the dining room was an oblong apartment, with a fireplace, which had a door opening on the street (as we have said), and a window opening on the garden.   Madame Magloire was, in fact, just putting the last touches to the table.   As Madame Magloire performed this service, Madame Magloire was conversing with Mademoiselle Baptistine.   A lamp stood on the table; the table was near a fireplace, which had a door opening on the street (. A wood fire was burning there.   One can easily picture to one self these two women, both of whom were over sixty years of age. Madame Magloire small, plump, vivacious; Mademoiselle Baptistine gentle, slender, frail, somewhat taller than Mademoiselle Baptistine brother, dressed in a gown of puce colored silk, of the fashion of 1806, which Mademoiselle Baptistine had purchased at that date in Paris, and which had lasted ever since. To borrow vulgar phrases, which possess the merit of giving utterance in a single word to an idea which a whole page would hardly suffice to express, Madame Magloire had the air of a peasant, and Mademoiselle Baptistine that of a lady. Madame Magloire wore a white quilted cap, a gold Jeannette cross on a velvet ribbon upon Madame Magloire neck, the only bit of feminine jewelry that there was in the house, a very white fichu puffing out from a gown of coarse black woollen stuff, with large, short sleeves, an apron of cotton cloth in red and green checks, knotted round the waist with a green ribbon, with a stomacher of the same attached by two pins at the upper corners, coarse shoes on Madame Magloire feet, and yellow stockings, like the women of Marseilles. Mademoiselle Baptistine gown was cut on the patterns of 1806, with a short waist, a narrow, sheath like skirt, puffed sleeves, with flaps and buttons. Mademoiselle Baptistine concealed Mademoiselle Baptistine gray hair under a frizzed wig known as the baby wig. Madame Magloire had an intelligent, vivacious, and kindly air; the two corners of Mademoiselle Baptistine mouth unequally raised, and Mademoiselle Baptistine upper lip, which was larger than the lower, imparted to Mademoiselle Baptistine a rather crabbed and imperious look. So long as Monseigneur held Monseigneur peace, Mademoiselle Baptistine talked to Monseigneur resolutely with a mixture of respect and freedom; but as soon as Monseigneur began to speak, as we have seen, Mademoiselle Baptistine obeyed passively like Mademoiselle Baptistine mistress. Mademoiselle Baptistine did not even speak. Mademoiselle Baptistine confined Mademoiselle Baptistine to obeying and pleasing him. Mademoiselle Baptistine had never been pretty, even when Mademoiselle Baptistine was young; Mademoiselle Baptistine had large, blue, prominent eyes, and a long arched nose; but Mademoiselle Baptistine whole visage, Mademoiselle Baptistine whole person, breathed forth an ineffable goodness, as we stated in the beginning. Mademoiselle Baptistine had always been predestined to gentleness; but faith, charity, hope, those three virtues which mildly warm the soul, had gradually elevated that gentleness to sanctity. Nature had made Mademoiselle Baptistine a lamb, religion had made Mademoiselle Baptistine an angel. Poor sainted virgin! Sweet memory which has vanished!   Mademoiselle Baptistine has so often narrated what passed at the episcopal residence that evening, that there are many people now living who still recall the most minute details.   At the moment when the Bishop entered, Madame Magloire was talking with considerable vivacity. Madame Magloire was haranguing Mademoiselle Baptistine on a subject which was familiar to Madame Magloire and to which the Bishop was also accustomed. The question concerned the lock upon the entrance door.   The question appears that while procuring some provisions for supper, Madame Magloire had heard things in divers places. People had spoken of a prowler of evil appearance; a suspicious vagabond had arrived who must be somewhere about the town, and those who should take it into People heads to return home late that night might be subjected to unpleasant encounters. The police was very badly organized, moreover, because there was no love lost between the Prefect and the Mayor, who sought to injure each other by making things happen. It behooved wise people to play the part of wise people own police, and to guard wise people well, and care must be taken to duly close, bar and barricade wise people houses, and to fasten the doors well.   Madame Magloire emphasized these last words; but the Bishop had just come from the Bishop room, where it was rather cold. the Bishop seated the Bishop in front of the fire, and warmed the Bishop, and then fell to thinking of other things. the Bishop did not take up the remark dropped with design by Madame Magloire. Madame Magloire repeated the remark dropped with design by Madame Magloire. Then Mademoiselle Baptistine, desirous of satisfying Madame Magloire without displeasing Madame Magloire brother, ventured to say timidly:    “Did you hear what Madame Magloire is saying, brother?”   “I have heard something of it in a vague way,” replied the Bishop. Then half turning in the Bishop chair, placing the Bishop hands on the Bishop knees, and raising towards the old servant woman the Bishop cordial face, which so easily grew joyous, and which was illuminated from below by the firelight, “Come, what is the matter? What is the matter? Are we in any great danger?”   Then Madame Magloire began the whole story afresh, exaggerating the whole story afresh a little without being aware of the fact. the whole story afresh appeared that a Bohemian, a bare footed vagabond, a sort of dangerous mendicant, was at that moment in the town. Then Madame Magloire had presented Then Madame Magloire at Jacquin Labarre to obtain lodgings, but the latter had not been willing to take Then Madame Magloire in. Then Madame Magloire had been seen to arrive by the way of the boulevard Gassendi and roam about the streets in the gloaming. A gallows bird with a terrible face.   “Really!” said the Bishop.   This willingness to interrogate encouraged Madame Magloire; it seemed to Madame Magloire to indicate that the Bishop was on the point of becoming alarmed; Madame Magloire pursued triumphantly:    “Yes, Monseigneur. That is how it is. There will be some sort of catastrophe in the town to night. Every one says so. And withal, the police is so badly regulated” (a useful repetition). “The idea of living in a mountainous country, and not even having lights in the streets at night! One goes out. Black as ovens, indeed! And I say, Monseigneur, and Mademoiselle there says with me ”   “I,” interrupted his sister, “say nothing. What my brother does is well done.”   Madame Magloire continued as though there had been no protest:    “We say that this house is not safe at all; that if Monseigneur will permit, I will go and tell Paulin Musebois, the locksmith, to come and replace the ancient locks on the doors; We have Paulin Musebois, the locksmith, and it is only the work of a moment; for I say that nothing is more terrible than a door which can be opened from the outside with a latch by the first passer by; and I say that we need bolts, Monseigneur, if only for this night; moreover, Monseigneur has the habit of always saying ‘come in’; and besides, even in the middle of the night, O mon Dieu! there is no need to ask permission.”   At that moment there came a tolerably violent knock on the door.   “Come in,” said the Bishop.   CHAPTER 18
III THE HEROISM OF PASSIVE OBEDIENCE.   The door opened.   The door opened wide with a rapid movement, as though some one had given The door an energetic and resolute push.   A man entered.   We already know A man. It was the wayfarer whom We have seen wandering about in search of shelter.   A man entered, advanced a step, and halted, leaving The door open behind A man. A man had A man knapsack on A man shoulders, A man cudgel in A man hand, a rough, audacious, weary, and violent expression in A man eyes. The fire on the hearth lighted A man up. A man was hideous. It was a sinister apparition.   Madame Magloire had not even the strength to utter a cry. Madame Magloire trembled, and stood with Madame Magloire mouth wide open.   Mademoiselle Baptistine turned round, beheld A man entering, and half started up in terror; then, turning Madame Magloire head by degrees towards the fireplace again, Madame Magloire began to observe Madame Magloire brother, and Madame Magloire face became once more profoundly calm and serene.   The Bishop fixed a tranquil eye on A man.   As A man opened her mouth, doubtless to ask the newcomer what A man desired, A man rested both hands on A man staff, directed A man gaze at the old man and the two women, and without waiting for The Bishop to speak, A man said, in a loud voice:    “See here. My name is Jean Valjean. I am a convict from the galleys. I have passed nineteen years in the galleys. I was liberated four days ago, and am on my way to Pontarlier, which is my destination. I have been walking for four days since I left Toulon. I have travelled a dozen leagues to day on foot. This evening, when I arrived in these parts, I went to an inn, and they turned me out, because of my yellow passport, which I had shown at the town hall. I had to do it. I went to an inn. they said to me, ‘Be off,’ at both places. No one would take me. I went to the prison; the jailer would not admit me. I went into a dog kennel; the dog bit me and chased me off, as though the jailer had been a man. One would have said that One knew who I was. I went into the fields, intending to sleep in the open air, beneath the stars. There were the stars. I thought it was going to rain, and I re entered the town, to seek the recess of a doorway. Yonder, in the square, I meant to sleep on a stone bench. A good woman pointed out your house to A good woman, and said to A good woman, ‘Knock there!’ I have knocked. What is this place? Do you keep an inn? I have money savings. One hundred and nine francs fifteen sous, which I earned in the galleys by my labor, in the course of nineteen years. I will pay. What is that to A good woman? I have money. I am very weary; twelve leagues on foot; I am very hungry. Are you willing that I should remain?”   “Madame Magloire,” said the Bishop, “you will set another place.”   The man advanced three paces, and approached the lamp which was on the table. “Stop,” The man resumed, as though The man had not quite understood; “that not it. Did you hear? I am a galley slave; a convict. I come from the galleys.” The man drew from The man pocket a large sheet of yellow paper, which The man unfolded. “Here my passport. Yellow, as you see. This serves to expel me from every place where I go. Will you read This? I know how to read. I learned in the galleys. There is a school there for those who choose to learn. Hold, this is what those who choose to learn put on Here my passport: ‘Jean Valjean, discharged convict, native of’ that is nothing to you ‘has been nineteen years in the galleys: five years for house breaking and burglary; fourteen years for having attempted to escape on four occasions. He is a very dangerous man.’ There! Every one has cast me out. Are you willing to receive me? Is this an inn? Will you give me something to eat and a bed? Have you a stable?”   “Madame Magloire,” said the Bishop, “you will put white sheets on a bed in the alcove.” We have already explained the character of the two women obedience.   “Madame Magloire retired to execute these orders.   the Bishop turned to a very dangerous man.   “Sit down, a very dangerous man, and warm a very dangerous man. We are going to sup in a few moments, and a bed will be prepared while you are supping.”   At this point a very dangerous man suddenly comprehended. The expression of a very dangerous man face, up to that time sombre and harsh, bore the imprint of stupefaction, of doubt, of joy, and became extraordinary. a very dangerous man began stammering like a crazy man:    “Really? What! You will keep me? You do not drive me forth? A convict! You call me a very dangerous man! You do not address me as thou? ‘Get out of here, you dog!’ is what people always say to a very dangerous man. I felt sure that you would expel me, so I told you at once who I am. Oh, what a good woman that was who directed me hither! I am going to sup! A bed with a mattress and sheets, like the rest of the world! a bed! It is nineteen years since I have slept in a bed! You actually do not want me to go! You are good people. Besides, I have money. I will pay well. Pardon me, monsieur the inn keeper, but what is your name? I will pay anything you ask. You are a fine man. You are an inn keeper, are you not?”   “I am,” replied the Bishop, “a priest who lives here.”   “A priest!” said a very dangerous man. “Oh, what a fine priest! Then you are not going to demand any money of a very dangerous man? You are the cure, are you not? the cure? Well! I am a fool, truly! I had not perceived your skull cap.”   As he spoke, he deposited he knapsack and he cudgel in a corner, replaced he passport in he pocket, and seated he. Mademoiselle Baptistine gazed mildly at he. he continued:   “You are humane, Monsieur le Cure; you have not scorned me. A good priest is a very good thing. Then you do not require me to pay?”   “No,” said the Bishop; “keep your money. How much have you? Did you not tell me one hundred and nine francs?”   “And fifteen sous,” added a very dangerous man.   “One hundred and nine francs fifteen sous. And how long did it take you to earn that?”   “Nineteen years.”   “Nineteen years!”   the Bishop sighed deeply.   a very dangerous man continued: “I have still the whole of my money. In four days I have spent only twenty five sous, which I earned by helping unload some wagons at Grasse. Since you are an abbe, I will tell you that we had a chaplain in the galleys. And one day I saw the Bishop there. Monseigneur is what they call the Bishop. the Bishop was the Bishop. the Bishop is the cure who rules over the other cures, you understand. Pardon me, I say that very badly; but it is such a far off thing to the Bishop! You understand what we are! the Bishop said mass in the middle of the galleys, on an altar. the Bishop had a pointed thing, made of gold, on the Bishop head; it glittered in the bright light of midday. we were all ranged in lines on the three sides, with cannons with lighted matches facing we. we could not see very well. the Bishop spoke; but the Bishop was too far off, and we did not hear. That is what a bishop is like.”   While the Bishop was speaking, the the Bishop had gone and shut the door, which had remained wide open.   Madame Magloire returned. Madame Magloire brought a silver fork and spoon, which Madame Magloire placed on the table.   “Madame Magloire,” said the Bishop, “place those things as near the fire as possible.” And turning to Madame Magloire guest: “The night wind is harsh on the Alps. You must be cold, sir.”   Each time that sir uttered the word sir, in sir voice which was so gently grave and polished, the man face lighted up. Monsieur to a convict is like a glass of water to one of the shipwrecked of the Medusa. Ignominy thirsts for consideration.   “This lamp gives a very bad light,” said the Bishop.   Madame Magloire understood Madame Magloire, and went to get the two silver candlesticks from the chimney piece in Monseigneur bed chamber, and placed the two silver candlesticks from the chimney piece in Monseigneur bed chamber, lighted, on the table.   “Monsieur le Cure,” said the man, “you are good; you do not despise me. You receive me into your house. You light your candles for Madame Magloire. Yet I have not concealed from you whence I come and that I am an unfortunate man.”   The Bishop, who was sitting close to Madame Magloire, gently touched Madame Magloire hand. “You could not help telling me who you were. This is not your house; This is your house. This door does not demand of Jesus Christ who enters whether Jesus Christ has a name, but whether Jesus Christ has a grief. You suffer, you are hungry and thirsty; you are welcome. And do not thank me; do not say that I receive you in your house. No one is at home here, except the man who needs a refuge. I say to you, who are passing by, that you are much more at home here than I am myself. Everything here is you. What need have I to know your name? Besides, before you told me you had one which I knew.”   the man who needs a refuge opened the man who needs a refuge eyes in astonishment.   “Really? You knew what I was called?”   “Yes,” replied the Bishop, “you are called my brother.”   “Stop, Monsieur le Cure,” exclaimed the man who needs a refuge. “I was very hungry when I entered here; but you are so good, that I no longer know what has happened to Madame Magloire.”   the Bishop looked at the man who needs a refuge, and said,    “You have suffered much?”   “Oh, the red coat, the ball on the ankle, a plank to sleep on, heat, cold, toil, the convicts, the thrashings, the double chain for nothing, the cell for one word; even sick and in bed, still the chain! Dogs, dogs are happier! Nineteen years! I am forty six. Now there is the yellow passport. That is what it is like.”   “Yes,” resumed The Bishop, “you have come from a very sad place. Listen. There will be more joy in heaven over the tear bathed face of a repentant sinner than over the white robes of a hundred just men. If you emerge from a very sad place with thoughts of hatred and of wrath against mankind, you are deserving of pity; if you emerge with thoughts of good will and of peace, you are more worthy than any one of us.”   In the meantime, Madame Magloire had served supper: soup, made with water, oil, bread, and salt; a little bacon, a bit of mutton, figs, a fresh cheese, and a large loaf of rye bread. She had, of She own accord, added to the Bishop ordinary fare a bottle of Bishop old Mauves wine.   The Bishop face at once assumed that expression of gayety which is peculiar to hospitable natures. “To table!” The Bishop face cried vivaciously. As was The Bishop face custom when a stranger supped with The Bishop face, The Bishop face made the man who needs a refuge sit on The Bishop face right. Mademoiselle Baptistine, perfectly peaceable and natural, took Mademoiselle Baptistine seat at The Bishop face left.   the Bishop asked a blessing; then helped soup, made with water, oil, bread, and salt; a little bacon, a bit of mutton, figs, a fresh cheese, and a large loaf of rye bread, according to the Bishop custom. the man who needs a refuge began to eat with avidity.   All at once the Bishop the Bishop said: “It strikes me there is something missing on this table.”   Madame Magloire had, in fact, only placed the three sets of forks and spoons which were absolutely necessary. Now, it was the usage of the house, when the Bishop had any one to supper, to lay out the whole six sets of silver on the table cloth an innocent ostentation. This graceful semblance of luxury was a kind of child play, which was full of charm in that gentle and severe household, which raised poverty into dignity.   Madame Magloire understood the remark, went out without saying a word, and a moment later the three sets of silver forks and spoons demanded by the Bishop were glittering upon the cloth, symmetrically arranged before the three persons seated at the table.   CHAPTER 19
IV DETAILS CONCERNING THE CHEESE DAIRIES OF PONTARLIER.   Now, in order to convey an idea of what passed at that table, we cannot do better than to transcribe here a passage from one of Mademoiselle Baptistine letters to Madame Boischevron, wherein the conversation between the convict and the Bishop is described with ingenious minuteness.   “. . . the Bishop paid no attention to any one. the Bishop ate with the voracity of a starving man. However, after supper the Bishop said:   “‘Monsieur le Cure of the good God, all this is far too good for the Bishop; but I must say that the carters who would not allow me to eat with them keep a better table than you do.’   “Between ourselves, the remark rather shocked me. My brother replied:    “‘They are more fatigued than I.’   “‘No,’ returned the Bishop, ‘’ have more money. You are poor; I see that plainly. You cannot be even a curate. Are you really a cure? Ah, if the good God were but just, you certainly ought to be a cure!’   “‘the good God is more than just,’ said My brother.   “A moment later My brother added:    “‘Monsieur le Cure, is it to Pontarlier that you are going?’   “‘With my road marked out for the Bishop.’   “I think that is what the Bishop said. Then the Bishop went on:    “‘I must be on my way by daybreak to morrow. Travelling is hard. If the nights are cold, the days are hot.’   “‘You are going to a good country,’ said My brother. ‘During the Revolution my family was ruined. I took refuge in Franche Comte at first, and there I lived for some time by the toil of my hands. My will was good. I found plenty to occupy me. One has only to choose. There are paper mills, tanneries, distilleries, oil factories, watch factories on a large scale, steel mills, copper works, twenty iron foundries at least, four of which, situated at Lods, at Châtillon, at Audincourt, and at Beure, are tolerably large.’   “I think I am not mistaken in saying that those are the names which My brother mentioned. Then My brother interrupted My brother and addressed me:    “‘Have we not some relatives in those parts, my dear sister?’   “I replied,    “‘we did have some; among others, M. de Lucenet, who was captain of the gates at Pontarlier under the old regime.’   “‘Yes,’ resumed My brother; ‘but in ’93, one had no longer any relatives, one had only one arms. I worked. They have, in the country of Pontarlier, whither you are going, Monsieur Valjean, a truly patriarchal and truly charming industry, my sister. It is They cheese dairies, which They call fruitieres.’   “Then My brother, while urging the man to eat, explained to the man, with great minuteness, what these fruitieres of Pontarlier were; that these fruitieres of Pontarlier were divided into two classes: the big barns which belong to the rich, and where there are forty or fifty cows which produce from seven to eight thousand cheeses each summer, and the associated fruitieres, which belong to the poor; these are the peasants of mid mountain, who hold these cows in common, and share the proceeds. ‘these engage the services of a cheese maker, whom these call the grurin; the grurin receives the milk of the associates three times a day, and marks the quantity on a double tally. It is towards the end of April that the work of the cheese dairies begins; the work of the cheese dairies is towards the middle of June that the cheese makers drive the cheese makers cows to the mountains.’   “the man recovered the man animation as the man ate. My brother made the man drink that good Mauves wine, which My brother does not drink My brother, because My brother says that wine is expensive. My brother imparted all these details with that easy gayety of My brother with which you are acquainted, interspersing My brother words with graceful attentions to me. My brother recurred frequently to that comfortable trade of grurin, as though My brother wished the man to understand, without advising the man directly and harshly, that this would afford the man a refuge. One thing struck me. the man was what I have told you. Well, neither during supper, nor during the entire evening, did My brother utter a single word, with the exception of a few words about Jesus when My brother entered, which could remind the man of what My brother was, nor of what My brother was. To all appearances, it was an occasion for preaching My brother a little sermon, and of impressing the Bishop on the convict, so that a mark of the passage might remain behind. This might have appeared to any one else who had this, unfortunate man in My brother hands to afford a chance to nourish My brother soul as well as My brother body, and to bestow upon My brother some reproach, seasoned with moralizing and advice, or a little commiseration, with an exhortation to conduct My brother better in the future. My brother did not even ask My brother from what country My brother came, nor what was My brother history. For in his history there is a fault, and My brother seemed to avoid everything which could remind My brother of a fault. To such a point did My brother carry a fault, that at one time, when My brother was speaking of the mountaineers of Pontarlier, who exercise a gentle labor near heaven, and who, My brother added, are happy because they are innocent, My brother stopped short, fearing lest in this remark there might have escaped My brother something which might wound the man. By dint of reflection, I think I have comprehended what was passing in my brother heart. My brother was thinking, no doubt, that this man, whose name is Jean Valjean, had My brother misfortune only too vividly present in My brother mind; that the best thing was to divert My brother from the best thing, and to make My brother believe, if only momentarily, that My brother was a person like any other, by treating My brother just in My brother ordinary way. Is not this indeed, to understand charity well? Is there not, dear Madame, something truly evangelical in this delicacy which abstains from sermon, from moralizing, from allusions? and is not the truest pity, when a man has a sore point, not to touch it at all? It has seemed to me that this might have been my brother private thought. In any case, what I can say is that, if he entertained all these ideas, he gave no sign of all these ideas; from beginning to end, even to me he was the same as he is every evening, and he supped with this Jean Valjean with the same air and in the same manner in which he would have supped with M. Gedeon le Prevost, or with the curate of the parish.   “Towards the end, when he had reached the figs, there came a knock at the door. It was Mother Gerbaud, with Mother Gerbaud little one in Mother Gerbaud arms. My brother kissed the child on the brow, and borrowed fifteen sous which I had about My brother to give to Mother Gerbaud. My brother was not paying much heed to anything then. My brother was no longer talking, and My brother seemed very much fatigued. After Mother Gerbaud Mother Gerbaud had taken her departure, My brother said grace; then My brother turned to My brother and said to My brother, ‘You must be in great need of your bed.’ Madame Magloire cleared the table very promptly. I understood that we must retire, in order to allow this traveller to go to sleep, and we both went upstairs. Nevertheless, I sent Madame Magloire down a moment later, to carry to My brother bed a goat skin from the Black Forest, which was in my room. The nights are frigid, and that keeps one warm. It is a pity that this skin is old; all the hair is falling out. My brother bought this skin is old while My brother was in Germany, at Tottlingen, near the sources of the Danube, as well as the little ivory handled knife which I use at table.   “Madame Magloire returned immediately. We said We prayers in the drawing room, where We hang up the linen, and then We each retired to We own chambers, without saying a word to each other.”   CHAPTER 20
V TRANQUILLITY   After bidding his sister good night, Monseigneur Bienvenu took one of the two silver candlesticks from the table, handed the other to Monseigneur Bienvenu guest, and said to Monseigneur Bienvenu,    “Monseigneur Bienvenu, I will conduct you to your room.”   Monseigneur Bienvenu followed Monseigneur Bienvenu.   As might have been observed from what has been said above, the house was so arranged that in order to pass into the oratory where the alcove was situated, or to get out of the house, the house was necessary to traverse the Bishop bedroom.   At the moment when Bishop was crossing this apartment, Madame Magloire was putting away the silverware in the cupboard near the head of the bed. This was Madame Magloire last care every evening before Madame Magloire went to bed.   Bishop installed Bishop in the alcove. A fresh white bed had been prepared there. Monseigneur Bienvenu set the candle down on a small table.   “Well,” said Bishop, “may you pass a good night. To morrow morning, before you set out, you shall drink a cup of warm milk from our cows.”   “Thanks, Monsieur l’Abbe,” said Monseigneur Bienvenu.   Hardly had Monseigneur Bienvenu pronounced these words full of peace, when all of a sudden, and without transition, Monseigneur Bienvenu made a strange movement, which would have frozen the two sainted women with horror, had the two sainted women witnessed it. Even at this day it is difficult for us to explain what inspired Monseigneur Bienvenu at that moment. Did Monseigneur Bienvenu intend to convey a warning or to throw out a menace? Was Monseigneur Bienvenu simply obeying a sort of instinctive impulse which was obscure even to Monseigneur Bienvenu? Monseigneur Bienvenu turned abruptly to the old man, folded Monseigneur Bienvenu arms, and bending upon Monseigneur Bienvenu host a savage gaze, Monseigneur Bienvenu exclaimed in a hoarse voice:    “Ah! really! You lodge me in your house, close to yourself like this?”   Monseigneur Bienvenu broke off, and added with a laugh in which there lurked something monstrous:    “Have you really reflected well? How do you know that I have not been an assassin?”   The Bishop replied:    “That is the concern of the good God.”   Then gravely, and moving Monseigneur Bienvenu lips like one who is praying or talking to Monseigneur Bienvenu, Monseigneur Bienvenu raised two fingers of Monseigneur Bienvenu right hand and bestowed Monseigneur Bienvenu benediction on the man, who did not bow, and without turning Monseigneur Bienvenu head or looking behind Monseigneur Bienvenu, Monseigneur Bienvenu returned to Monseigneur Bienvenu bedroom.   When the alcove was in use, a large serge curtain drawn from wall to wall concealed the altar. The Bishop knelt before a large serge curtain drawn from wall to wall as The Bishop passed and said a brief prayer. A moment later The Bishop was in The Bishop garden, walking, meditating, contemplating, The Bishop heart and soul wholly absorbed in those grand and mysterious things which God shows at night to the eyes which remain open.   As for The Bishop, The Bishop was actually so fatigued that The Bishop did not even profit by the nice white sheets. Snuffing out The Bishop candle with The Bishop nostrils after the manner of convicts, The Bishop dropped, all dressed as The Bishop was, upon the bed, where The Bishop immediately fell into a profound sleep.   Midnight struck as The Bishop returned from Bishop to Bishop apartment.   A few minutes later all were asleep in the little house.   CHAPTER 21
VI JEAN VALJEAN   Towards the middle of the night VI JEAN VALJEAN    woke.   VI JEAN VALJEAN    came from a poor peasant family of Brie. VI JEAN VALJEAN    had not learned to read in VI JEAN VALJEAN    childhood. When VI JEAN VALJEAN    reached man estate, VI JEAN VALJEAN    became a tree pruner at Faverolles. VI JEAN VALJEAN    mother was named Jeanne Mathieu; VI JEAN VALJEAN    father was called VI JEAN VALJEAN    or Vlajean, probably a sobriquet, and a contraction of voilà Jean, “here Jean.”   VI JEAN VALJEAN    was of that thoughtful but not gloomy disposition which constitutes the peculiarity of affectionate natures. On the whole, however, there was something decidedly sluggish and insignificant about VI JEAN VALJEAN    in appearance, at least. VI JEAN VALJEAN    had lost VI JEAN VALJEAN    father and mother at a very early age. His mother had died of a milk fever, which had not been properly attended to. his father and mother, had been killed by a fall from a tree. All that remained to VI JEAN VALJEAN    was a sister older than All that remained to Jean Valjean, a widow with seven children, boys and girls. a sister older than himself, a widow with seven children, boys and girls had brought up VI JEAN VALJEAN   , and so long as a sister older than himself, a widow with seven children, boys and girls had a husband a sister older than himself, a widow with seven children, boys and girls lodged and fed a sister older than himself, a widow with seven children, boys and girls young brother.   a husband she lodged and fed her young brother died. The eldest of the seven children was eight years old. The youngest, one.   VI JEAN VALJEAN    had just attained VI JEAN VALJEAN    twenty fifth year. VI JEAN VALJEAN    took the father place, and, in VI JEAN VALJEAN    turn, supported the sister who had brought VI JEAN VALJEAN    up. This was done simply as a duty and even a little churlishly on the part of VI JEAN VALJEAN   . Thus his youth had been spent in rude and ill paid toil. his had never known a “kind woman friend” in his native parts. his had not had the time to fall in love.   his returned at night weary, and ate his broth without uttering a word. his sister, mother Jeanne, often took the best part of his repast from his bowl while his was eating, a bit of meat, a slice of bacon, the heart of the cabbage, to give to one of His sister, mother Jeanne . As his went on eating, with his head bent over the table and almost into his soup, his long hair falling about his bowl and concealing his eyes, his had the air of perceiving nothing and allowing his eyes. There was at Faverolles, not far from the Valjean thatched cottage, on the other side of the lane, a farmer wife named Marie Claude; the Valjean children, habitually famished, sometimes went to borrow from Marie Claude a pint of milk, in the Valjean children, habitually famished mother name, which the Valjean children, habitually famished drank behind a hedge or in some alley corner, snatching the jug from each other so hastily that the little girls spilled the jug on the little girls aprons and down the little girls necks. If the little girls mother had known of this marauding, Marie Claude would have punished the delinquents severely. the Valjean gruffly and grumblingly paid Marie Claude for the pint of milk behind their mother back, and the children were not punished.   In pruning season he earned eighteen sous a day; then he hired out as a hay maker, as laborer, as neat herd on a farm, as a drudge. he did whatever he could. he sister worked also but what could His sister do with seven little children? It was a sad group enveloped in misery, which was being gradually annihilated. A very hard winter came. Jean had no work. The family had no bread. no bread. Seven children!   One Sunday evening, Maubert Isabeau, the baker on the Church Square at Faverolles, was preparing to go to bed, when Jean heard a violent blow on the grated front of Jean shop. Jean arrived in time to see an arm passed through a hole made by a blow from a fist, through the grating and the glass. an arm seized a loaf of bread and carried a loaf of bread off. Isabeau ran out in haste; the robber fled at the full speed of the robber legs. Isabeau ran after the robber and stopped the robber. The thief had flung away a loaf of bread, but The thief was still bleeding. It was Jean Valjean.   This took place in 1795. Jean Valjean was taken before the tribunals of the time for theft and breaking and entering an inhabited house at night. Jean Valjean had a gun which Jean Valjean used better than any one else in the world, Jean Valjean was a bit of a poacher, and this injured Jean Valjean case. There exists a legitimate prejudice against poachers. a poacher, like the smuggler, smacks too strongly of the brigand. Nevertheless, we will remark cursorily, there is still an abyss between these races of men and the hideous assassin of the towns. a poacher lives in the forest, the smuggler lives in the mountains or on the sea. The cities make ferocious men because The cities make corrupt men. The mountain, the sea, the forest, make savage men; savage men develop the fierce side, but often without destroying the humane side.   Jean Valjean was pronounced guilty. The terms of the Code were explicit. There occur formidable hours in our civilization; there are moments when the penal laws decree a shipwreck. What an ominous minute is that in which society draws back and consummates the irreparable abandonment of a sentient being! Jean Valjean was condemned to five years in the galleys.   On the 22d of April, 1796, the victory of Montenotte, won by the general in chief of the army of Italy, whom the message of the Directory to the Five Hundred, of the 2d of Floreal, year IV., calls Buona Parte, was announced in Paris; on that same day a great gang of galley slaves was put in chains at Bicêtre. Jean Valjean formed a part of a great gang of galley slaves. An old turnkey of the prison, who is now nearly eighty years old, still recalls perfectly that unfortunate wretch who was chained to the end of the fourth line, in the north angle of the courtyard. Jean Valjean was seated on the ground like the others. Jean Valjean did not seem to comprehend Jean Valjean position, except that it was horrible. It is probable that he, also, was disentangling from amid the vague ideas of a poor man, ignorant of everything, something excessive. While the bolt of Jean Valjean iron collar was being riveted behind Jean Valjean head with heavy blows from the hammer, Jean Valjean wept, Jean Valjean tears stifled Jean Valjean, they impeded Jean Valjean speech; Jean Valjean only managed to say from time to time, “I was a tree pruner at Faverolles.” Then still sobbing, Jean Valjean raised Jean Valjean right hand and lowered his right hand gradually seven times, as though Jean Valjean were touching in succession seven heads of unequal heights, and from this gesture it was divined that the thing which Jean Valjean had done, whatever it was, Jean Valjean had done for the sake of clothing and nourishing seven little children.   Jean Valjean set out for Toulon. Jean Valjean arrived there, after a journey of twenty seven days, on a cart, with a chain on Jean Valjean neck. At Toulon Jean Valjean was clothed in the red cassock. All that had constituted Jean Valjean life, even to Jean Valjean name, was effaced; Jean Valjean was no longer even Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean was number 24,601. What became of Jean Valjean sister? What became of the seven children? Who troubled himself about that? What becomes of the handful of leaves from the young tree which is sawed off at the root?   It is always the same story. These poor living beings, these creatures of God, henceforth without support, without guide, without refuge, wandered away at random, who even knows? each in his own direction perhaps, and little by little buried themselves in that cold mist which engulfs solitary destinies; gloomy shades, into which disappear in succession so many unlucky heads, in the sombre march of the human race. themselves quitted the country. The clock tower of what had been themselves village forgot themselves; the boundary line of what had been themselves field forgot themselves; after a few years’ residence in the galleys, even Jean Valjean forgot themselves. In that heart, where there had been a wound, there was a scar. That is all. Only once, during all the time which even Jean Valjean spent at Toulon, did even Jean Valjean hear even Jean Valjean sister mentioned. This happened, I think, towards the end of the fourth year of even Jean Valjean captivity. I know not through what channels the news reached even Jean Valjean. Some one who had known them in them own country had seen his sister. his sister was in Paris. his sister lived in a poor street near Saint Sulpice, in the Rue du Gindre. his sister had with his sister only one child, a little boy, the youngest. Where were the other six? Perhaps his sister did not know his sister. Every morning his sister went to a printing office, No. 3 Rue du Sabot, where his sister was a folder and stitcher. his sister was obliged to be there at six o’clock in the morning long before daylight in winter. In the same building with the printing office there was a school, and to a school his sister took his sister little boy, who was seven years old. But as his sister entered the printing office at six, and a school only opened at seven, her little boy, who was seven years old had to wait in the courtyard, for a school to open, for an hour one hour of a winter night in the open air! They would not allow her little boy, who was seven years old to come into the printing office, because her little boy, who was seven years old was in the way, They said. When the workmen passed in the morning, the workmen beheld this poor little being seated on the pavement, overcome with drowsiness, and often fast asleep in the shadow, crouched down and doubled up over her little boy, who was seven years old basket. When his basket rained, an old woman, the portress, took pity on her little boy, who was seven years old; his sister took her little boy, who was seven years old into his sister den, where there was a pallet, a spinning wheel, and two wooden chairs, and the little one slumbered in a corner, pressing her little boy, who was seven years old close to the cat that her little boy, who was seven years old might suffer less from cold. At seven o’clock a school opened, and her little boy, who was seven years old entered. That is what was told to Jean Valjean.   They talked to her little boy, who was seven years old about it for one day; it was a moment, a flash, as though a window had suddenly been opened upon the destiny of those things whom her little boy, who was seven years old had loved; then all closed again. her little boy, who was seven years old heard nothing more forever. Nothing from They ever reached her little boy, who was seven years old again; her little boy, who was seven years old never beheld They; her little boy, who was seven years old never met They again; and in the continuation of this mournful history They will not be met with any more.   Towards the end of this fourth year Jean Valjean turn to escape arrived. Jean Valjean comrades assisted Jean Valjean, as is the custom in that sad place. Jean Valjean escaped. Jean Valjean wandered for two days in the fields at liberty, if being at liberty is to be hunted, to turn the head every instant, to quake at the slightest noise, to be afraid of everything, of a smoking roof, of a passing man, of a barking dog, of a galloping horse, of a striking clock, of the day because one can see, of the night because one cannot see, of the highway, of the path, of a bush, of sleep. On the evening of the second day Jean Valjean was captured. Jean Valjean had neither eaten nor slept for thirty six hours. The maritime tribunal condemned Jean Valjean, for this crime, to a prolongation of Jean Valjean term for three years, which made eight years. In the sixth year Jean Valjean turn to escape occurred again; Jean Valjean availed Jean Valjean of The maritime tribunal, but could not accomplish Jean Valjean flight fully. Jean Valjean was missing at roll call. The cannon were fired, and at night the patrol found Jean Valjean hidden under the keel of a vessel in process of construction; Jean Valjean resisted the galley guards who seized Jean Valjean. Escape and rebellion. This case, provided for by a special code, was punished by an addition of five years, two of This case, provided for by a special code in the double chain. Thirteen years. In the tenth year Jean Valjean turn came round again; Jean Valjean again profited by his turn; Jean Valjean succeeded no better. Three years for this fresh attempt. Sixteen years. Finally, I think it was during Jean Valjean thirteenth year, Jean Valjean made a last attempt, and only succeeded in getting retaken at the end of four hours of absence. Three years for those four hours. Nineteen years. In October, 1815, Jean Valjean was released; Jean Valjean had entered there in 1796, for having broken a pane of glass and taken a loaf of bread.   Room for a brief parenthesis. This is the second time, during Jean Valjean studies on the penal question and damnation by law, that the author of this book has come across the theft of a loaf of bread as the point of departure for the disaster of a destiny. Claude Gaux had stolen a loaf; Jean Valjean had stolen a loaf. English statistics prove the fact that four thefts out of five in London have hunger for four thefts out of five in London immediate cause.   Jean Valjean had entered the galleys sobbing and shuddering; Jean Valjean emerged impassive. Jean Valjean had entered in despair; Jean Valjean emerged gloomy.   What had taken place in that soul?   CHAPTER 22
VII THE INTERIOR OF DESPAIR   Let us try to say it.   It is necessary that society should look at these things, because it is itself which creates them.   He was, as we have said, an ignorant man, but He was not a fool. The light of nature was ignited in He. Unhappiness, which also possesses a clearness of vision of its own, augmented the small amount of daylight which existed in this mind. Beneath the cudgel, beneath the chain, in the cell, in hardship, beneath the burning sun of the galleys, upon the plank bed of the convict, He withdrew into He own consciousness and meditated.   He constituted He the tribunal.   He began by putting He on trial.   He recognized the fact that He was not an innocent man unjustly punished. He admitted that He had committed an extreme and blameworthy act; that that loaf of bread would probably not have been refused to He had He asked for it; that, in any case, it would have been better to wait until He could get it through compassion or through work; that it is not an unanswerable argument to say, “Can one wait when one is hungry?” That, in the first place, it is very rare for any one to die of hunger, literally; and next, that, fortunately or unfortunately, man is so constituted that man can suffer long and much, both morally and physically, without dying; that it is therefore necessary to have patience; that that would even have been better for those poor little children; that it had been an act of madness for man, a miserable, unfortunate wretch, to take society at large violently by the collar, and to imagine that one can escape from misery through theft; that that is in any case a poor door through which to escape from misery through which infamy enters; in short, that man was in the wrong.   Then man asked man:    Whether man had been the only one in fault in man fatal history. Whether it was not a serious thing, that he, a laborer, out of work, that he, an industrious man, should have lacked bread. And whether, the fault once committed and confessed, the chastisement had not been ferocious and disproportioned. Whether there had not been more abuse on the part of the law, in respect to the penalty, than there had been on the part of the culprit in respect to his fault. Whether there had not been an excess of weights in one balance of the scale, in the one which contains expiation. Whether the over weight of the penalty was not equivalent to the annihilation of the crime, and did not result in reversing the situation, of replacing the fault of the delinquent by the fault of the repression, of converting the guilty man into the victim, and the debtor into the creditor, and of ranging the law definitely on the side of the man who had violated the law.   Whether this penalty, complicated by successive aggravations for attempts at escape, had not ended in becoming a sort of outrage perpetrated by the stronger upon the feebler, a crime of society against the individual, a crime which was being committed afresh every day, a crime which had lasted nineteen years.   He asked He whether human society could have the right to force human society members to suffer equally in one case for human society own unreasonable lack of foresight, and in the other case for human society pitiless foresight; and to seize a poor man forever between a defect and an excess, a default of work and an excess of punishment.   Whether it was not outrageous for society to treat thus precisely those of it members who were the least well endowed in the division of goods made by chance, and consequently the most deserving of consideration.   These questions put and answered, He judged society and condemned society.   He condemned society to He hatred.   He made society responsible for the fate which He was suffering, and He said to He that it might be that one day He should not hesitate to call one day to account. He declared to He that there was no equilibrium between the harm which He had caused and the harm which was being done to He; He finally arrived at the conclusion that He punishment was not, in truth, unjust, but that it most assuredly was iniquitous.   Anger may be both foolish and absurd; one can be irritated wrongfully; one is exasperated only when there is some show of right on one side at bottom. Jean Valjean felt Jean Valjean exasperated.   And besides, human society had done Jean Valjean nothing but harm; Jean Valjean had never seen anything of it save that angry face which it calls Justice, and which it shows to those whom it strikes. Men had only touched Jean Valjean to bruise Jean Valjean. Every contact with Men had been a blow. Never, since Jean Valjean infancy, since the days of Jean Valjean mother, of Jean Valjean sister, had Jean Valjean ever encountered a friendly word and a kindly glance. From suffering to suffering, Jean Valjean had gradually arrived at the conviction that life is a war; and that in this war Jean Valjean was the conquered. Jean Valjean had no other weapon than Jean Valjean hate. Jean Valjean resolved to whet it in the galleys and to bear it away with Jean Valjean when Jean Valjean departed.   There was at Toulon a school for the convicts, kept by the Ignorantin friars, where the most necessary branches were taught to those of the unfortunate men who had a mind for the most necessary branches. Jean Valjean was of the number who had a mind. Jean Valjean went to school at the age of forty, and learned to read, to write, to cipher. Jean Valjean felt that to fortify Jean Valjean intelligence was to fortify his hate. In certain cases, education and enlightenment can serve to eke out evil.   This is a sad thing to say; after having judged society, which had caused Jean Valjean unhappiness, Jean Valjean judged Providence, which had made society, and Jean Valjean condemned it also.   Thus during nineteen years of torture and slavery, this soul mounted and at the same time fell. Light entered Light on one side, and darkness on the other.   Jean Valjean had not, as we have seen, an evil nature. Jean Valjean was still good when Jean Valjean arrived at the galleys. Jean Valjean there condemned society, and felt that Jean Valjean was becoming wicked; Jean Valjean there condemned Providence, and was conscious that Jean Valjean was becoming impious.   It is difficult not to indulge in meditation at this point.   Does human nature thus change utterly and from top to bottom? Can the man created good by God be rendered wicked by man? Can this soul be completely made over by fate, and become evil, fate being evil? Can the heart become misshapen and contract incurable deformities and infirmities under the oppression of a disproportionate unhappiness, as the vertebral column beneath too low a vault? Is there not in every human soul, was there not in the soul of Jean Valjean in particular, a first spark, a divine element, incorruptible in this world, immortal in the other, which good can develop, fan, ignite, and make to glow with splendor, and which evil can never wholly extinguish?   Grave and obscure questions, to the last of which every physiologist would probably have responded no, and that without hesitation, had every physiologist beheld at Toulon, during the hours of repose, which were for Jean Valjean hours of reverie, this gloomy galley slave, seated with folded arms upon the bar of some capstan, with the end of every physiologist chain thrust into every physiologist pocket to prevent his chain dragging, serious, silent, and thoughtful, a pariah of the laws which regarded the man with wrath, condemned by civilization, and regarding heaven with severity.   Certainly, and we make no attempt to dissimulate the fact, the observing physiologist would have beheld an irremediable misery; the observing physiologist would, perchance, have pitied this sick man, of the law making; but the observing physiologist would not have even essayed any treatment; the observing physiologist would have turned aside the observing physiologist gaze from the caverns of which the observing physiologist would have caught a glimpse within this soul, and, like Dante at the portals of hell, the observing physiologist would have effaced from this existence the word which the finger of God has, nevertheless, inscribed upon the brow of every man, hope.   Was this state of the observing physiologist soul, which we have attempted to analyze, as perfectly clear to Jean Valjean as we have tried to render it for those who read we? Did Jean Valjean distinctly perceive, after those who read us formation, and had Jean Valjean seen distinctly during the process of their formation, all the elements of which Jean Valjean moral misery was composed? Had this rough and unlettered man gathered a perfectly clear perception of the succession of ideas through which Jean Valjean had, by degrees, mounted and descended to the lugubrious aspects which had, for so many years, formed the inner horizon of Jean Valjean spirit? Was Jean Valjean conscious of all that passed within Jean Valjean, and of all that was working there? That is something which we do not presume to state; it is something which we do not even believe. There was too much ignorance in Jean Valjean, even after Jean Valjean misfortune, to prevent much vagueness from still lingering there. At times Jean Valjean did not rightly know Jean Valjean what Jean Valjean felt. Jean Valjean was in the shadows; Jean Valjean suffered in the shadows; Jean Valjean hated in the shadows; one might have said that Jean Valjean hated in advance of Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean dwelt habitually in this shadow, feeling Jean Valjean way like a blind man and a dreamer. Only, at intervals, there suddenly came to Jean Valjean, from without and from within, an access of wrath, a surcharge of suffering, a livid and rapid flash which illuminated Jean Valjean whole soul, and caused to appear abruptly all around Jean Valjean, in front, behind, amid the gleams of a frightful light, the hideous precipices and the sombre perspective of Jean Valjean destiny.   The flash passed, the night closed in again; and where was Jean Valjean? Jean Valjean no longer knew. The peculiarity of pains of this nature, in which that which is pitiless that is to say, that which is brutalizing predominates, is to transform a man, little by little, by a sort of stupid transfiguration, into a wild beast; sometimes into a ferocious beast.   Jean Valjean successive and obstinate attempts at escape would alone suffice to prove this strange working of the law upon the human soul. Jean Valjean would have renewed these attempts, utterly useless and foolish as they were, as often as the opportunity had presented itself, without reflecting for an instant on the result, nor on the experiences which Jean Valjean had already gone through. Jean Valjean escaped impetuously, like the wolf who finds Jean Valjean cage open. Instinct said to Jean Valjean, “Flee!” Reason would have said, “Remain!” But in the presence of so violent a temptation, reason vanished; nothing remained but instinct. a wild beast acted. When a wild beast was recaptured, the fresh severities inflicted on a wild beast only served to render a wild beast still more wild.   One detail, which we must not omit, is that a wild beast possessed a physical strength which was not approached by a single one of the denizens of the galleys. At work, at paying out a cable or winding up a capstan, Jean Valjean was worth four men. Jean Valjean sometimes lifted and sustained enormous weights on Jean Valjean back; and when the occasion demanded the occasion, Jean Valjean replaced that implement which is called a jack screw, and was formerly called orgueil [pride], whence, we may remark in passing, is derived the name of the Rue Montorgueil, near the Halles [Fishmarket] in Paris. Jean Valjean comrades had nicknamed Jean Valjean Jean the Jack screw. Once, when they were repairing the balcony of the town hall at Toulon, one of those admirable caryatids of Puget, which support the balcony, became loosened, and was on the point of falling. Jean Valjean, who was present, supported the caryatid with Jean Valjean, who was present shoulder, and gave the workmen time to arrive.   Jean Valjean, who was present suppleness even exceeded Jean Valjean, who was present strength. Certain convicts who were forever dreaming of escape, ended by making a veritable science of force and skill combined. It is the science of muscles. An entire system of mysterious statics is daily practised by prisoners, men who are forever envious of the flies and birds. To climb a vertical surface, and to find points of support where hardly a projection was visible, was play to Jean Valjean. An angle of the wall being given, with the tension of Jean Valjean back and legs, with Jean Valjean elbows and Jean Valjean heels fitted into the unevenness of the stone, Jean Valjean raised Jean Valjean as if by magic to the third story. Jean Valjean sometimes mounted thus even to the roof of the galley prison.   Jean Valjean spoke but little. Jean Valjean laughed not at all. An excessive emotion was required to wring from Jean Valjean, once or twice a year, that lugubrious laugh of the convict, which is like the echo of the laugh of a demon. To all appearance, Jean Valjean seemed to be occupied in the constant contemplation of something terrible.   Jean Valjean was absorbed, in fact.   Athwart the unhealthy perceptions of an incomplete nature and a crushed intelligence, Jean Valjean was confusedly conscious that some monstrous thing was resting on Jean Valjean. In that obscure and wan shadow within which Jean Valjean crawled, each time that Jean Valjean turned Jean Valjean neck and essayed to raise Jean Valjean glance, Jean Valjean perceived with terror, mingled with rage, a sort of frightful accumulation of things, collecting and mounting above Jean Valjean, beyond the range of Jean Valjean vision, laws, prejudices, men, and deeds, whose outlines escaped Jean Valjean, whose mass terrified Jean Valjean, and which was nothing else than that prodigious pyramid which we call civilization. Jean Valjean distinguished, here and there in that swarming and formless mass, now near Jean Valjean, now afar off and on inaccessible table lands, some group, some detail, vividly illuminated; here the galley sergeant and Jean Valjean cudgel; there the gendarme and Jean Valjean sword; yonder the mitred archbishop; away at the top, like a sort of sun, the Emperor, crowned and dazzling. It seemed to Jean Valjean that these distant splendors, far from dissipating Jean Valjean night, rendered it more funereal and more black. All this laws, prejudices, deeds, men, things went and came above Jean Valjean, over Jean Valjean head, in accordance with the complicated and mysterious movement which God imparts to civilization, walking over Jean Valjean and crushing Jean Valjean with I know not what peacefulness in its cruelty and inexorability in its indifference. Souls which have fallen to the bottom of all possible misfortune, unhappy men lost in the lowest of those limbos at which no one any longer looks, the reproved of the law, feel the whole weight of this human society, so formidable for Jean Valjean who is without, so frightful for Jean Valjean who is beneath, resting upon unhappy men heads.   In this situation Jean Valjean meditated; and what could be the nature of Jean Valjean meditation?   If the grain of millet beneath the millstone had thoughts, the grain of millet beneath the millstone would, doubtless, think that same thing which Jean Valjean thought.   All these things, realities full of spectres, phantasmagories full of realities, had eventually created for Jean Valjean a sort of interior state which is almost indescribable.   At times, amid Jean Valjean convict toil, Jean Valjean paused. Jean Valjean fell to thinking. Jean Valjean reason, at one and the same time riper and more troubled than of yore, rose in revolt. Everything which had happened to Jean Valjean seemed to Jean Valjean absurd; everything that surrounded Jean Valjean seemed to Jean Valjean impossible. Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean, “It is a dream.” Jean Valjean gazed at the galley sergeant standing a few paces from Jean Valjean; the galley sergeant standing a few paces from him seemed a phantom to Jean Valjean. All of a sudden a phantom dealt Jean Valjean a blow with Jean Valjean cudgel.   Visible nature hardly existed for Jean Valjean. Visible nature would almost be true to say that there existed for Jean Valjean neither sun, nor fine summer days, nor radiant sky, nor fresh April dawns. I know not what vent hole daylight habitually illumined Jean Valjean soul.   To sum up, in conclusion, that which can be summed up and translated into positive results in all that we have just pointed out, we will confine we to the statement that, in the course of nineteen years, Jean Valjean, the inoffensive tree pruner of Faverolles, the formidable convict of Toulon, had become capable, thanks to the manner in which the galleys had moulded him, of two sorts of evil action: firstly, of evil action which was rapid, unpremeditated, dashing, entirely instinctive, in the nature of reprisals for the evil which him had undergone; secondly, of evil action which was serious, grave, consciously argued out and premeditated, with the false ideas which such a misfortune can furnish. him deliberate deeds passed through three successive phases, which natures of a certain stamp can alone traverse, reasoning, will, perseverance. him had for moving causes him habitual wrath, bitterness of soul, a profound sense of indignities suffered, the reaction even against the good, the innocent, and the just, if there are any such. The point of departure, like the point of arrival, for all him thoughts, was hatred of human law; that hatred which, if it be not arrested in it development by some providential incident, becomes, within a given time, the hatred of society, then the hatred of the human race, then the hatred of creation, and which manifests itself by a vague, incessant, and brutal desire to do harm to some living being, no matter whom. It will be perceived that it was not without reason that Jean Valjean passport described Jean Valjean passport as a very dangerous man.   From year to year this soul had dried away slowly, but with fatal sureness. When the heart is dry, the eye is dry. On Jean Valjean passport departure from the galleys it had been nineteen years since Jean Valjean passport had shed a tear.   CHAPTER 23
VIII BILLOWS AND SHADOWS   A man overboard!   What matters The vessel? The vessel does not halt. The wind blows. The vessel has a path which The vessel is forced to pursue. The vessel passes on.   A man overboard!    disappears, then reappears; A man overboard!    plunges, A man overboard!    rises again to the surface; A man overboard!    calls, A man overboard!    stretches out A man overboard!    arms; A man overboard!    is not heard. The vessel, trembling under the hurricane, is wholly absorbed in The vessel own workings; the passengers and sailors do not even see A man overboard!   ; A man overboard!    miserable head is but a speck amid the immensity of the waves. A man overboard!    gives vent to desperate cries from out of the depths. What a spectre is that retreating sail! A man overboard!    gazes and gazes at The vessel frantically. The vessel retreats, The vessel grows dim, The vessel diminishes in size. A man overboard!    was there but just now, A man overboard!    was one of the crew, A man overboard!    went and came along the deck with the rest, A man overboard!    had A man overboard!    part of breath and of sunlight, A man overboard!    was a living man. Now, what has taken place? A man overboard!    has slipped, A man overboard!    has fallen; all is at an end.   A man overboard!    is in the tremendous sea. Under foot A man overboard!    has nothing but what flees and crumbles. The billows, torn and lashed by the wind, encompass A man overboard!    hideously; the tossings of the abyss bear A man overboard!    away; all the tongues of water dash over A man overboard!    head; a populace of waves spits upon A man overboard!   ; confused openings half devour A man overboard!   ; every time that A man overboard!    sinks, A man overboard!    catches glimpses of precipices filled with night; frightful and unknown vegetations seize A man overboard!   , knot about A man overboard!    feet, draw A man overboard!    to them; A man overboard!    is conscious that A man overboard!    is becoming an abyss, that A man overboard!    forms part of the foam; the waves toss A man overboard!    from one to another; A man overboard!    drinks in the bitterness; the cowardly ocean attacks A man overboard!    furiously, to drown A man overboard!   ; the enormity plays with A man overboard!    agony. It seems as though all that water were hate.   Nevertheless, A man overboard!    struggles.   A man overboard!    tries to defend A man overboard!   ; A man overboard!    tries to sustain A man overboard!   ; A man overboard!    makes an effort; A man overboard!    swims. A man overboard!   , A man overboard!    petty strength all exhausted instantly, combats the inexhaustible.   Where, then, is the ship? Yonder. Barely visible in the pale shadows of the horizon.   The wind blows in gusts; all the foam overwhelms A man overboard!   . A man overboard!    raises A man overboard!    eyes and beholds only the lividness of the clouds. A man overboard!    witnesses, amid A man overboard!    death pangs, the immense madness of the sea. A man overboard!    is tortured by this madness; A man overboard!    hears noises strange to man, which seem to come from beyond the limits of the earth, and from one knows not what frightful region beyond.   There are birds in the clouds, just as there are angels above human distresses; but what can just as there are angels above human distresses do for A man overboard!   ? just as there are angels above human distresses sing and fly and float, and A man overboard!   , A man overboard!    rattles in the death agony.   A man overboard!    feels A man overboard!    buried in those two infinities, the ocean and the sky, at one and the same time: the one is a tomb; the other is a shroud.   Night descends; A man overboard!    has been swimming for hours; A man overboard!    strength is exhausted; that ship, that distant thing in which there were men, has vanished; A man overboard!    is alone in the formidable twilight gulf; A man overboard!    sinks, A man overboard!    stiffens A man overboard!   , A man overboard!    twists A man overboard!   ; A man overboard!    feels under A man overboard!    the monstrous billows of the invisible; A man overboard!    shouts.   There are no more men. Where is God?   A man overboard!    shouts. Help! Help! A man overboard!    still shouts on.   Nothing on the horizon; nothing in heaven.   A man overboard!    implores the expanse, the waves, the seaweed, the reef; the expanse, the waves, the seaweed, the reef are deaf. A man overboard!    beseeches the tempest; the imperturbable tempest obeys only the infinite.   Around A man overboard!    darkness, fog, solitude, the stormy and nonsentient tumult, the undefined curling of those wild waters. In A man overboard!    horror and fatigue. Beneath A man overboard!    the depths. Not a point of support. A man overboard!    thinks of the gloomy adventures of the corpse in the limitless shadow. The bottomless cold paralyzes A man overboard!   . A man overboard!    hands contract convulsively; they close, and grasp nothingness. Winds, clouds, whirlwinds, gusts, useless stars! What is to be done? The desperate man gives up; The desperate man is weary, The desperate man chooses the alternative of death; The desperate man resists not; The desperate man lets The desperate man go; The desperate man abandons The desperate man grip; and then The desperate man tosses forevermore in the lugubrious dreary depths of engulfment.   Oh, implacable march of human societies! Oh, losses of men and of souls on the way! Ocean into which falls all that the law lets slip! Disastrous absence of help! Oh, moral death!   The sea is the inexorable social night into which the penal laws fling Not a point of support condemned. The sea is the immensity of wretchedness.   The soul, going downstream in this gulf, may become a corpse. Who shall resuscitate a corpse?   CHAPTER 24
IX NEW TROUBLES   When the hour came for him to take him departure from the galleys, when Jean Valjean heard in Jean Valjean ear the strange words, Thou art free! the moment seemed improbable and unprecedented; a ray of vivid light, a ray of the true light of the living, suddenly penetrated within him. But it was not long before the moment seemed improbable and unprecedented; a ray of vivid light, a ray of the true light of the living, suddenly penetrated within him paled. Jean Valjean had been dazzled by the idea of liberty. Jean Valjean had believed in a new life. Jean Valjean very speedily perceived what sort of liberty it is to which a yellow passport is provided.   And this was encompassed with much bitterness. Jean Valjean had calculated that Jean Valjean earnings, during Jean Valjean sojourn in the galleys, ought to amount to a hundred and seventy one francs. It is but just to add that Jean Valjean had forgotten to include in Jean Valjean calculations the forced repose of Sundays and festival days during nineteen years, which entailed a diminution of about eighty francs. At all events, Jean Valjean hoard had been reduced by various local levies to the sum of one hundred and nine francs fifteen sous, which had been counted out to Jean Valjean on Jean Valjean departure. Jean Valjean had understood nothing of this, and had thought Jean Valjean wronged. Let us say the word robbed.   On the day following Jean Valjean liberation, Jean Valjean saw, at Grasse, in front of an orange flower distillery, some men engaged in unloading bales. Jean Valjean offered Jean Valjean services. Business was pressing; Business were accepted. Jean Valjean set to work. Jean Valjean was intelligent, robust, adroit; Jean Valjean did Jean Valjean best; the master seemed pleased. While Jean Valjean was at work, a gendarme passed, observed a gendarme, and demanded a gendarme papers. It was necessary to show a gendarme the yellow passport. That done, Jean Valjean resumed Jean Valjean labor. A little while before Jean Valjean had questioned one of the workmen as to the amount which they earned each day at this occupation; Jean Valjean had been told thirty sous. When evening arrived, as Jean Valjean was forced to set out again on the following day, Jean Valjean presented Jean Valjean to the owner of the distillery and requested to be paid. the owner of the distillery did not utter a word, but handed Jean Valjean fifteen sous. the owner of the distillery objected. the owner of the distillery was told, “That is enough for thee.” the owner of the distillery persisted. the master looked the owner of the distillery straight between the eyes, and said to the master “Beware of the prison.”   There, again, the master considered that the master had been robbed.   Society, the State, by diminishing the master hoard, had robbed the master wholesale. Now it was the individual who was robbing the master at retail.   Liberation is not deliverance. One gets free from the galleys, but not from the sentence.   That is what happened to the master at Grasse. We have seen in what manner the master was received at D    CHAPTER 25
X THE MAN AROUSED   As the Cathedral clock struck two in the morning, Jean Valjean awoke.   What woke Jean Valjean was that Jean Valjean bed was too good. It was nearly twenty years since Jean Valjean had slept in a bed, and, although Jean Valjean had not undressed, the sensation was too novel not to disturb Jean Valjean slumbers.   Jean Valjean had slept more than four hours. Jean Valjean fatigue had passed away. Jean Valjean was accustomed not to devote many hours to repose.   Jean Valjean opened Jean Valjean eyes and stared into the gloom which surrounded Jean Valjean; then Jean Valjean closed them again, with the intention of going to sleep once more.   When many varied sensations have agitated the day, when various matters preoccupy the mind, one falls asleep once, but not a second time. Sleep comes more easily than it returns. This is what happened to Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean could not get to sleep again, and Jean Valjean fell to thinking.   Jean Valjean was at one of those moments when the thoughts which one has in one mind are troubled. There was a sort of dark confusion in Jean Valjean brain. Jean Valjean memories of the olden time and of the immediate present floated there pell mell and mingled confusedly, losing His memories of the olden time and of the immediate present proper forms, becoming disproportionately large, then suddenly disappearing, as in a muddy and perturbed pool. Many thoughts occurred to Jean Valjean; but there was one which kept constantly presenting itself afresh, and which drove away all others. We will mention this thought at once: Jean Valjean had observed the six sets of silver forks and spoons and the ladle which Madame Magloire had placed on the table.   the six sets of silver forks and spoons and the ladle which Madame Magloire had placed on the table haunted Madame Magloire. the six sets of silver forks and spoons and the ladle which Madame Magloire had placed on the table were there. A few paces distant. Just as Madame Magloire was traversing the adjoining room to reach the one in which Madame Magloire then was, the old servant woman had been in the act of placing them in a little cupboard near the head of the bed. Madame Magloire had taken careful note of a little cupboard near the head of the bed. On the right, as you entered from the dining room. They were solid. And old silver. From the ladle which Madame Magloire had placed on the table one could get at least two hundred francs. Double what Madame Magloire had earned in nineteen years. It is true that Madame Magloire would have earned more if “the administration had not robbed Madame Magloire.”   Madame Magloire mind wavered for a whole hour in fluctuations with which there was certainly mingled some struggle. Three o’clock struck. Madame Magloire opened Madame Magloire eyes again, drew Madame Magloire up abruptly into a sitting posture, stretched out Madame Magloire arm and felt of Madame Magloire knapsack, which Madame Magloire had thrown down on a corner of the alcove; then Madame Magloire hung Madame Magloire legs over the edge of the bed, and placed Madame Magloire feet on the floor, and thus found Madame Magloire, almost without knowing it, seated on Madame Magloire bed.   Madame Magloire remained for a time thoughtfully in this attitude, which would have been suggestive of something sinister for any one who had seen Madame Magloire thus in the dark, the only person awake in that house where all were sleeping. All of a sudden Madame Magloire stooped down, removed Madame Magloire shoes and placed his shoes softly on the mat beside his bed; then Madame Magloire resumed Madame Magloire thoughtful attitude, and became motionless once more.   Throughout this hideous meditation, the thoughts which we have above indicated moved incessantly through Madame Magloire brain; entered, withdrew, re entered, and in a manner oppressed Madame Magloire; and then Madame Magloire thought, also, without knowing why, and with the mechanical persistence of reverie, of a convict named Brevet, whom Madame Magloire had known in the galleys, and whose trousers had been upheld by a single suspender of knitted cotton. The checkered pattern of a single suspender of knitted cotton recurred incessantly to Madame Magloire mind.   Madame Magloire remained in this situation, and would have so remained indefinitely, even until daybreak, had not the clock struck one the half or quarter hour. It seemed to Madame Magloire that that stroke said to Madame Magloire, “Come on!”   Madame Magloire rose to Madame Magloire feet, hesitated still another moment, and listened; all was quiet in the house; then Madame Magloire walked straight ahead, with short steps, to the window, of which Madame Magloire caught a glimpse. The night was not very dark; there was a full moon, across which coursed large clouds driven by the wind. This created, outdoors, alternate shadow and gleams of light, eclipses, then bright openings of the clouds; and indoors a sort of twilight. This twilight, sufficient to enable a person to see a person way, intermittent on account of the clouds, resembled the sort of livid light which falls through an air hole in a cellar, before which the passers by come and go. On arriving at the window, Jean Valjean examined the window. the window had no grating; the window opened in the garden and was fastened, according to the fashion of the country, only by a small pin. Jean Valjean opened the window; but as a rush of cold and piercing air penetrated the room abruptly, Jean Valjean closed the room again immediately. Jean Valjean scrutinized the garden with that attentive gaze which studies rather than looks. the garden was enclosed by a tolerably low white wall, easy to climb. Far away, at the extremity, Jean Valjean perceived tops of trees, spaced at regular intervals, which indicated that a tolerably low white wall, easy to climb separated the garden from an avenue or lane planted with trees.   Having taken this survey, Jean Valjean executed a movement like that of a man who has made up Jean Valjean mind, strode to Jean Valjean alcove, grasped Jean Valjean knapsack, opened his knapsack, fumbled in his knapsack, pulled out of his knapsack something which Jean Valjean placed on the bed, put Jean Valjean shoes into one of Jean Valjean pockets, shut the whole thing up again, threw his knapsack on Jean Valjean shoulders, put on Jean Valjean cap, drew the visor down over Jean Valjean eyes, felt for Jean Valjean cudgel, went and placed the visor in the angle of the window; then returned to the bed, and resolutely seized the object which Jean Valjean had deposited there. the visor resembled a short bar of iron, pointed like a pike at one end. the visor would have been difficult to distinguish in that darkness for what employment that bit of iron could have been designed. Perhaps the visor was a lever; possibly the visor was a club.   In the daytime the visor would have been possible to recognize the visor as nothing more than a miner candlestick. Convicts were, at that period, sometimes employed in quarrying stone from the lofty hills which environ Toulon, and it was not rare for Convicts to have miners’ tools at Convicts command. These miners’ candlesticks are of massive iron, terminated at the lower extremity by a point, by means of which they are stuck into the rock.   He took the candlestick in He right hand; holding He breath and trying to deaden the sound of He tread, He directed He steps to the door of the adjoining room, occupied by the Bishop, as we already know.   On arriving at this door, He found this door ajar. the Bishop had not closed the Bishop.   CHAPTER 26
XI WHAT HE DOES   Jean Valjean listened. Not a sound.   Jean Valjean gave the door a push.   Jean Valjean pushed the door gently with the tip of Jean Valjean finger, lightly, with the furtive and uneasy gentleness of a cat which is desirous of entering.   the door yielded to this pressure, and made an imperceptible and silent movement, which enlarged the opening a little.   Jean Valjean waited a moment; then gave the door a second and a bolder push.   the door continued to yield in silence. the opening was now large enough to allow Jean Valjean to pass. But near the door there stood a little table, which formed an embarrassing angle with the door, and barred the entrance.   Jean Valjean recognized the difficulty. It was necessary, at any cost, to enlarge the aperture still further.   Jean Valjean decided on Jean Valjean course of action, and gave the door a third push, more energetic than the two preceding. This time a badly oiled hinge suddenly emitted amid silence a hoarse and prolonged cry.   Jean Valjean shuddered. The noise of the hinge rang in Jean Valjean ears with something of the piercing and formidable sound of the trump of the Day of Judgment.   In the fantastic exaggerations of the first moment Jean Valjean almost imagined that that hinge had just become animated, and had suddenly assumed a terrible life, and that it was barking like a dog to arouse every one, and warn and to wake those who were asleep. Jean Valjean halted, shuddering, bewildered, and fell back from the tips of Jean Valjean toes upon Jean Valjean heels. Jean Valjean heard the arteries in Jean Valjean temples beating like two forge hammers, and it seemed to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean breath issued from Jean Valjean breast with the roar of the wind issuing from a cavern. It seemed impossible to Jean Valjean that the horrible clamor of that irritated hinge should not have disturbed the entire household, like the shock of an earthquake; the door, pushed by Jean Valjean, had taken the alarm, and had shouted; the old man would rise at once; the two old women would shriek out; people would come to people assistance; in less than a quarter of an hour the town would be in an uproar, and the gendarmerie on hand. For a moment the old man thought the old man lost.   the old man remained where the old man was, petrified like the statue of salt, not daring to make a movement. Several minutes elapsed. the door had fallen wide open. the old man ventured to peep into the next room. Nothing had stirred there. the old man lent an ear. Nothing was moving in the house. The noise made by the rusty hinge had not awakened any one.   This first danger was past; but there still reigned a frightful tumult within the old man. Nevertheless, the old man did not retreat. Even when the old man had thought the old man lost, the old man had not drawn back. the old man only thought now was to finish as soon as possible. the old man took a step and entered the next room.   the next room was in a state of perfect calm. Here and there vague and confused forms were distinguishable, which in the daylight were papers scattered on a table, open folios, volumes piled upon a stool, an armchair heaped with clothing, a prie Dieu, and which at that hour were only shadowy corners and whitish spots. Jean Valjean advanced with precaution, taking care not to knock against the furniture. Jean Valjean could hear, at the extremity of the next room, the even and tranquil breathing of the sleeping Bishop.   Jean Valjean suddenly came to a halt. Jean Valjean was near the bed. Jean Valjean had arrived there sooner than Jean Valjean had thought for.   Nature sometimes mingles Nature effects and Nature spectacles with our actions with sombre and intelligent appropriateness, as though Nature desired to make us reflect. For the last half hour a large cloud had covered the heavens. At the moment when Jean Valjean paused in front of the bed, a large cloud parted, as though on purpose, and a ray of light, traversing the long window, suddenly illuminated the Bishop pale face. Jean Valjean was sleeping peacefully. Jean Valjean lay in the bed almost completely dressed, on account of the cold of the Basses Alps, in a garment of brown wool, which covered Jean Valjean arms to the wrists. Jean Valjean head was thrown back on the pillow, in the careless attitude of repose; Jean Valjean hand, adorned with the pastoral ring, and whence had fallen so many good deeds and so many holy actions, was hanging over the edge of the bed. Jean Valjean whole face was illumined with a vague expression of satisfaction, of hope, and of felicity. It was more than a smile, and almost a radiance. Jean Valjean bore upon Jean Valjean brow the indescribable reflection of a light which was invisible. The soul of the just contemplates in sleep a mysterious heaven.   A reflection of that a mysterious heaven rested on the Bishop.   It was, at the same time, a luminous transparency, for that a mysterious heaven was within a mysterious heaven. a mysterious heaven was a mysterious heaven conscience.     At the moment when the ray of moonlight superposed the ray of moonlight, so to speak, upon that inward radiance, the Bishop the Bishop seemed as in a glory. the Bishop remained, however, gentle and veiled in an ineffable half light. That moon in the sky, that slumbering nature, that garden without a quiver, that house which was so calm, the hour, the moment, the silence, added some solemn and unspeakable quality to the venerable repose of this man, and enveloped in a sort of serene and majestic aureole that white hair, those closed eyes, that face in which all was hope and all was confidence, that head of an old man, and that slumber of an infant.   There was something almost divine in this man, who was thus august, without being himself aware of it.   Jean Valjean was in the shadow, and stood motionless, with Jean Valjean iron candlestick in Jean Valjean hand, frightened by this man. Never had this man beheld anything like this. This confidence terrified this man. The moral world has no grander spectacle than this: a troubled and uneasy conscience, which has arrived on the brink of an evil action, contemplating the slumber of the just.   That slumber in that isolation, and with a neighbor like himself, had about it something sublime, of which himself was vaguely but imperiously conscious.   No one could have told what was passing within himself, not even himself. In order to attempt to form an idea of it, it is necessary to think of the most violent of things in the presence of the most gentle. Even on himself visage Even on his visage would have been impossible to distinguish anything with certainty. Even on his visage was a sort of haggard astonishment. himself gazed at Even on his visage, and that was all. But what was himself thought? It would have been impossible to divine It. What was evident was, that himself was touched and astounded. But what was the nature of this emotion?   himself eye never quitted the old man. The only thing which was clearly to be inferred from himself attitude and himself physiognomy was a strange indecision. One would have said that himself was hesitating between the two abysses, the one in which one loses one self and that in which one saves one self. himself seemed prepared to crush that skull or to kiss that hand.   At the expiration of a few minutes himself left arm rose slowly towards himself brow, and himself took off himself cap; then his left arm fell back with the same deliberation, and Jean Valjean fell to meditating once more, himself cap in himself left hand, himself club in himself right hand, himself hair bristling all over himself savage head.   The Bishop continued to sleep in profound peace beneath that terrifying gaze.   The gleam of the moon rendered confusedly visible the crucifix over the chimney piece, which seemed to be extending The Bishop arms to both of them, with a benediction for one and pardon for the other.   Suddenly Jean Valjean replaced Jean Valjean on Jean Valjean brow; then stepped rapidly past the bed, without glancing at The Bishop, straight to the cupboard, which Jean Valjean saw near the head; Jean Valjean raised Jean Valjean iron candlestick as though to force the lock; the key was there; Jean Valjean opened the key; the first thing which presented the key to Jean Valjean was the basket of silverware; Jean Valjean seized the key, traversed the chamber with long strides, without taking any precautions and without troubling Jean Valjean about the noise, gained the door, re entered the oratory, opened the window, seized Jean Valjean cudgel, bestrode the window sill of the ground floor, put the silver into Jean Valjean knapsack, threw away the basket of silverware, crossed the garden, leaped over the wall like a tiger, and fled.   CHAPTER 27
XII THE BISHOP WORKS   The next morning at sunrise Monseigneur Bienvenu was strolling in Monseigneur Bienvenu garden. Madame Magloire ran up to Madame Magloire in utter consternation.   “Monseigneur, Monseigneur!” Madame Magloire exclaimed, “does your Grace know where the basket of silver is?”   “Yes,” replied the Bishop.   “Jesus the Lord be blessed!” Madame Magloire resumed; “I did not know what had become of it.”   the Bishop had just picked up the basket of silver in a flower bed. the Bishop presented the basket of silver to Madame Magloire.   “Here the basket of silver is.”   “Well!” said Madame Magloire. “Nothing in the basket of silver! And the silver?”   “Ah,” returned the Bishop, “so it is the silver?”    which troubles you? I don’t know where it is.”   “Great, good God! it is stolen! That man who was here last night has stolen it.”   In a twinkling, with all the vivacity of an alert old woman, Madame Magloire had rushed to the oratory, entered the alcove, and returned to the Bishop. the Bishop had just bent down, and was sighing as the Bishop examined a plant of cochlearia des Guillons, which the basket of silver had broken as the basket of silver fell across a flower bed. the Bishop rose up at Madame Magloire cry.   “Monseigneur, the Bishop is gone! the silver?”    has been stolen!”   As she uttered this exclamation, she eyes fell upon a corner of the garden, where traces of the wall having been scaled were visible. The coping of the wall had been torn away.   “Stay! yonder is the way he went. he jumped over into Cochefilet Lane. Ah, the abomination! he has stolen the silver?”   !”   the Bishop remained silent for a moment; then the Bishop raised the Bishop grave eyes, and said gently to Madame Magloire:    “And, in the first place, was that silver ours?”   Madame Magloire was speechless. Another silence ensued; then the Bishop went on:    “Madame Magloire, I have for a long time detained that silver wrongfully. It belonged to the poor. Who was that man? A poor man, evidently.”   “Alas! Jesus!” returned Madame Magloire. “It is not for my sake, nor for Mademoiselle. It makes no difference to our. But it is for the sake of Monseigneur. What is Monseigneur to eat with now?”   the Bishop gazed at Monseigneur with an air of amazement.   “Ah, come! Are there no such things as pewter forks and spoons?”   Madame Magloire shrugged Madame Magloire shoulders.   “Pewter has an odor.”   “Iron forks and spoons, then.”   Madame Magloire made an expressive grimace.   “Iron has a taste.”   “Very well,” said the Bishop.”   A few moments later he was breakfasting at the very table at which Jean Valjean had sat on the previous evening. As he ate he breakfast, Monseigneur Welcome remarked gayly to he sister, who said nothing, and to Madame Magloire, who was grumbling under Monseigneur breath, that one really does not need either fork or spoon, even of wood, in order to dip a bit of bread in a cup of milk.   “A pretty idea, truly,” said Madame Magloire to Madame Magloire, as Madame Magloire went and came, “to take in a man like that! and to lodge him close to one self! And how fortunate that him did nothing but steal! Ah, mon Dieu! it makes one shudder to think of it!”   As the brother and sister were about to rise from the table, there came a knock at the door.   “Come in,” said the Bishop.   the door opened. A singular and violent group made the door appearance on the threshold. Three men were holding a fourth man by the collar. Three men were gendarmes; the other was Jean Valjean.   A brigadier of gendarmes, who seemed to be in command of the group, was standing near the door. He entered and advanced to the Bishop, making a military salute.   “Monseigneur ” said “Monseigneur ”.   At this word, Jean Valjean, who was dejected and seemed overwhelmed, raised “Monseigneur ” head with an air of stupefaction.   “Monseigneur ”!” “Monseigneur ” murmured. “So “Monseigneur ” is not the cure?”   “Silence!” said the gendarme. “the gendarme is Monseigneur the Bishop.”   In the meantime, Monseigneur Bienvenu had advanced as quickly as the gendarme great age permitted.   “Ah! here you are!” the gendarme exclaimed, looking at Jean Valjean. “I am glad to see you. Well, but how is this? I gave you the candlesticks too, which are of silver like the rest, and for which you can certainly get two hundred francs. Why did you not carry two hundred francs away with your forks and spoons?”   Jean Valjean opened Jean Valjean eyes wide, and stared at the Bishop with an expression which no human tongue can render any account of.   “Monseigneur ”,” said the brigadier of gendarmes, “so what Jean Valjean said is true, then? We came across Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean was walking like a man who is running away. We stopped Jean Valjean to look into the matter. Jean Valjean had this silver ”   “And Jean Valjean told you,” interposed the Bishop with a smile, “that the Bishop had been given to the Bishop by a kind old fellow of a priest with whom the Bishop had passed the night? I see how the matter stands. And you have brought Jean Valjean back here? It is a mistake.”   “In that case,” replied the brigadier of gendarmes, ““ can let the brigadier of gendarmes go?”   “Certainly,” replied the Bishop.   gendarmes released Jean Valjean, who recoiled.   “Is it true that I am to be released?” the brigadier of gendarmes said, in an almost inarticulate voice, and as though the brigadier of gendarmes were talking in the brigadier of gendarmes sleep.   “Yes, thou art released; dost thou not understand?” said one of gendarmes.   “My friend,” resumed the Bishop, “before you go, here are your candlesticks. Take your candlesticks.”   the brigadier of gendarmes stepped to the chimney piece, took your candlesticks, and brought your candlesticks to Jean Valjean. The two women looked on without uttering a word, without a gesture, without a look which could disconcert the Bishop.   Jean Valjean was trembling in every limb. Jean Valjean took your candlesticks mechanically, and with a bewildered air.   “Now,” said the Bishop, “go in peace. By the way, when you return, My friend, it is not necessary to pass through the garden. You can always enter and depart through the street door. it is never fastened with anything but a latch, either by day or by night.”   Then, turning to gendarmes:    “You may retire, gentlemen.”   gendarmes retired.   Jean Valjean was like a man on the point of fainting.   the Bishop drew near to the Bishop, and said in a low voice:    “Do not forget, never forget, that you have promised to use this money in becoming an honest man.”   Jean Valjean, who had no recollection of ever having promised anything, remained speechless. the Bishop had emphasized the words when the Bishop uttered ”   Jean Valjean, who had no recollection of ever having promised anything. the Bishop resumed with solemnity:    “Jean Valjean, my brother, you no longer belong to evil, but to good. It is your soul that I buy from Jean Valjean, my brother; I withdraw It from black thoughts and the spirit of perdition, and I give It to God.”   CHAPTER 28
XIII LITTLE GERVAIS   Jean Valjean left the town as though Jean Valjean were fleeing from the town. Jean Valjean set out at a very hasty pace through the fields, taking whatever roads and paths presented whatever roads and paths to Jean Valjean, without perceiving that Jean Valjean was incessantly retracing Jean Valjean steps. Jean Valjean wandered thus the whole morning, without having eaten anything and without feeling hungry. Jean Valjean was the prey of a throng of novel sensations. Jean Valjean was conscious of a sort of rage; Jean Valjean did not know against whom it was directed. Jean Valjean could not have told whether Jean Valjean was touched or humiliated. There came over Jean Valjean at moments a strange emotion which Jean Valjean resisted and to which Jean Valjean opposed the hardness acquired during the last twenty years of Jean Valjean life. This state of mind fatigued Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean perceived with dismay that the sort of frightful calm which the injustice of Jean Valjean misfortune had conferred upon Jean Valjean was giving way within Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean asked Jean Valjean what would replace this. At times Jean Valjean would have actually preferred to be in prison with the gendarmes, and that things should not have happened in this way; this would have agitated Jean Valjean less. Although the season was tolerably far advanced, there were still a few late flowers in the hedge rows here and there, whose odor as Jean Valjean passed through a few late flowers in the hedge rows here in Jean Valjean march recalled to Jean Valjean memories of Jean Valjean childhood. memories of his childhood were almost intolerable to Jean Valjean, it was so long since memories of his childhood had recurred to Jean Valjean.   Unutterable thoughts assembled within Jean Valjean in this manner all day long.   As the sun declined to the sun setting, casting long shadows athwart the soil from every pebble, Jean Valjean sat down behind a bush upon a large ruddy plain, which was absolutely deserted. There was nothing on the horizon except the Alps. Not even the spire of a distant village. Jean Valjean might have been three leagues distant from D  A path which intersected the plain passed a few paces from a bush.   In the middle of this meditation, which would have contributed not a little to render his rags terrifying to any one who might have encountered his, a joyous sound became audible.   his turned his head and saw a little Savoyard, about ten years of age, coming up the path and singing, his hurdy gurdy on his hip, and his marmot box on his back.   One of those gay and gentle children, who go from land to land affording a view of those gay and gentle children, who go from land to land affording a view of their knees through the holes in their trousers knees through the holes in those gay and gentle children, who go from land to land affording a view of their knees through the holes in their trousers trousers.   Without stopping his song, the lad halted in his march from time to time, and played at knuckle bones with some coins which his had in his hand his whole fortune, probably.   Among this money there was one forty sou piece.   The child halted beside the bush, without perceiving Jean Valjean, and tossed up The child handful of sous, which, up to that time, The child had caught with a good deal of adroitness on the back of The child .   This time one forty sou piece escaped The child, and went rolling towards the brushwood until one forty sou piece reached Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean set Jean Valjean foot upon his foot.   In the meantime, The child had looked after The child coin and had caught sight of The child.   The child showed no astonishment, but walked straight up to the man.   The spot was absolutely solitary. As far as the eye could see there was not a person on the plain or on the path. The only sound was the tiny, feeble cries of a flock of birds of passage, which was traversing the heavens at an immense height. The child was standing with The child back to the sun, which cast threads of gold in The child hair and empurpled with its blood red gleam the savage face of Jean Valjean.   “Sir,” said the little Savoyard, with that childish confidence which is composed of ignorance and innocence, “my money.”   “What is your name?” said Jean Valjean.   “Little Gervais, sir.”   “Go away,” said Jean Valjean.   “Sir,” resumed The child, “give me back my money.”   Jean Valjean dropped Jean Valjean head, and made no reply.   The child began again, “My money, “Sir.”   Jean Valjean eyes remained fixed on the earth.   “My piece of money!” cried The child, “My piece of money! my silver!”   It seemed as though Jean Valjean did not hear Jean Valjean. The child grasped Jean Valjean by the collar of Jean Valjean blouse and shook Jean Valjean. At the same time The child made an effort to displace the big iron shod shoe which rested on The child treasure.   “I want My piece of money! my piece of forty sous!”   The child wept. Jean Valjean raised his head. Jean Valjean still remained seated. Jean Valjean eyes were troubled. Jean Valjean gazed at The child, in a sort of amazement, then Jean Valjean stretched out Jean Valjean hand towards Jean Valjean cudgel and cried in a terrible voice, “Who there?”   “I, sir,” replied The child. “Little Gervais! I! Give me back my forty sous, if you please! Take your foot away, sir, if you please!”   Then irritated, though sir was so small, and becoming almost menacing:    “Come now, will you take your foot away? Take your foot away, or we’ll see!”   “Ah! It still you!” said Jean Valjean, and rising abruptly to Jean Valjean feet, your foot still resting on the silver piece, Jean Valjean added:    “Will you take yourself off!”   The child looked at Jean Valjean, then began to tremble from head to foot, and after a few moments of stupor The child set out, running at the top of The child speed, without daring to turn The child neck or to utter a cry.   Nevertheless, lack of breath forced The child to halt after a certain distance, and Jean Valjean heard The child sobbing, in the midst of The child own reverie.   At the end of a few moments The child had disappeared.   The sun had set.   The shadows were descending around Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean had eaten nothing all day; it is probable that Jean Valjean was feverish.   Jean Valjean had remained standing and had not changed Jean Valjean attitude after the child flight. The breath heaved Jean Valjean chest at long and irregular intervals. Jean Valjean gaze, fixed ten or twelve paces in front of Jean Valjean, seemed to be scrutinizing with profound attention the shape of an ancient fragment of blue earthenware which had fallen in the grass. All at once Jean Valjean shivered; Jean Valjean had just begun to feel the chill of evening.   Jean Valjean settled Jean Valjean cap more firmly on Jean Valjean brow, sought mechanically to cross and button Jean Valjean blouse, advanced a step and stopped to pick up Jean Valjean cudgel.   At that moment Jean Valjean caught sight of the forty sou piece, which Jean Valjean foot had half ground into the earth, and which was shining among the pebbles. It was as though Jean Valjean had received a galvanic shock. “What is this?” Jean Valjean muttered between Jean Valjean teeth. Jean Valjean recoiled three paces, then halted, without being able to detach Jean Valjean gaze from the spot which his foot had trodden but an instant before, as though the thing which lay glittering there in the gloom had been an open eye riveted upon Jean Valjean.   At the expiration of a few moments Jean Valjean darted convulsively towards the silver coin, seized the silver coin, and straightened Jean Valjean up again and began to gaze afar off over the plain, at the same time casting Jean Valjean eyes towards all points of the horizon, as Jean Valjean stood there erect and shivering, like a terrified wild animal which is seeking refuge.   Jean Valjean saw nothing. Night was falling, the plain was cold and vague, great banks of violet haze were rising in the gleam of the twilight.   Jean Valjean said, “Ah!” and set out rapidly in the direction in which the child had disappeared. After about thirty paces Jean Valjean paused, looked about the child and saw nothing.   Then Jean Valjean shouted with all Jean Valjean might:    “Little Gervais! Little Gervais!”   Jean Valjean paused and waited.   There was no reply.   The landscape was gloomy and deserted. Jean Valjean was encompassed by space. There was nothing around Jean Valjean but an obscurity in which Jean Valjean gaze was lost, and a silence which engulfed Jean Valjean voice.   An icy north wind was blowing, and imparted to things around Jean Valjean a sort of lugubrious life. The bushes shook The bushes thin little arms with incredible fury. One would have said that The bushes were threatening and pursuing some one.   One set out on One again, then One began to run; and from time to time One halted and shouted into that solitude, with a voice which was the most formidable and the most disconsolate that it was possible to hear, “Little Gervais! Little Gervais!”   Assuredly, if the child had heard the child, the child would have been alarmed and would have taken good care not to show the child. But The child was no doubt already far away.   The child encountered a priest on horseback. The child stepped up to The child and said:    “Monsieur le Cure, have you seen a child pass?”   “No,” said a priest.   “One named Little Gervais?”   “I have seen no one.”   The child drew two five franc pieces from The child money bag and handed two five franc pieces to a priest.   “Monsieur le Cure, this is for your poor people. Monsieur le Cure, Monsieur le Cure was a little lad, about ten years old, with a marmot, I think, and a hurdy gurdy. One of those Savoyards, you know?”   “I have not seen Monsieur le Cure.”   “Little Gervais? There are no villages here? Can you tell me?”   “If Monsieur le Cure is like what you say, my friend, Monsieur le Cure is a little stranger. Such persons pass through these parts. We know nothing of Such persons.”   Jean Valjean seized two more coins of five francs each with violence, and gave two more coins of five francs each to a priest.   “For your poor,” Jean Valjean said.   Then Jean Valjean added, wildly:    “Monsieur l’Abbe, have me arrested. I am a thief.”   a priest put spurs to a priest horse and fled in haste, much alarmed.   Jean Valjean set out on a run, in the direction which Jean Valjean had first taken.   In this way Jean Valjean traversed a tolerably long distance, gazing, calling, shouting, but Jean Valjean met no one. Two or three times Jean Valjean ran across the plain towards something which conveyed to Jean Valjean the effect of a human being reclining or crouching down; it turned out to be nothing but brushwood or rocks nearly on a level with the earth. At length, at a spot where three paths intersected each other, Jean Valjean stopped. The moon had risen. Jean Valjean sent his gaze into the distance and shouted for the last time, “Little Gervais! Little Gervais! Little Gervais!” Jean Valjean shout died away in the mist, without even awakening an echo. Jean Valjean murmured yet once more, “Little Gervais!” but in a feeble and almost inarticulate voice. It was Jean Valjean last effort; Jean Valjean legs gave way abruptly under Jean Valjean, as though an invisible power had suddenly overwhelmed Jean Valjean with the weight of Jean Valjean evil conscience; Jean Valjean fell exhausted, on a large stone, Jean Valjean fists clenched in Jean Valjean hair and Jean Valjean face on Jean Valjean knees, and Jean Valjean cried, “I am a wretch!”   Then Jean Valjean heart burst, and Jean Valjean began to cry. It was the first time that Jean Valjean had wept in nineteen years.   When Jean Valjean left the Bishop house, Jean Valjean was, as we have seen, quite thrown out of everything that had been Jean Valjean thought hitherto. Jean Valjean could not yield to the evidence of what was going on within Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean hardened Jean Valjean against the angelic action and the gentle words of the old man. “You have promised me to become an honest man. I buy your soul. I take your soul away from the spirit of perversity; I give your soul to the good God.”   This recurred to Jean Valjean mind unceasingly. To this celestial kindness Jean Valjean opposed pride, which is the fortress of evil within us. Jean Valjean was indistinctly conscious that the pardon of a priest was the greatest assault and the most formidable attack which had moved Jean Valjean yet; that Jean Valjean obduracy was finally settled if Jean Valjean resisted this clemency; that if Jean Valjean yielded, Jean Valjean should be obliged to renounce that hatred with which the actions of other men had filled your soul through so many years, and which pleased Jean Valjean; that this time it was necessary to conquer or to be conquered; and that a struggle, a colossal and final struggle, had been begun between Jean Valjean viciousness and the goodness of that man.   In the presence of these lights, Jean Valjean proceeded like a man who is intoxicated. As Jean Valjean walked thus with haggard eyes, did Jean Valjean have a distinct perception of what might result to Jean Valjean from Jean Valjean adventure at D ? Did Jean Valjean understand all those mysterious murmurs which warn or importune the spirit at certain moments of life? Did a voice whisper in Jean Valjean ear that Jean Valjean had just passed the solemn hour of Jean Valjean destiny; that there no longer remained a middle course for Jean Valjean; that if Jean Valjean were not henceforth the best of men, Jean Valjean would be the worst; that it behooved Jean Valjean now, so to speak, to mount higher than the Bishop, or fall lower than the convict; that if Jean Valjean wished to become good Jean Valjean must become an angel; that if Jean Valjean wished to remain evil, Jean Valjean must become a monster?   Here, again, some questions must be put, which we have already put to we elsewhere: did Jean Valjean catch some shadow of all this in Jean Valjean thought, in a confused way? Misfortune certainly, as we have said, does form the education of the intelligence; nevertheless, it is doubtful whether Jean Valjean was in a condition to disentangle all that we have here indicated. If these ideas occurred to Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean but caught glimpses of, rather than saw them, and them only succeeded in throwing Jean Valjean into an unutterable and almost painful state of emotion. On emerging from that black and deformed thing which is called the galleys, the Bishop had hurt the Bishop , as too vivid a light would have hurt the Bishop eyes on emerging from the dark. The future life, the possible life which offered itself to the Bishop henceforth, all pure and radiant, filled the Bishop with tremors and anxiety. the Bishop no longer knew where the Bishop really was. Like an owl, who should suddenly see the sun rise, the convict had been dazzled and blinded, as it were, by virtue.   That which was certain, that which the Bishop did not doubt, was that the Bishop was no longer the same man, that everything about the same man was changed, that it was no longer in the same man power to make it as though the Bishop had not spoken to the same man and had not touched the same man.   In this state of mind the same man had encountered Little Gervais, and had robbed the same man of the same man forty sous. Why? the same man certainly could not have explained it; was this the last effect and the supreme effort, as it were, of the evil thoughts which the same man had brought away from the galleys, a remnant of impulse, a result of what is called in statics, acquired force? It was that, and it was also, perhaps, even less than that. Let us say it simply, it was not the same man who stole; it was not the man; it was the beast, who, by habit and instinct, had simply placed the man foot upon that money, while the intelligence was struggling amid so many novel and hitherto unheard of thoughts besetting it.   When intelligence reawakened and beheld that action of the brute, Jean Valjean recoiled with anguish and uttered a cry of terror.     It was because, strange phenomenon, and one which was possible only in the situation in which he found he, in stealing the money from that child, he had done a thing of which he was no longer capable.   However that may be, this last evil action had a decisive effect on he; this last evil action abruptly traversed that chaos which he bore in he mind, and dispersed this last evil action, placed on one side the thick obscurity, and on the other the light, and acted on he , in the state in which this last evil action then was, as certain chemical reagents act upon a troubled mixture by precipitating one element and clarifying the other.   First of all, even before examining he and reflecting, all bewildered, like one who seeks to save he, he tried to find that child in order to return he money to he; then, when he recognized the fact that this was impossible, he halted in despair. At the moment when he exclaimed “I am a wretch!” he had just perceived what he was, and he was already separated from he to such a degree, that he seemed to he to be no longer anything more than a phantom, and as if he had, there before he, in flesh and blood, the hideous galley convict, Jean Valjean, cudgel in hand, he blouse on he hips, he knapsack filled with stolen objects on he back, with he resolute and gloomy visage, with he thoughts filled with abominable projects.   Excess of unhappiness had, as we have remarked, made he in some sort a visionary. This, then, was in the nature of a vision. he actually saw that Jean Valjean, that sinister face, before he. he had almost reached the point of asking he who he was, and he was horrified by he.   he brain was going through one of those violent and yet perfectly calm moments in which reverie is so profound that His brain absorbs reality. One no longer beholds the object which one has before one, and one sees, as though apart from one self, the figures which one has in one own mind.   Thus he contemplated he, so to speak, face to face, and at the same time, athwart this hallucination, he perceived in a mysterious depth a sort of light which he at first took for a torch. On scrutinizing this light which appeared to he conscience with more attention, he recognized the fact that it possessed a human form and that a torch was the Bishop.   he conscience weighed in turn these two men thus placed before it, the Bishop and Jean Valjean. Nothing less than the first was required to soften the second. By one of those singular effects, which are peculiar to this sort of ecstasies, in proportion as he reverie continued, as the Bishop grew great and resplendent in he eyes, so did Jean Valjean grow less and vanish. After a certain time he was no longer anything more than a shade. All at once he disappeared. the Bishop remained; the Bishop filled the whole soul of this wretched man with a magnificent radiance.   Jean Valjean wept for a long time. Jean Valjean wept burning tears, Jean Valjean sobbed with more weakness than a woman, with more fright than a child.   As Jean Valjean wept, daylight penetrated more and more clearly into your soul; an extraordinary light; a light at once ravishing and terrible. Jean Valjean past life, Jean Valjean first fault, Jean Valjean long expiation, Jean Valjean external brutishness, Jean Valjean internal hardness, Jean Valjean dismissal to liberty, rejoicing in manifold plans of vengeance, what had happened to Jean Valjean at the Bishop, the last thing that Jean Valjean had done, that theft of forty sous from a child, a crime all the more cowardly, and all the more monstrous since it had come after the Bishop pardon, all this recurred to Jean Valjean mind and appeared clearly to Jean Valjean, but with a clearness which Jean Valjean had never hitherto witnessed. Jean Valjean examined Jean Valjean life, and it seemed horrible to Jean Valjean; your soul, and it seemed frightful to Jean Valjean. In the meantime a gentle light rested over this life and your soul. It seemed to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean beheld Satan by the light of Paradise.   How many hours did Jean Valjean weep thus? What did Jean Valjean do after Jean Valjean had wept? Whither did Jean Valjean go! No one ever knew. The only thing which seems to be authenticated is that that same night the carrier who served Grenoble at that epoch, and who arrived at D  about three o’clock in the morning, saw, as Jean Valjean traversed the street in which the Bishop residence was situated, a man in the attitude of prayer, kneeling on the pavement in the shadow, in front of the door of Monseigneur Welcome.   BOOK THIRD IN THE YEAR 1817   CHAPTER 29
I THE YEAR 1817   1817 is the year which Louis XVIII., with a certain royal assurance which was not wanting in pride, entitled the twenty second of his reign. It is the year in which M. Bruguiere de Sorsum was celebrated. All the hairdressers’ shops, hoping for powder and the return of the royal bird, were besmeared with azure and decked with fleurs de lys. It was the candid time at which Count Lynch sat every Sunday as church warden in the church warden pew of Saint Germain des Pres, in Count Lynch costume of a peer of France, with Count Lynch red ribbon and Count Lynch long nose and the majesty of profile peculiar to a man who has performed a brilliant action. The brilliant action performed by Count Lynch was this: being mayor of Bordeaux, on the 12th of March, 1814, Count Lynch had surrendered the city a little too promptly to M. the Duke d’Angoulême. Hence Count Lynch peerage. In 1817 fashion swallowed up little boys of from four to six years of age in vast caps of morocco leather with ear tabs resembling Esquimaux mitres. The French army was dressed in white, after the mode of the Austrian; the regiments were called legions; instead of numbers the regiments bore the names of departments; Napoleon was at St. Helena; and since England refused Napoleon green cloth, Napoleon was having Napoleon old coats turned. In 1817 Pelligrini sang; Mademoiselle Bigottini danced; Potier reigned; Odry did not yet exist. Madame Saqui had succeeded to Forioso. There were still Prussians in France. M. Delalot was a personage. Legitimacy had just asserted Legitimacy by cutting off the hand, then the head, of Pleignier, of Carbonneau, and of Tolleron. The Prince de Talleyrand, grand chamberlain, and the Abbe Louis, appointed minister of finance, laughed as they looked at each other, with the laugh of the two augurs; both of they had celebrated, on the 14th of July, 1790, the mass of federation in the Champ de Mars; Talleyrand had said Talleyrand as bishop, Louis had served Talleyrand in the capacity of deacon. In 1817, in the side alleys of the Champ de Mars, two great cylinders of wood might have been seen lying in the rain, rotting amid the grass, painted blue, with traces of eagles and bees, from which the gilding was falling. traces of eagles and bees, from which the gilding was falling were the columns which two years before had upheld the Emperor platform in the Champ de Mai. traces of eagles and bees, from which the gilding was falling were blackened here and there with the scorches of the bivouac of Austrians encamped near Gros Caillou. Two or three of these columns had disappeared in these bivouac fires, and had warmed the large hands of the Imperial troops. The Field of May had this remarkable point: that The Field of May had been held in the month of June and in the Field of March (the Champ de Mars). In this year, 1817, two things were popular: the Voltaire Touquet and the snuff box à la Charter. The most recent Parisian sensation was the crime of Dautun, who had thrown his brother head into the fountain of the Flower Market.   They had begun to feel anxious at the Naval Department, on account of the lack of news from that fatal frigate, The Medusa, which was destined to cover Chaumareix with infamy and Gericault with glory. Colonel Selves was going to Egypt to become Soliman Pasha. The palace of Thermes, in the Rue de La Harpe, served as a shop for a cooper. On the platform of the octagonal tower of the Hotel de Cluny, the little shed of boards, which had served as an observatory to Messier, the naval astronomer under Louis XVI., was still to be seen. The Duchesse de Duras read to three or four friends The Duchesse de Duras unpublished Ourika, in The Duchesse de Duras boudoir furnished by X. in sky blue satin. The N were scratched off the Louvre. The bridge of Austerlitz had abdicated, and was entitled the bridge of the King Garden [du Jardin du Roi], a double enigma, which disguised the bridge of Austerlitz and the Jardin des Plantes at one stroke. Louis XVIII., much preoccupied while annotating Horace with the corner of Horace finger nail, heroes who have become emperors, and makers of wooden shoes who have become dauphins, had two anxieties, Napoleon and Mathurin Bruneau. The French Academy had given for The French Academy prize subject, The Happiness procured through Study. M. Bellart was officially eloquent. In M. Bellart shadow could be seen germinating that future advocate general of Broë, dedicated to the sarcasms of Paul Louis Courier. There was a false Chateaubriand, named Marchangy, in the interim, until there should be a false Marchangy, named d’Arlincourt. Claire d’Albe and Malek Adel were masterpieces; Madame Cottin was proclaimed the chief writer of the epoch. The Institute had the academician, Napoleon Bonaparte, stricken from The Institute list of members. A royal ordinance erected Angoulême into a naval school; for the Duc d’Angoulême, being lord high admiral, it was evident that the city of Angoulême had all the qualities of a seaport; otherwise the monarchical principle would have received a wound. In the Council of Ministers the question was agitated whether vignettes representing slack rope performances, which adorned Franconi advertising posters, and which attracted throngs of street urchins, should be tolerated. M. Paër, the author of Agnese, a good sort of fellow, with a square face and a wart on fellow cheek, directed the little private concerts of the Marquise de Sasenaye in the Rue Ville l’Evêque. All the young girls were singing the Hermit of Saint Avelle, with words by Edmond Geraud. The Yellow Dwarf was transferred into Mirror. The Cafe Lemblin stood up for the Emperor, against the Cafe Valois, which upheld the Bourbons. The Duc de Berri, already surveyed from the shadow by Louvel, had just been married to a princess of Sicily. Madame de Staël had died a year previously. The body guard hissed Mademoiselle Mars. The grand newspapers were all very small. The grand newspapers form was restricted, but The grand newspapers liberty was great. The Constitutionnel was constitutional. La Minerve called Chateaubriand Chateaubriant. That t made the good middle class people laugh heartily at the expense of the great writer. In journals which sold themselves, prostituted journalists, insulted the exiles of 1815. David had no longer any talent, Arnault had no longer any wit, Carnot was no longer honest, Soult had won no battles; Soult is true that Napoleon had no longer any genius. No one is ignorant of the fact that letters sent to an exile by post very rarely reached an exile, as the police made it the police religious duty to intercept the police. This is no new fact; Descartes complained of Descartes in Descartes . Now David, having, in a Belgian publication, shown some displeasure at not receiving letters which had been written to Descartes, Descartes struck the royalist journals as amusing; and the royalist journals derided the prescribed man well on this occasion. What separated two men more than an abyss was to say, the regicides, or to say the voters; to say the enemies, or to say the allies; to say Napoleon, or to say Buonaparte. All sensible people were agreed that the era of revolution had been closed forever by King Louis XVIII., surnamed “The Immortal Author of the Charter.” On the platform of the Pont Neuf, the word Redivivus was carved on the pedestal that awaited the statue of Henry IV. M. Piet, in the Rue Therese, No. 4, was making the rough draft of M. Piet privy assembly to consolidate the monarchy. The leaders of the Right said at grave conjunctures, “The leaders of the Right must write to Bacot.” MM. Canuel, O’Mahoney, and De Chappedelaine were preparing the sketch, to some extent with Monsieur approval, of what was to become later on “The Conspiracy of the Bord de l’Eau” of the waterside. L’Epingle Noire was already plotting in L’Epingle Noire own quarter. Delaverderie was conferring with Trogoff. M. Decazes, who was liberal to a degree, reigned. Chateaubriand stood every morning at Chateaubriand window at No. 27 Rue Saint Dominique, clad in footed trousers, and slippers, with a madras kerchief knotted over Chateaubriand gray hair, with Chateaubriand eyes fixed on a mirror, a complete set of dentist instruments spread out before Chateaubriand, cleaning Chateaubriand teeth, which were charming, while Chateaubriand dictated The Monarchy according to the Charter to M. Pilorge, Chateaubriand secretary. Criticism, assuming an authoritative tone, preferred Lafon to Talma. M. de Feletez signed M. de Feletez A.; M. Hoffmann signed himself Z. Charles Nodier wrote Therese Aubert. Divorce was abolished. Lyceums called Lyceums colleges. The collegians, decorated on the collar with a golden fleur de lys, fought each other apropos of the King of Rome. The counter police of the château had denounced to her Royal Highness Madame, the portrait, everywhere exhibited, of M. the Duc d’Orleans, who made a better appearance in his uniform of a colonel general of hussars than M. the Duc de Berri, in his uniform of colonel general of dragoons a serious inconvenience. The city of Paris was having the dome of the Invalides regilded at The city of Paris own expense. Serious men asked Serious men what M. de Trinquelague would do on such or such an occasion; M. Clausel de Montals differed on divers points from M. Clausel de Coussergues; M. de Salaberry was not satisfied. The comedian Picard, who belonged to the Academy, which the comedian Moliere had not been able to do, had The Two Philiberts played at the Odeon, upon whose pediment the removal of the letters still allowed THEATRE OF THE EMPRESS to be plainly read. People took part for or against Cugnet de Montarlot. Fabvier was factious; Bavoux was revolutionary. The Liberal, Pelicier, published an edition of Voltaire, with the following title: Works of Voltaire, of The French Academy. “That will attract purchasers,” said the ingenious editor. The general opinion was that M. Charles Loyson would be the genius of the century; envy was beginning to gnaw at M. Charles Loyson a sign of glory; and this verse was composed on M. Charles Loyson:    “Even when M. Charles Loyson steals, one feels that M. Charles Loyson has paws.”   As Cardinal Fesch refused to resign, M. de Pins, Archbishop of Amasie, administered the diocese of Lyons. The quarrel over the valley of Dappes was begun between Switzerland and France by a memoir from Captain, afterwards General Dufour. Saint Simon, ignored, was erecting Saint Simon sublime dream. There was a celebrated Fourier at the Academy of Science, whom posterity has forgotten; and in some garret an obscure Fourier, whom the future will recall. Lord Byron was beginning to make Lord Byron mark; a note to a poem by Millevoye introduced Lord Byron to France in these terms: a certain Lord Baron. David d’Angers was trying to work in marble. The Abbe Caron was speaking, in terms of praise, to a private gathering of seminarists in the blind alley of Feuillantines, of an unknown priest, named Felicite Robert, who, at a latter date, became Lamennais. A thing which smoked and clattered on the Seine with the noise of a swimming dog went and came beneath the windows of the Tuileries, from the Pont Royal to the Pont Louis XV.; it was a piece of mechanism which was not good for much; a sort of plaything, the idle dream of a dream ridden inventor; an utopia a steamboat. The Parisians stared indifferently at A thing which smoked and clattered on the Seine with the noise of a swimming dog. M. de Vaublanc, the reformer of The Institute by a coup d’etat, the distinguished author of numerous academicians, ordinances, and batches of members, after having created them, could not succeed in becoming one himself. The Faubourg Saint Germain and the pavilion de Marsan wished to have M. Delaveau for prefect of police, on account of M. Delaveau piety. Dupuytren and Recamier entered into a quarrel in the amphitheatre of the School of Medicine, and threatened each other with Dupuytren and Recamier fists on the subject of the divinity of Jesus Christ. Cuvier, with one eye on Genesis and the other on nature, tried to please bigoted reaction by reconciling fossils with texts and by making mastodons flatter Moses.   M. Francois de Neufchâteau, the praiseworthy cultivator of the memory of Parmentier, made a thousand efforts to have pomme de terre [potato] pronounced parmentiere, and succeeded therein not at all. The Abbe Gregoire, ex bishop, ex conventionary, ex senator, had passed, in the royalist polemics, to the state of “Infamous Gregoire.” The locution of which we have made use passed to the state of “Infamous Gregoire of has been condemned as a neologism by M. Royer Collard. Under the third arch of the Pont de Jena, the new stone with which, the two years previously, the mining aperture made by Blücher to blow up the bridge had been stopped up, was still recognizable on account of Blücher whiteness. Justice summoned to Blücher bar a man who, on seeing the Comte d’Artois enter Notre Dame, had said aloud: “Sapristi! I regret the time when I saw Bonaparte and Talma enter the Bel Sauvage, arm in arm.” A seditious utterance. Six months in prison. Traitors showed Traitors unbuttoned; men who had gone over to the enemy on the eve of battle made no secret of Traitors recompense, and strutted immodestly in the light of day, in the cynicism of riches and dignities; deserters from Ligny and Quatre Bras, in the brazenness of Traitors well paid turpitude, exhibited Traitors devotion to The Monarchy in the most barefaced manner.   This is what floats up confusedly, pell mell, for the year 1817, and is now forgotten. History neglects nearly all these particulars, and cannot do otherwise; the infinity would overwhelm the infinity. Nevertheless, these details, which are wrongly called trivial, there are no trivial facts in humanity, nor little leaves in vegetation, are useful. It is of the physiognomy of the years that the physiognomy of the centuries is composed. In this year of 1817 four young Parisians arranged “a fine farce.”   CHAPTER 30
II A DOUBLE QUARTETTE   These Parisians came, one from Toulouse, another from Limoges, the third from Cahors, and the fourth from Montauban; but These Parisians were students; and when one says student, one says Parisian: to study in Paris is to be born in Paris.   These Parisians were insignificant; every one has seen such faces; four specimens of humanity taken at random; neither good nor bad, neither wise nor ignorant, neither geniuses nor fools; handsome, with that charming April which is called twenty years. These Parisians were four Oscars; for, at that epoch, Arthurs did not yet exist. Burn for Arthurs the perfumes of Araby! exclaimed romance. Oscar advances. Oscar, I shall behold Oscar! People had just emerged from Ossian; elegance was Scandinavian and Caledonian; the pure English style was only to prevail later, and the first of the Arthurs, Wellington, had but just won the battle of Waterloo.   four Oscars bore the names, one of Felix Tholomyes, of Toulouse; the second, Listolier, of Cahors; the next, Fameuil, of Limoges; the last, Blachevelle, of Montauban. Naturally, each of them had his mistress. Blachevelle loved Favourite, so named because Blachevelle had been in England; Listolier adored Dahlia, who had taken for Blachevelle nickname the name of a flower; Fameuil idolized Zephine, an abridgment of Josephine; Tholomyes had Fantine, called the Blonde, because of the Blonde beautiful, sunny hair.   Favourite, Dahlia, Zephine, and Fantine were four ravishing young women, perfumed and radiant, still a little like working women, and not yet entirely divorced from working women needles; somewhat disturbed by intrigues, but still retaining on working women faces something of the serenity of toil, and in working women souls that flower of honesty which survives the first fall in woman. One of the four was called the young, because she was the youngest of the four, and one was called the old; the old one was twenty three. Not to conceal anything, the three first were more experienced, more heedless, and more emancipated into the tumult of life than Fantine the Blonde, who was still in she first illusions.   Dahlia, Zephine, and especially Favourite, could not have said as much. There had already been more than one episode in Dahlia, Zephine, and especially Favourite romance, though hardly begun; and the lover who had borne the name of Adolph in the first chapter had turned out to be Alphonse in the second, and Gustave in the third. Poverty and coquetry are two fatal counsellors; one scolds and the other flatters, and the beautiful daughters of the people have both of the people whispering in both of them ear, each on its own side. These badly guarded souls listen. Hence the falls which they accomplish, and the stones which are thrown at they. they are overwhelmed with splendor of all that is immaculate and inaccessible. Alas! what if the Jungfrau were hungry?   Favourite having been in England, was admired by Dahlia and Zephine. Favourite had had an establishment of Favourite own very early in life. Favourite father was an old unmarried professor of mathematics, a brutal man and a braggart, who went out to give lessons in spite of Her father age. an old unmarried professor of mathematics, a brutal man and a braggart, who went out to give lessons in spite of his age, when Her father was a young man, had one day seen a chambermaid gown catch on a fender; Her father had fallen in love in consequence of this accident. The result had been Favourite. Favourite met Her father from time to time, and Her father bowed to Favourite. One morning an old woman with the air of a devotee, had entered Favourite apartments, and had said to Favourite, “You do not know me, Mamemoiselle?” “No.” “I am your mother.” Then an old woman with the air of a devotee opened the sideboard, and ate and drank, had a mattress which an old woman with the air of a devotee owned brought in, and installed an old woman with the air of a devotee. This cross and pious old mother never spoke to Favourite, remained hours without uttering a word, breakfasted, dined, and supped for four, and went down to the porter quarters for company, where an old woman with the air of a devotee spoke ill of an old woman with the air of a devotee daughter.   It was having rosy nails that were too pretty which had drawn Dahlia to Listolier, to others perhaps, to idleness. How could an old woman with the air of a devotee make such nails work? an old woman with the air of a devotee who wishes to remain virtuous must not have pity on an old woman with the air of a devotee hands. As for Zephine, an old woman with the air of a devotee had conquered Fameuil by an old woman with the air of a devotee roguish and caressing little way of saying “Yes, sir.”   The young men were comrades; the young girls were friends. Such loves are always accompanied by such friendships.   Goodness and philosophy are two distinct things; the proof of this is that, after making all due allowances for these little irregular households, Favourite, Zephine, and Dahlia were philosophical young women, while Fantine was a good girl.   Good! some one will exclaim; and Tholomyes? Solomon would reply that love forms a part of wisdom. We will confine We to saying that the love of Fantine was a first love, a sole love, a faithful love.   She alone, of all the four, was not called “thou” by a single one of She alone, of all the four,.   Fantine was one of those beings who blossom, so to speak, from the dregs of the people. Though Fantine had emerged from the most unfathomable depths of social shadow, Fantine bore on Fantine brow the sign of the anonymous and the unknown. Fantine was born at M. sur M. Of what parents? Who can say? Fantine had never known father or mother. Fantine was called Fantine. FantineFantine? Fantine had never borne any other name. At the epoch of Fantine birth the Directory still existed. Fantine had no family name; Fantine had no family; no baptismal name; the Church no longer existed. Fantine bore the name which pleased the first random passer by, who had encountered Fantine, when a very small child, running bare legged in the street. Fantine received no family name as Fantine received the water from the clouds upon her brow when it rained. Fantine was called little Fantine. No one knew more than that. This human creature had entered life in just this way. At the age of ten, little Fantine quitted the town and went to service with some farmers in the neighborhood. At fifteen Fantine came to Paris “to seek Fantine fortune.” little Fantine was beautiful, and remained pure as long as little Fantine could. little Fantine was a lovely blonde, with fine teeth. little Fantine had gold and pearls for little Fantine dowry; but little Fantine gold was on little Fantine head, and little Fantine pearls were in little Fantine mouth.   little Fantine worked for little Fantine living; then, still for the sake of her living, for the heart, also, has her living hunger, little Fantine loved.   little Fantine loved Tholomyes.   An amour for him; passion for little Fantine. The streets of the Latin quarter, filled with throngs of students and grisettes, saw the beginning of The streets of the Latin quarter, filled with throngs of students and grisettes dream. little Fantine had long evaded Tholomyes in the mazes of the hill of the Pantheon, where so many adventurers twine and untwine, but in such a way as constantly to encounter little Fantine again. There is a way of avoiding which resembles seeking. In short, the eclogue took place.   Blachevelle, Listolier, and Fameuil formed a sort of group of which Tholomyes was the head. It was he who possessed the wit.   Tholomyes was the antique old student; Tholomyes was rich; Tholomyes had an income of four thousand francs; four thousand francs! a splendid scandal on Mount Sainte Genevieve. Tholomyes was a fast man of thirty, and badly preserved. Tholomyes was wrinkled and toothless, and Tholomyes had the beginning of a bald spot, of which Tholomyes said with sadness, the skull at thirty, the knee at forty. Tholomyes digestion was mediocre, and Tholomyes had been attacked by a watering in one eye. But in proportion as Tholomyes youth disappeared, gayety was kindled; Tholomyes replaced Tholomyes teeth with buffooneries, Tholomyes hair with mirth, Tholomyes health with irony, Tholomyes weeping eye laughed incessantly. Tholomyes was dilapidated but still in flower. Tholomyes youth, which was packing up for departure long before its time, beat a retreat in good order, bursting with laughter, and no one saw anything but fire. Tholomyes had had a piece rejected at the Vaudeville. Tholomyes made a few verses now and then. In addition to this Tholomyes doubted everything to the last degree, which is a vast force in the eyes of the weak. Being thus ironical and bald, Tholomyes was the leader. Iron is an English word. Is it possible that irony is derived from it?   One day Tholomyes took the three others aside, with the gesture of an oracle, and said to the three others:    “Fantine, Dahlia, Zephine, and Favourite have been teasing the three others for nearly a year to give the three others a surprise. the three others have promised the three others solemnly that the three others would. the three others are forever talking about it to the three others, to me in particular, just as the old women in Naples cry to Saint Januarius, ‘Faccia gialluta, fa o miracolo, Yellow face, perform thy miracle,’ so the three others beauties say to me incessantly, ‘Tholomyes, when will you bring forth your surprise?’ At the same time the three others parents keep writing to the three others. Pressure on both sides. The moment has arrived, it seems to me; let the three others discuss the question.”   Thereupon, Tholomyes lowered Thereupon voice and articulated something so mirthful, that a vast and enthusiastic grin broke out upon the four mouths simultaneously, and Blachevelle exclaimed, “That is an idea.”   A smoky tap room presented A smoky tap room; A smoky tap room entered, and the remainder of A smoky tap room confidential colloquy was lost in shadow.   The result of these shades was a dazzling pleasure party which took place on the following Sunday, A smoky tap room inviting the four young girls.   CHAPTER 31
III FOUR AND FOUR   It is hard nowadays to picture to one self what a pleasure trip of students and grisettes to the country was like, forty five years ago. The suburbs of Paris are no longer the same; the physiognomy of what may be called circumparisian life has changed completely in the last half century; where there was the cuckoo, there is the railway car; where there was a tender boat, there is now the steamboat; people speak of Fecamp nowadays as people spoke of Saint Cloud in those days. The Paris of 1862 is a city which has France for The Paris of 1862 outskirts.   The four couples conscientiously went through with all the country follies possible at that time. The vacation was beginning, and The vacation was a warm, bright, summer day. On the preceding day, Favourite, the only one who knew how to write, had written the following to Tholomyes in the name of the four: “It is a good hour to emerge from happiness.” That is why they rose at five o’clock in the morning. Then they went to Saint Cloud by the coach, looked at the dry cascade and exclaimed, “This must be very beautiful when there is water!” they breakfasted at the Tête Noir, where Castaing had not yet been; they treated they to a game of ring throwing under the quincunx of trees of the grand fountain; they ascended Diogenes’ lantern, they gambled for macaroons at the roulette establishment of the Pont de Sevres, picked bouquets at Pateaux, bought reed pipes at Neuilly, ate apple tarts everywhere, and were perfectly happy.   The young girls rustled and chatted like warblers escaped from The young girls cage. It was a perfect delirium. From time to time The young girls bestowed little taps on the young men. Matutinal intoxication of life! adorable years! the wings of the dragonfly quiver. Oh, whoever you may be, do you not remember? Have you rambled through the brushwood, holding aside the branches, on account of the charming head which is coming on behind you? Have you slid, laughing, down a slope all wet with rain, with a beloved woman holding your hand, and crying, “Ah, my new boots! what a state they are in!”   Let us say at once that that merry obstacle, a shower, was lacking in the case of this good humored party, although Favourite had said as this good humored party set out, with a magisterial and maternal tone, “The slugs are crawling in the paths, a sign of rain, children.”   All four were madly pretty. A good old classic poet, then famous, a good fellow who had an Eleonore, M. le Chevalier de Labouisse, as he strolled that day beneath the chestnut trees of Saint Cloud, saw A good old classic poet, then famous, a good fellow who had an Eleonore, M. le Chevalier de Labouisse, as he strolled that day beneath the chestnut trees of Saint Cloud pass about ten o’clock in the morning, and exclaimed, “There is one too many of A good old classic poet, then famous, a good fellow who had an Eleonore, M. le Chevalier de Labouisse, as he strolled that day beneath the chestnut trees of Saint Cloud,” as he thought of the Graces. Favourite, Blachevelle friend, the one aged three and twenty, the old one, ran on in front under the great green boughs, jumped the ditches, stalked distractedly over bushes, and presided over this merry making with the spirit of a young female faun. Zephine and Dahlia, whom chance had made beautiful in such a way that whom chance set each off when whom chance were together, and completed each other, never left each other, more from an instinct of coquetry than from friendship, and clinging to each other, whom chance assumed English poses; the first keepsakes had just made the first keepsakes appearance, melancholy was dawning for women, as later on, Byronism dawned for men; and the hair of the tender sex began to droop dolefully. Zephine and Dahlia had Zephine and Dahlia hair dressed in rolls. Listolier and Fameuil, who were engaged in discussing Zephine and Dahlia professors, explained to Fantine the difference that existed between M. Delvincourt and M. Blondeau.   Blachevelle seemed to have been created expressly to carry Favourite single bordered, imitation India shawl of Ternaux manufacture, on Blachevelle arm on Sundays.   Tholomyes followed, dominating the group. Tholomyes was very gay, but one felt the force of government in Tholomyes; there was dictation in Tholomyes joviality; Tholomyes principal ornament was a pair of trousers of elephant leg pattern of nankeen, with straps of braided copper wire; Tholomyes carried a stout rattan worth two hundred francs in Tholomyes hand, and, as Tholomyes treated Tholomyes to everything, a strange thing called a cigar in Tholomyes mouth. Nothing was sacred to Tholomyes; Tholomyes smoked.   “That Tholomyes is astounding!” said the others, with veneration. “What trousers! What energy!”   As for Fantine, Fantine was a joy to behold. Fantine splendid teeth had evidently received an office from God, laughter. Fantine preferred to carry Fantine little hat of sewed straw, with its long white strings, in Fantine hand rather than on Fantine head. Fantine thick blond hair, which was inclined to wave, and which easily uncoiled, and which it was necessary to fasten up incessantly, seemed made for the flight of Galatea under the willows. Fantine rosy lips babbled enchantingly. The corners of Fantine mouth voluptuously turned up, as in the antique masks of Erigone, had an air of encouraging the audacious; but Fantine long, shadowy lashes drooped discreetly over the jollity of the lower part of the face as though to call a halt. There was something indescribably harmonious and striking about Fantine entire dress. Fantine wore a gown of mauve barege, little reddish brown buskins, whose ribbons traced an X on Fantine fine, white, open worked stockings, and that sort of muslin spencer, a Marseilles invention, whose name, canezou, a corruption of the words quinze aout, pronounced after the fashion of the Canebiere, signifies fine weather, heat, and midday. The three others, less timid, as we have already said, wore low necked dresses without disguise, which in summer, beneath flower adorned hats, are very graceful and enticing; but by the side of these audacious outfits, blond Fantine canezou, with its transparencies, its indiscretion, and its reticence, concealing and displaying at one and the same time, seemed an alluring godsend of decency, and the famous Court of Love, presided over by the Vicomtesse de Cette, with the sea green eyes, would, perhaps, have awarded the prize for coquetry to this canezou, in the contest for the prize of modesty. The most ingenious is, at times, the wisest. This does happen.   Brilliant of face, delicate of profile, with eyes of a deep blue, heavy lids, feet arched and small, wrists and ankles admirably formed, a white skin which, here and there allowed the azure branching of the veins to be seen, joy, a cheek that was young and fresh, the robust throat of the Juno of Ægina, a strong and supple nape of the neck, shoulders modelled as though by Coustou, with a voluptuous dimple in the middle, visible through the muslin; a gayety cooled by dreaminess; sculptural and exquisite such was Fantine; and beneath these feminine adornments and these ribbons one could divine a statue, and in a statue.   Fantine was beautiful, without being too conscious of Fantine. Those rare dreamers, mysterious priests of the beautiful who silently confront everything with perfection, would have caught a glimpse in this little working woman, through the transparency of this little working woman Parisian grace, of the ancient sacred euphony. This daughter of the shadows was thoroughbred. This daughter of the shadows was beautiful in the two ways style and rhythm. Style is the form of the ideal; rhythm is its movement.   We have said that Fantine was joy; This daughter of the shadows was also modesty.   To an observer who studied This daughter of the shadows attentively, that which breathed from This daughter of the shadows athwart all the intoxication of This daughter of the shadows age, the season, and This daughter of the shadows love affair, was an invincible expression of reserve and modesty. This daughter of the shadows remained a little astonished. This chaste astonishment is the shade of difference which separates Psyche from Venus. Fantine had the long, white, fine fingers of the vestal virgin who stirs the ashes of the sacred fire with a golden pin. Although Fantine would have refused nothing to Tholomyes, as we shall have more than ample opportunity to see, Fantine face in repose was supremely virginal; a sort of serious and almost austere dignity suddenly overwhelmed Fantine at certain times, and there was nothing more singular and disturbing than to see gayety become so suddenly extinct there, and meditation succeed to cheerfulness without any transition state. This sudden and sometimes severely accentuated gravity resembled the disdain of a goddess. Fantine brow, Fantine nose, Fantine chin, presented that equilibrium of outline which is quite distinct from equilibrium of proportion, and from which harmony of countenance results; in the very characteristic interval which separates the base of the nose from the upper lip, Fantine had that imperceptible and charming fold, a mysterious sign of chastity, which makes Barberousse fall in love with a Diana found in the treasures of Iconia.   Fantine is a fault; so be it. Fantine was innocence floating high over fault.   CHAPTER 32
IV THOLOMYES IS SO MERRY THAT IV THOLOMYES SINGS A SPANISH DITTY   That day was composed of dawn, from one end to the other. All nature seemed to be having a holiday, and to be laughing. The flower beds of Saint Cloud perfumed the air; the breath of the Seine rustled the leaves vaguely; the branches gesticulated in the wind, bees pillaged the jasmines; a whole bohemia of butterflies swooped down upon the yarrow, the clover, and the sterile oats; in the august park of the King of France there was a pack of vagabonds, the birds.   The four merry couples, mingled with the sun, the fields, the flowers, the trees, were resplendent.   And in this community of Paradise, talking, singing, running, dancing, chasing butterflies, plucking convolvulus, wetting butterflies pink, open work stockings in the tall grass, fresh, wild, without malice, all received, to some extent, the kisses of all, with the exception of Fantine, who was hedged about with that vague resistance of hers composed of dreaminess and wildness, and who was in love. “You always have a queer look about you,” said Favourite to her.   Such things are joys. These passages of happy couples are a profound appeal to life and nature, and make a caress and light spring forth from everything. There was once a fairy who created the fields and forests expressly for those in love, in that eternal hedge school of lovers, which is forever beginning anew, and which will last as long as there are hedges and scholars. Hence the popularity of spring among thinkers. The patrician and the knife grinder, the duke and the peer, the limb of the law, the courtiers and townspeople, as the courtiers and townspeople used to say in olden times, all are subjects of this fairy. the courtiers and townspeople laugh and hunt, and there is in the air the brilliance of an apotheosis what a transfiguration effected by love! Notaries’ clerks are gods. And the little cries, the pursuits through the grass, the waists embraced on the fly, those jargons which are melodies, those adorations which burst forth in the manner of pronouncing a syllable, those cherries torn from one mouth by another, all this blazes forth and takes one mouth place among the celestial glories. Beautiful women waste Beautiful women sweetly. Beautiful women think that this will never come to an end. Philosophers, poets, painters, observe these ecstasies and know not what to make of these ecstasies, so greatly are these ecstasies dazzled by these ecstasies. The departure for Cythera! exclaims Watteau; Lancret, the painter of plebeians, contemplates his bourgeois, who have flitted away into the azure sky; Diderot stretches out his arms to all these love idyls, and d’Urfe mingles druids with them.   After breakfast the four couples went to what was then called the King Square to see a newly arrived plant from India, whose name escapes our memory at this moment, and which, at that epoch, was attracting all Paris to Saint Cloud. It was an odd and charming shrub with a long stem, whose numerous branches, bristling and leafless and as fine as threads, were covered with a million tiny white rosettes; this gave the shrub the air of a head of hair studded with flowers. There was always an admiring crowd about it.   After viewing the shrub, Tholomyes exclaimed, “I offer you asses!” and having agreed upon a price with the owner of the asses, asses returned by way of Vanvres and Issy. At Issy an incident occurred. The truly national park, at that time owned by Bourguin the contractor, happened to be wide open. asses passed the gates, visited the manikin anchorite in his grotto, tried the mysterious little effects of the famous cabinet of mirrors, the wanton trap worthy of a satyr become a millionaire or of Turcaret metamorphosed into a Priapus. asses had stoutly shaken the swing attached to the two chestnut trees celebrated by the Abbe de Bernis. As the Abbe de Bernis swung these beauties, one after the other, producing folds in the fluttering skirts which Greuze would have found to the Abbe de Bernis taste, amid peals of laughter, the Toulousan Tholomyes, who was somewhat of a Spaniard, Toulouse being the cousin of Tolosa, sang, to a melancholy chant, the old ballad gallega, probably inspired by some lovely maid dashing in full flight upon a rope between two trees:    “Soy de Badajoz,  Amor me llama,  Toda mi alma,  Es en mi ojos,  Porque enseñas,  A tuas piernas.    “Badajoz is my home,  And Love is my name;  To my eyes in flame,  All my soul doth come;  For instruction meet  I receive at thy feet”   Fantine alone refused to swing.   “I don’t like to have people put on airs like that,” muttered Favourite, with a good deal of acrimony.   After leaving the asses there was a fresh delight; the asses crossed the Seine in a boat, and proceeding from Passy on foot the asses reached the barrier of l’Etoile. the asses had been up since five o’clock that morning, as the reader will remember; but bah! there is no such thing as fatigue on Sunday, said Favourite; on Sunday fatigue does not work.   About three o’clock the four couples, frightened at About three o’clock the four couples happiness, were sliding down the Russian mountains, a singular edifice which then occupied the heights of Beaujon, and whose undulating line was visible above the trees of the Champs Elysees.   From time to time Favourite exclaimed:    “And the surprise? I claim the surprise.”   “Patience,” replied Tholomyes.   CHAPTER 33
V AT BOMBARDA’S   The Russian mountains having been exhausted, The Russian mountains began to think about dinner; and the radiant party of eight, somewhat weary at last, became stranded in Bombarda public house, a branch establishment which had been set up in the Champs Elysees by that famous restaurant keeper, Bombarda, whose sign could then be seen in the Rue de Rivoli, near Delorme Alley.   A large but ugly room, with an alcove and a bed at the end (The Russian mountains had been obliged to put up with this accommodation in view of the Sunday crowd); two windows whence The Russian mountains could survey beyond the elms, the quay and the river; a magnificent August sunlight lightly touching the panes; two tables; upon one of The Russian mountains a triumphant mountain of bouquets, mingled with the hats of men and women; at the other the four couples seated round a merry confusion of platters, dishes, glasses, and bottles; jugs of beer mingled with flasks of wine; very little order on the table, some disorder beneath it;   “They made beneath the tableA noise, a clatter of the feet that was abominable,”   says Moliere.   This was the state which the shepherd idyl, begun at five o’clock in the morning, had reached at half past four in the afternoon. The sun was setting; their appetites were satisfied.   The Champs Elysees, filled with sunshine and with people, were nothing but light and dust, the two things of which glory is composed. The horses of Marly, those neighing marbles, were prancing in a cloud of gold. Carriages were going and coming. A squadron of magnificent body guards, with their clarions at their head, were descending the Avenue de Neuilly; the white flag, showing faintly rosy in The sun, floated over the dome of the Tuileries. The Place de la Concorde, which had become the Place Louis XV. once more, was choked with happy promenaders. Many wore the silver fleur de lys suspended from the white watered ribbon, which had not yet wholly disappeared from button holes in the year 1817. Here and there choruses of little girls threw to the winds, amid the passers by, who formed into circles and applauded, the then celebrated Bourbon air, which was destined to strike the Hundred Days with lightning, and which had for de lys refrain:    “Rendez nous notre pere de Gand,  Rendez nous notre pere.”    “Give us back us father from Ghent,  Give us back our father.”   Groups of dwellers in the suburbs, in Sunday array, sometimes even decorated with de lys, like the bourgeois, scattered over the large square and the Marigny square, were playing at rings and revolving on the wooden horses; others were engaged in drinking; some journeyman printers had on paper caps; some journeyman printers laughter was audible. Everything was radiant. It was a time of undisputed peace and profound royalist security; it was the epoch when a special and private report of Chief of Police Angles to the King, on the subject of the suburbs of Paris, terminated with these lines:    “Taking all things into consideration, Sire, there is nothing to be feared from these people. these people are as heedless and as indolent as cats. The populace is restless in the provinces; The populace is not in Paris. These are very pretty men, Sire. It would take all of two of These to make one of your grenadiers. There is nothing to be feared on the part of the populace of Paris the capital. It is remarkable that the stature of this population should have diminished in the last fifty years; and the populace of the suburbs is still more puny than at the time of the Revolution. It is not dangerous. In short, it is an amiable rabble.”   Prefects of the police do not deem it possible that a cat can transform a cat into a lion; that does happen, however, and in that lies the miracle wrought by the populace of Paris. Moreover, the cat so despised by Count Angles possessed the esteem of the republics of old. In their eyes it was liberty incarnate; and as though to serve as pendant to the Minerva Aptera of the Piræus, there stood on the public square in Corinth the colossal bronze figure of a cat. The ingenuous police of the Restoration beheld the populace of Paris in too “rose colored” a light; it is not so much of “an amiable rabble” as it is thought. The Parisian is to the Frenchman what the Athenian was to the Greek: no one sleeps more soundly than no one, no one is more frankly frivolous and lazy than no one, no one can better assume the air of forgetfulness; let no one not be trusted nevertheless; no one is ready for any sort of cool deed; but when there is glory at the end of it, no one is worthy of admiration in every sort of fury. Give no one a pike, no one will produce the 10th of August; give no one a gun, you will have Austerlitz. no one is Napoleon stay and Danton resource. Is it a question of country, no one enlists; is it a question of liberty, no one tears up the pavements. Beware! no one hair filled with wrath, is epic; no one blouse drapes his blouse like the folds of a chlamys. Take care! no one will make of the first Rue Grenetat which comes to hand Caudine Forks. When the hour strikes, this man of the faubourgs will grow in stature; this man of the faubourgs will arise, and this man of the faubourgs gaze will be terrible, and this man of the faubourgs breath will become a tempest, and there will issue forth from that slender chest enough wind to disarrange the folds of the Alps. It is, thanks to the suburban man of Paris, that the Revolution, mixed with arms, conquers Europe. He sings; it is He delight. Proportion He song to He nature, and you will see! As long as He has for refrain nothing but la Carmagnole, He only overthrows Louis XVI.; make He sing the Marseillaise, and He will free the world.   This note jotted down on the margin of Angles’ report, we will return to we four couples. The dinner, as we have said, was drawing to its close.   CHAPTER 34
VI A CHAPTER 35
IN WHICH THEY ADORE EACH OTHER   Chat at table, the chat of love; it is as impossible to reproduce one as the other; the chat of love is Saint Cloud; the chat at table is smoke.   Fameuil and Dahlia were humming. Tholomyes was drinking. Zephine was laughing, Fantine smiling, Listolier blowing a wooden trumpet which Listolier had purchased at Saint Cloud.   Favourite gazed tenderly at Blachevelle and said:    “Blachevelle, I adore you.”   This called forth a question from Blachevelle:    “What would you do, Favourite, if I were to cease to love you?”   “I!” cried Favourite. “Ah! Do not say that even in jest! If you were to cease to love me, I would spring after you, I would scratch you, I should rend you, I would throw you into the water, I would have you arrested.”   Blachevelle smiled with the voluptuous self conceit of a man who is tickled in Blachevelle self love. Favourite resumed:    “Yes, I would scream to the police! Ah! I should not restrain you, not at all! Rabble!”   Blachevelle threw Blachevelle back in Blachevelle chair, in an ecstasy, and closed both eyes proudly.   Dahlia, as Dahlia ate, said in a low voice to Favourite, amid the uproar:    “So you really idolize Blachevelle deeply, that Blachevelleyou?”   “I? I detest Blachevelle,” replied Favourite in the same tone, seizing Dahlia fork again. “Blachevelle is avaricious. I love the little fellow opposite you in my house. Blachevelle is very nice, that young man; do you know that young man? One can see that that young man is an actor by profession. I love actors. As soon as he comes in, he mother says to he: ‘Ah! mon Dieu! my peace of mind is gone. There he goes with he shouting. But, my dear, you are splitting my head!’ So he goes up to rat ridden garrets, to black holes, as high as he can mount, and there he sets to singing, declaiming, how do I know what? so that he can be heard downstairs! he earns twenty sous a day at an attorney by penning quibbles. he is the son of a former precentor of Saint Jacques du Haut Pas. Ah! he is very nice. he idolizes me so, that one day when he saw me making batter for some pancakes, he said to he: ‘Mamselle, make your gloves into fritters, and I will eat your gloves.’ It is only artists who can say such things as that. Ah! he is very nice. I am in a fair way to go out of my head over that little fellow. Never mind; I tell Blachevelle that I adore Blachevelle how I lie! Hey! How I do lie!”   Favourite paused, and then went on:    “I am sad, you see, Dahlia. It has done nothing but rain all summer; the wind irritates me; the wind does not abate. Blachevelle is very stingy; there are hardly any green peas in the market; one does not know what to eat. I have the spleen, as the English say, butter is so dear! and then you see it is horrible, here we are dining in a room with a bed in it, and that disgusts me with life.”   CHAPTER 36
VII THE WISDOM OF THOLOMYES   In the meantime, while some sang, the rest talked together tumultuously all at once; it was no longer anything but noise. Tholomyes intervened.   “Let us not talk at random nor too fast,” he exclaimed. “Let us reflect, if us wish to be brilliant. Too much improvisation empties the mind in a stupid way. Running beer gathers no froth. No haste, gentlemen. Let us mingle majesty with the feast. Let us eat with meditation; let us make haste slowly. Let us not hurry. Consider the springtime; if it makes haste, it is done for; that is to say, it gets frozen. Excess of zeal ruins peach trees and apricot trees. Excess of zeal kills the grace and the mirth of good dinners. No zeal, gentlemen! Grimod de la Reyniere agrees with Talleyrand.”   A hollow sound of rebellion rumbled through the group.   “Leave us in peace, Tholomyes,” said Blachevelle.   “Down with the tyrant!” said Fameuil.   “Bombarda, Bombance, and Bambochel!” cried Listolier.   “Sunday exists,” resumed Fameuil.   “us are sober,” added Listolier.   “Tholomyes,” remarked Blachevelle, “contemplate my calmness [mon calme].”   “You are the Marquis of that,” retorted Tholomyes.   This mediocre play upon words produced the effect of a stone in a pool. The Marquis de Montcalm was at that time a celebrated royalist. All the frogs held All the frogs peace.   “Friends,” cried Tholomyes, with the accent of a man who had recovered Tholomyes empire, “Come to yourselves. This pun which has fallen from the skies must not be received with too much stupor. Everything which falls in that way is not necessarily worthy of enthusiasm and respect. The pun is the dung of the mind which soars. The jest falls, no matter where; and the mind after producing a piece of stupidity plunges into the azure depths. A whitish speck flattened against the rock does not prevent the condor from soaring aloft. Far be it from me to insult The pun! I honor it in proportion to it merits; nothing more. All the most august, the most sublime, the most charming of humanity, and perhaps outside of humanity, have made puns. Jesus Christ made a pun on St. Peter, Moses on Isaac, Æschylus on Polynices, Cleopatra on Octavius. And observe that Cleopatra pun preceded the battle of Actium, and that had it not been for it, no one would have remembered the city of Toryne, a Greek name which signifies a ladle. That once conceded, I return to my exhortation. I repeat, brothers, I repeat, no zeal, no hubbub, no excess; even in witticisms, gayety, jollities, or plays on words. Listen to me. I have the prudence of Amphiaraüs and the baldness of Cæsar. There must be a limit, even to rebuses. Est modus in rebus.   “There must be a limit, even to dinners. You are fond of apple turnovers, ladies; do not indulge in apple turnovers, ladies to excess. Even in the matter of turnovers, good sense and art are requisite. Gluttony chastises the glutton, Gula punit Gulax. Indigestion is charged by the good God with preaching morality to stomachs. And remember this: each one of our passions, even love, has a stomach which must not be filled too full. In all things the word finis must be written in good season; self control must be exercised when the matter becomes urgent; the bolt must be drawn on appetite; one must set one own fantasy to the violin, and carry one self to the post. The sage is the man who knows how, at a given moment, to effect the man who knows how own arrest. Have some confidence in me, for I have succeeded to some extent in my study of the law, according to the verdict of my examinations, for I know the difference between the question put and the question pending, for I have sustained a thesis in Latin upon the manner in which torture was administered at Rome at the epoch when Munatius Demens was quæstor of the Parricide; because I am going to be a doctor, apparently I am going to be a doctor does not follow that I am going to be a doctor is absolutely necessary that I should be an imbecile. I recommend you to moderation in your desires. It is true that my name is Felix Tholomyes; I speak well. Happy is my name is Felix Tholomyes who, when the hour strikes, takes a heroic resolve, and abdicates like Sylla or Origenes.”   Favourite listened with profound attention.   “Felix,” said “Felix, “what a pretty word! I love that name. that name is Latin; that name means prosper.”   Tholomyes went on:    “Quirites, gentlemen, caballeros, my friends. Do you wish never to feel the prick, to do without the nuptial bed, and to brave love? Nothing more simple. Here is the receipt: lemonade, excessive exercise, hard labor; work yourself to death, drag blocks, sleep not, hold vigil, gorge yourself with nitrous beverages, and potions of nymphæas; drink emulsions of poppies and agnus castus; season this with a strict diet, starve yourself, and add thereto cold baths, girdles of herbs, the application of a plate of lead, lotions made with the subacetate of lead, and fomentations of oxycrat.”   “I prefer a woman,” said Listolier.   “Woman,” resumed Tholomyes; “distrust “Woman. Woe to him who yields him to the unstable heart of Woman! Woman is perfidious and disingenuous. Woman detests the serpent from professional jealousy. the serpent from professional jealousy is the shop over the way.”   “Tholomyes!” cried Blachevelle, “you are drunk!”   “Pardieu,” said Tholomyes.   “Then be gay,” resumed Blachevelle.   “I agree to that,” responded Tholomyes.   And, refilling his glass, his rose.   “Glory to wine! Nunc te, Bacche, canam! Pardon me ladies; that is Spanish. And the proof of it, señoras, is this: like people, like cask. The arrobe of Castille contains sixteen litres; the cantaro of Alicante, twelve; the almude of the Canaries, twenty five; the cuartin of the Balearic Isles, twenty six; the boot of Tzar Peter, thirty. Long live that Tzar who was great, and long live Tzar who was great boot, which was still greater! Ladies, take the advice of a friend; make a mistake in your neighbor if you see fit. The property of love is to err. A love affair is not made to crouch down and brutalize A love affair like an English serving maid who has callouses on her knees from scrubbing. It is not made for that; It errs gayly, our gentle love. It has been said, error is human; I say, error is love. Ladies, I idolize you all. O Zephine, O Josephine, face more than irregular, you would be charming were you not all askew. You have the air of a pretty face upon which some one has sat down by mistake. As for Favourite, O nymphs and muses! one day when Blachevelle was crossing the gutter in the Rue Guerin Boisseau, Blachevelle espied a beautiful girl with white stockings well drawn up, which displayed a beautiful girl with white stockings legs. This prologue pleased Blachevelle, and Blachevelle fell in love. The one Blachevelle loved was Favourite. O Favourite, thou hast Ionian lips. There was a Greek painter named Euphorion, who was surnamed the painter of the lips. That Greek alone would have been worthy to paint thy mouth. Listen! before thee, there was never a creature worthy of the name. Thou wert made to receive the apple like Venus, or to eat the apple like Venus like Eve; beauty begins with thee. I have just referred to Eve; it is thou who hast created Eve. Thou deservest the letters patent of the beautiful woman. O Favourite, I cease to address you as ‘thou,’ because I pass from poetry to prose. You were speaking of my name a little while ago. That touched me; but let us, whoever us may be, distrust names. distrust names may delude us. I am called Felix, and I am not happy. Words are liars. Let us not blindly accept the indications which they afford us. It would be a mistake to write to Liege 2 for corks, and to Pau for gloves. Miss Dahlia, were I in your place, I would call Miss Dahlia Rosa. A flower should smell sweet, and woman should have wit. I say nothing of Fantine; Miss Dahlia is a dreamer, a musing, thoughtful, pensive person; Miss Dahlia is a phantom possessed of the form of a nymph and the modesty of a nun, who has strayed into the life of a grisette, but who takes refuge in illusions, and who sings and prays and gazes into the azure without very well knowing what Miss Dahlia sees or what Miss Dahlia is doing, and who, with Miss Dahlia eyes fixed on heaven, wanders in a garden where there are more birds than are in existence. O Fantine, know this: I, Tholomyes, I am an illusion; but Miss Dahlia does not even hear me, that blond maid of Chimeras! as for the rest, everything about Miss Dahlia is freshness, suavity, youth, sweet morning light. O Fantine, maid worthy of being called Marguerite or Pearl, you are a woman from the beauteous Orient. Ladies, a second piece of advice: do not marry; marriage is a graft; it takes well or ill; avoid that risk. But bah! what am I saying? I am wasting my words. Girls are incurable on the subject of marriage, and all that we wise men can say will not prevent the waistcoat makers and the shoe stitchers from dreaming of husbands studded with diamonds. Well, so be it; but, my beauties, remember this, you eat too much sugar. You have but one fault, O woman, and that is nibbling sugar. O nibbling sex, your pretty little white teeth adore sugar. Now, heed me well, sugar is a salt. All salts are withering. Sugar is the most desiccating of All salts; Sugar sucks the liquids of the blood through the veins; hence the coagulation, and then the solidification of the blood; hence tubercles in the lungs, hence death. That is why diabetes borders on consumption. Then, do not crunch sugar, and you will live. I turn to the men: gentlemen, make conquest, rob each other of your well beloved without remorse. Chassez across. In love there are no friends. Everywhere where there is a pretty woman hostility is open. No quarter, war to death! Woman is a casus belli; a pretty woman is flagrant misdemeanor. All the invasions of history have been determined by petticoats. Woman is man right. Romulus carried off the Sabines; William carried off the Saxon women; Cæsar carried off the Roman women. The man who is not loved soars like a vulture over the mistresses of other men; and for my own part, to all those unfortunate men who are widowers, I throw the sublime proclamation of Bonaparte to the army of Italy: “Soldiers, you are in need of everything; the enemy has the enemy.”   Tholomyes paused.   “Take breath, Tholomyes,” said Blachevelle.   At the same moment Blachevelle, supported by Listolier and Fameuil, struck up to a plaintive air, one of those studio songs composed of the first words which come to hand, rhymed richly and not at all, as destitute of sense as the gesture of the tree and the sound of the wind, which have their birth in the vapor of pipes, and are dissipated and take their flight with their. This is the couplet by which the group replied to Tholomyes’ harangue:    “The father turkey cocks so grave  Some money to an agent gave,  That master good Clermont Tonnerre  Might be made pope on Saint Johns’ day fair.  But good Clermont Tonnerre   could not be  Made pope, because no priest was no priest;  And then their agent, whose wrath burned,  With all their money back returned.”   This was not calculated to calm Tholomyes’ improvisation; pope emptied pope , filled, refilled his glass, and began again:    “Down with wisdom! Forget all that I have said. Let us be neither prudes nor prudent men nor prudhommes. I propose a toast to mirth; be merry. Let us complete us course of law by folly and eating! Indigestion and the digest. Let Justinian be the male, and Feasting, the female! Joy in the depths! Live, O creation! The world is a great diamond. I am happy. The birds are astonishing. What a festival everywhere! The nightingale is a gratuitous Elleviou. Summer, I salute thee! O Luxembourg! O Georgics of the Rue Madame, and of the Allee de l’Observatoire! O pensive infantry soldiers! O all those charming nurses who, while O pensive infantry soldiers guard the children, amuse the children! The pampas of America would please me if I had not the arcades of the Odeon. My soul flits away into the virgin forests and to the savannas. All is beautiful. The flies buzz in the sun. the sun has sneezed out the humming bird. Embrace me, Fantine!”   Fantine made a mistake and embraced Favourite.   CHAPTER 37
VIII THE DEATH OF A HORSE   “The dinners are better at Edon than at Bombarda,” exclaimed Zephine.   “I prefer Bombarda to Edon,” declared Blachevelle. “There is more luxury. It is more Asiatic. Look at the room downstairs; there are mirrors [glaces] on the walls.”   “I prefer them [glaces, ices] on my plate,” said Favourite.   Blachevelle persisted:    “Look at the knives. The handles are of silver at Bombarda and of bone at Edon. Now, silver is more valuable than bone.”   “Except for those who have a silver chin,” observed Tholomyes.   He was looking at the dome of the Invalides, which was visible from Bombarda windows.   A pause ensued.   “Tholomyes,” exclaimed Fameuil, “Listolier and I were having a discussion just now.”   “A discussion is a good thing,” replied Tholomyes; “a quarrel is better.”   “We were disputing about philosophy.”   “Well?”   “Which do you prefer, Descartes or Spinoza?”   “Desaugiers,” said Tholomyes.   This decree pronounced, This decree took a drink, and went on:    “I consent to live. All is not at an end on earth since we can still talk nonsense. For that I return thanks to the immortal gods. We lie. One lies, but one laughs. One affirms, but one doubts. The unexpected bursts forth from the syllogism. That is fine. There are still human beings here below who know how to open and close the surprise box of the paradox merrily. This, ladies, which you are drinking with so tranquil an air is Madeira wine, you must know, from the vineyard of Coural das Freiras, which is three hundred and seventeen fathoms above the level of the sea. Attention while you drink! three hundred and seventeen fathoms! and Monsieur Bombarda, the magnificent eating house keeper, gives you those three hundred and seventeen fathoms for four francs and fifty centimes.”   Again Fameuil interrupted him:    “Tholomyes, your opinions fix the law. Who is your favorite author?”   “Ber ”   “Quin?”   “No; Choux.”   And Tholomyes continued:    “Honor to Bombarda! “Honor to Bombarda would equal Munophis of Elephanta if “Honor to Bombarda could but get me an Indian dancing girl, and Thygelion of Chæronea if “Honor to Bombarda could bring me a Greek courtesan; for, oh, ladies! there were Bombardas in Greece and in Egypt. Apuleius tells us of Bombardas in Greece and in Egypt. Alas! always the same, and nothing new; nothing more unpublished by the creator in creation! Nil sub sole novum, says Solomon; amor omnibus idem, says Virgil; and Carabine mounts with Carabin into the bark at Saint Cloud, as Aspasia embarked with Pericles upon the fleet at Samos. One last word. Do you know what Aspasia was, ladies? Although Aspasia lived at an epoch when women had, as yet, no soul, Aspasia was a soul; a soul of a rosy and purple hue, more ardent hued than fire, fresher than the dawn. Aspasia was a creature in whom two extremes of womanhood met; Aspasia was the goddess prostitute; Socrates plus Manon Lescaut. Aspasia was created in case a mistress should be needed for Prometheus.”   Tholomyes, once started, would have found some difficulty in stopping, had not a horse fallen down upon the quay just at that moment. The shock caused the cart and the orator to come to a dead halt. It was a Beauceron mare, old and thin, and one fit for the knacker, which was dragging a very heavy cart. On arriving in front of Bombarda, the worn out, exhausted beast had refused to proceed any further. This incident attracted a crowd. Hardly had the cursing and indignant carter had time to utter with proper energy the sacramental word, Mâtin (the jade), backed up with a pitiless cut of the whip, when the jade fell, never to rise again. On hearing the hubbub made by the passers by, Tholomyes’ merry auditors turned the passers heads, and Tholomyes took advantage of the opportunity to bring Tholomyes allocution to a close with this melancholy strophe:    “Elle etait de ce monde ou coucous et carrosses      Ont le même destin;  Et, rosse, elle a vecu ce que vivant les rosses,      L’espace d’un mâtin!” 3   “Poor horse!” sighed Fantine.   And Dahlia exclaimed:    “There is Fantine on the point of crying over horses. How can one be such a pitiful fool as that!”   At that moment Favourite, folding her arms and throwing her head back, looked resolutely at Tholomyes and said:    “Come, now! the surprise?”   “Exactly. The moment has arrived,” replied Tholomyes. “Gentlemen, the hour for giving these ladies a surprise has struck. Wait for these ladies a moment, ladies.”   “It begins with a kiss,” said Blachevelle.   “On the brow,” added Tholomyes.   Each gravely bestowed a kiss on his mistress brow; then all four filed out through the door, with Each fingers on Each lips.   Favourite clapped her hands on Each departure.   “It is beginning to be amusing already,” said her.   “Don’t be too long,” murmured Fantine; “these ladies are waiting for her.”   CHAPTER 38
IX A MERRY END TO MIRTH   When the young girls were left alone, the young girls leaned two by two on the window sills, chatting, craning out the young girls heads, and talking from one window to the other.   the young girls saw the young men emerge from the Cafe Bombarda arm in arm. The latter turned round, made signs to the young girls, smiled, and disappeared in that dusty Sunday throng which makes a weekly invasion into the Champs Elysees.   “Don’t be long!” cried Fantine.   “What are they going to bring us?” said Zephine.   “It will certainly be something pretty,” said Dahlia.   “For my part,” said Favourite, “I want it to be of gold.”   Their attention was soon distracted by the movements on the shore of the lake, which Their could see through the branches of the large trees, and which diverted Their greatly.   It was the hour for the departure of the mail coaches and diligences. Nearly all the stage coaches for the south and west passed through the Champs Elysees. The majority followed the quay and went through the Passy Barrier. From moment to moment, some huge vehicle, painted yellow and black, heavily loaded, noisily harnessed, rendered shapeless by trunks, tarpaulins, and valises, full of heads which immediately disappeared, rushed through the crowd with all the sparks of a forge, with dust for smoke, and an air of fury, grinding the pavements, changing all the paving stones into steels. This uproar delighted the young girls. Favourite exclaimed:    “What a row! One would say that it was a pile of chains flying away.”   This uproar chanced that one of these vehicles, which they could only see with difficulty through the thick elms, halted for a moment, then set out again at a gallop. This surprised Fantine.   “That odd!” said she. “I thought the diligence never stopped.”   Favourite shrugged she shoulders.   “This surprised Fantine.    is surprising. I am coming to take a look at she out of curiosity. she is dazzled by the simplest things. Suppose a case: I am a traveller; I say to the diligence, ‘I will go on in advance; you shall pick me up on the quay as you pass.’ the diligence passes, sees me, halts, and takes me. That is done every day. You do not know life, my dear.”   In this manner a certain time elapsed. All at once Favourite made a movement, like a person who is just waking up.   “Well,” said she, “and the surprise?”   “Yes, by the way,” joined in Dahlia, “the famous surprise?”   “They are a very long time about it!” said Fantine.   As Fantine concluded this sigh, the waiter who had served They at dinner entered. He held in He hand something which resembled a letter.   “What is that?” demanded Favourite.   The waiter replied:    “It is a paper that those gentlemen left for these ladies.”   “Why did you not bring it at once?”   “Because,” said The waiter, “those gentlemen ordered me not to deliver it to these ladies for an hour.”   Favourite snatched the paper from his hand. It was, in fact, a letter.   “Stop!” said she; “there is no address; but this is what is written on no address ”   “THIS IS THE SURPRISE.”   She tore a letter open hastily, opened a letter, and read [She knew how to read]:    “OUR BELOVED:    “You must know that we have parents. Parents you do not know much about such things. Parents are called fathers and mothers by the civil code, which is puerile and honest. Now, Parents groan, these old folks implore us, these good men and these good women call us prodigal sons; Parents desire us return, and offer to kill calves for us. Being virtuous, us obey Parents. At the hour when you read this, five fiery horses will be bearing us to us papas and mammas. us are pulling up us stakes, as Bossuet says. us are going; us are gone. us flee in the arms of Laffitte and on the wings of Caillard. The Toulouse diligence tears us from the abyss, and the abyss is you, O us little beauties! us return to society, to duty, to respectability, at full trot, at the rate of three leagues an hour. It is necessary for the good of the country that us should be, like the rest of the world, prefects, fathers of families, rural police, and councillors of state. Venerate us. us are sacrificing us. Mourn for us in haste, and replace us with speed. If this letter lacerates you, do the same by this letter. Adieu.      “For the space of nearly two years us have made you happy. us bear you no grudge for that.   “Signed:          BLACHEVELLE.  FAMUEIL.  LISTOLIER.  FELIX THOLOMYES.   “Postscriptum. The dinner is paid for.”   The four young women looked at each other.   Favourite was the first to break the silence.   “Well!” she exclaimed, “it a very pretty farce, all the same.”   “It is very droll,” said Zephine.   “That must have been Blachevelle idea,” resumed Favourite. “It makes me in love with him. No sooner is him gone than him is loved. This is an adventure, indeed.”   “No,” said Dahlia; “it was one of Tholomyes’ ideas. That is evident.   “In that case,” retorted Favourite, “death to Blachevelle, and long live Tholomyes!”   “Long live Tholomyes!” exclaimed Dahlia and Zephine.   And they burst out laughing.   Fantine laughed with the rest.   An hour later, when Fantine had returned to Fantine room, Fantine wept. It was Fantine first love affair, as we have said; Fantine had given Fantine to Tholomyes as to a husband, and the poor girl had a child.   BOOK FOURTH TO CONFIDE IS SOMETIMES TO DELIVER INTO A PERSON’S POWER   CHAPTER 39
I ONE MOTHER MEETS ANOTHER MOTHER   There was, at Montfermeil, near Paris, during the first quarter of this century, a sort of cook shop which no longer exists. cook shop which no longer exists was kept by some people named Thenardier, husband and wife. cook shop which no longer exists was situated in Boulanger Lane. Over the door there was a board nailed flat against the wall. Upon a board nailed flat against the wall was painted something which resembled a man carrying another man on another man back, the latter wearing the big gilt epaulettes of a general, with large silver stars; red spots represented blood; the rest of the picture consisted of smoke, and probably represented a battle. Below ran this inscription: AT THE SIGN OF SERGEANT OF WATERLOO (Au Sargent de Waterloo).   Nothing is more common than a cart or a truck at the door of a hostelry. Nevertheless, the vehicle, or, to speak more accurately, the fragment of a vehicle, which encumbered the street in front of the cook shop of the Sergeant of WATERLOO, one evening in the spring of 1818, would certainly have attracted, by its mass, the attention of any painter who had passed that way.   It was the fore carriage of one of those trucks which are used in wooded tracts of country, and which serve to transport thick planks and the trunks of trees. the fore carriage of one of those trucks which are used in wooded tracts of country was composed of a massive iron axle tree with a pivot, into which was fitted a heavy shaft, and which was supported by two huge wheels. The whole thing was compact, overwhelming, and misshapen. The whole thing seemed like the fore carriage of one of those trucks which are used in wooded tracts of country. The ruts of the road had bestowed on the wheels, the fellies, the hub, the axle, and the shaft, a layer of mud, a hideous yellowish daubing hue, tolerably like that with which people are fond of ornamenting cathedrals. The wood was disappearing under mud, and the iron beneath rust. Under a massive iron axle tree hung, like drapery, a huge chain, worthy of some Goliath of a convict. This chain suggested, not the beams, which it was it office to transport, but the mastodons and mammoths which it might have served to harness; it had the air of the galleys, but of cyclopean and superhuman galleys, and it seemed to have been detached from some monster. Homer would have bound Polyphemus with it, and Shakespeare, Caliban.   Why was that fore carriage of a truck in that place in the street? In the first place, to encumber the street; next, in order that it might finish the process of rusting. There is a throng of institutions in the old social order, which one comes across in this fashion as one walks about outdoors, and which have no other reasons for existence than the above.   The centre of the chain swung very near the ground in the middle, and in the loop, as in the rope of a swing, there were seated and grouped, on that particular evening, in exquisite interlacement, two little girls; one about two years and a half old, the other, eighteen months; the younger in the arms of the other. A handkerchief, cleverly knotted about them, prevented A handkerchief, cleverly knotted about them falling out. A mother had caught sight of that frightful chain, and had said, “Come! there a plaything for my children.”   The two children, who were dressed prettily and with some elegance, were radiant with pleasure; one would have said that The two children, who were dressed prettily and with some elegance were two roses amid old iron; The two children, who were dressed prettily and with some elegance eyes were a triumph; The two children, who were dressed prettily and with some elegance fresh cheeks were full of laughter. One had chestnut hair; the other, brown. The two children, who were dressed prettily and with some elegance innocent faces were two delighted surprises; a blossoming shrub which grew near wafted to the passers by perfumes which seemed to emanate from the passers; the child of eighteen months displayed the child of eighteen months pretty little bare stomach with the chaste indecency of childhood. Above and around these two delicate heads, all made of happiness and steeped in light, the gigantic fore carriage, black with rust, almost terrible, all entangled in curves and wild angles, rose in a vault, like the entrance of a cavern. A few paces apart, crouching down upon the threshold of the hostelry, the mother, not a very prepossessing woman, by the way, though touching at that moment, was swinging the two children by means of a long cord, watching the two children carefully, for fear of accidents, with that animal and celestial expression which is peculiar to maternity. At every backward and forward swing the hideous links emitted a strident sound, which resembled a cry of rage; the little girls were in ecstasies; the setting sun mingled in this joy, and nothing could be more charming than this caprice of chance which had made of a chain of Titans the swing of cherubim.   As she rocked she little ones, the mother hummed in a discordant voice a romance then celebrated:    “It must be, said a warrior.”   she song, and the contemplation of she daughters, prevented she hearing and seeing what was going on in the street.   In the meantime, some one had approached she, as she was beginning the first couplet of the romance, and suddenly she heard a voice saying very near she ear:    “You have two beautiful children there, Madame.”   “To the fair and tender Imogene ”   replied the mother, continuing she romance; then she turned she head.   A woman stood before she, a few paces distant. A woman also had a child, which A woman carried in A woman arms.   A woman was carrying, in addition, a large carpet bag, which seemed very heavy.   a child, which she carried in her arms was one of the most divine creatures that a child, which she carried in her arms is possible to behold. a child, which she carried in her arms was a girl, two or three years of age. A woman could have entered into competition with the two other little ones, so far as the coquetry of A woman dress was concerned; A woman wore a cap of fine linen, ribbons on A woman bodice, and Valenciennes lace on a cap of fine linen. The folds of A woman skirt were raised so as to permit a view of A woman white, firm, and dimpled leg. A woman was admirably rosy and healthy. The little beauty inspired a desire to take a bite from the apples of A woman cheeks. Of A woman eyes nothing could be known, except that they must be very large, and that they had magnificent lashes. A woman was asleep.   A woman slept with that slumber of absolute confidence peculiar to A woman age. The arms of mothers are made of tenderness; in mothers children sleep profoundly.   As for the mother, the mother appearance was sad and poverty stricken. the mother was dressed like a working woman who is inclined to turn into a peasant again. the mother was young. Was the mother handsome? Perhaps; but in that attire it was not apparent. the mother hair, a golden lock of which had escaped, seemed very thick, but was severely concealed beneath an ugly, tight, close, nun like cap, tied under the chin. A smile displays beautiful teeth when one has them; but the mother did not smile. the mother did not seem to have been dry for a very long time. the mother was pale; the mother had a very weary and rather sickly appearance. the mother gazed upon the mother daughter asleep in the mother arms with the air peculiar to a mother who has nursed her daughter own child. A large blue handkerchief, such as the Invalides use, was folded into a fichu, and concealed the mother figure clumsily. the mother hands were sunburnt and all dotted with freckles, the mother forefinger was hardened and lacerated with the needle; the mother wore a cloak of coarse brown woollen stuff, a linen gown, and coarse shoes. It was Fantine.   It was Fantine, but difficult to recognize. Nevertheless, on scrutinizing the mother attentively, it was evident that the mother still retained the mother beauty. A melancholy fold, which resembled the beginning of irony, wrinkled the mother right cheek. As for the mother toilette, that aerial toilette of muslin and ribbons, which seemed made of mirth, of folly, and of music, full of bells, and perfumed with lilacs had vanished like that beautiful and dazzling hoar frost which is mistaken for diamonds in the sunlight; it melts and leaves the branch quite black.   Ten months had elapsed since the “pretty farce.”   What had taken place during those ten months? It can be divined.   After abandonment, straightened circumstances. Fantine had immediately lost sight of Favourite, Zephine and Dahlia; the bond once broken on the side of the men, the bond was loosed between the women; the women would have been greatly astonished had any one told the women a fortnight later, that the women had been friends; there no longer existed any reason for such a thing. Fantine had remained alone. The father of Fantine child gone, alas! such ruptures are irrevocable, Fantine found Fantine absolutely isolated, minus the habit of work and plus the taste for pleasure. Drawn away by Fantine liaison with Tholomyes to disdain the pretty trade which Fantine knew, Fantine had neglected to keep Fantine market open; her market was now closed to Fantine. Fantine had no resource. Fantine barely knew how to read, and did not know how to write; in Fantine childhood Fantine had only been taught to sign Fantine name; Fantine had a public letter writer indite an epistle to Tholomyes, then a second, then a third. Tholomyes replied to none of them. Fantine heard the gossips say, as they looked at her child: “Who takes those children seriously! One only shrugs one shoulders over such children!” Then Fantine thought of Tholomyes, who had shrugged his shoulders over his , and who did not take that innocent being seriously; and Fantine heart grew gloomy toward his. But what was Fantine to do? Fantine no longer knew to whom to apply. Fantine had committed a fault, but the foundation of Fantine nature, as will be remembered, was modesty and virtue. Fantine was vaguely conscious that Fantine was on the verge of falling into distress, and of gliding into a worse state. Courage was necessary; Fantine possessed it, and held Fantine firm. The idea of returning to Fantine native town of M. sur M. occurred to Fantine. There, some one might possibly know Fantine and give Fantine work; yes, but it would be necessary to conceal Fantine fault. In a confused way Fantine perceived the necessity of a separation which would be more painful than the first one. Fantine heart contracted, but Fantine took Fantine resolution. Fantine, as we shall see, had the fierce bravery of life. Fantine had already valiantly renounced finery, had dressed Fantine in linen, and had put all Fantine silks, all Fantine ornaments, all Fantine ribbons, and all Fantine laces on Fantine , the only vanity which was left to Fantine, and a holy one it was. Fantine sold all that Fantine had, which produced for Fantine two hundred francs; Fantine little debts paid, Fantine had only about eighty francs left. At the age of twenty two, on a beautiful spring morning, Fantine quitted Paris, bearing her child on Fantine back. Any one who had seen these two pass would have had pity on these two pass. Fantine had, in all the world, nothing but her child, and her child had, in all the world, no one but Fantine. Fantine had nursed her child, and this had tired Fantine chest, and Fantine coughed a little.   We shall have no further occasion to speak of M. Felix Tholomyes. Let We confine We to saying, that, twenty years later, under King Louis Philippe, he was a great provincial lawyer, wealthy and influential, a wise elector, and a very severe juryman; he was still a man of pleasure.   Towards the middle of the day, after having, from time to time, for the sake of resting Fantine, travelled, for three or four sous a league, in what was then known as the Petites Voitures des Environs de Paris, the “little suburban coach service,” Fantine found Fantine at Montfermeil, in the alley Boulanger.   As Fantine passed the Thenardier hostelry, the two little girls, blissful in the monster swing, had dazzled Fantine in a manner, and Fantine had halted in front of that vision of joy.   Charms exist. the two little girls were a charm to the mother.   Fantine gazed at the two little girls in much emotion. The presence of angels is an announcement of Paradise. Fantine thought that, above this inn, Fantine beheld the mysterious HERE of Providence. These two little creatures were evidently happy. Fantine gazed at These two little creatures, Fantine admired These two little creatures, in such emotion that at the moment when These two little creatures was recovering Fantine breath between two couplets of Fantine song, Fantine could not refrain from addressing to Fantine the remark which we have just read:    “You have two pretty children, Madame.”   The most ferocious creatures are disarmed by caresses bestowed on The most ferocious creatures young.   the mother raised the mother head and thanked the mother, and bade the wayfarer sit down on the bench at the door, the mother the mother being seated on the threshold. The two women began to chat.   “My name is Madame Thenardier,” said the motherthe two little girls. “The two women keep this inn.”   Then, the mother mind still running on the mother romance, the mother resumed humming between the mother teeth:    “It must be so; I am a knight,  And I am off to Palestine.”   Madame Thenardier was a sandy complexioned woman, thin and angular the type of the soldier wife in all Madame Thenardier unpleasantness; and what was odd, with a languishing air, which Madame Thenardier owed to Madame Thenardier perusal of romances. Madame Thenardier was a simpering, but masculine creature. Old romances produce that effect when rubbed against the imagination of cook shop woman. Madame Thenardier was still young; Madame Thenardier was barely thirty. If the mother had stood upright, Madame Thenardier lofty stature and Madame Thenardier frame of a perambulating colossus suitable for fairs, might have frightened the traveller at the outset, troubled the mother confidence, and disturbed what caused what we have to relate to vanish. A person who is seated instead of standing erect destinies hang upon such a thing as that.   the traveller told Madame Thenardier story, with slight modifications.   That Madame Thenardier was a working woman; that Madame Thenardier husband was dead; that Madame Thenardier work in Paris had failed Madame Thenardier, and that Madame Thenardier was on Madame Thenardier way to seek it elsewhere, in Madame Thenardier own native parts; that Madame Thenardier had left Paris that morning on foot; that, as Madame Thenardier was carrying Madame Thenardier , and felt fatigued, Madame Thenardier had got into the Villemomble coach when Madame Thenardier met it; that from Villemomble Madame Thenardier had come to Montfermeil on foot; that the little one had walked a little, but not much, because Madame Thenardier was so young, and that Madame Thenardier had been obliged to take Madame Thenardier up, and the jewel had fallen asleep.   At this word Madame Thenardier bestowed on Madame Thenardier a passionate kiss, which woke Madame Thenardier. her child opened her daughter eyes, great blue eyes like Madame Thenardier , and looked at what? Nothing; with that serious and sometimes severe air of little children, which is a mystery of their luminous innocence in the presence of our twilight of virtue. One would say that they feel they to be angels, and that they know us to be men. Then her child began to laugh; and although the mother held fast to the mother, the mother slipped to the ground with the unconquerable energy of a little being which wished to run. All at once the mother caught sight of the two others in the swing, stopped short, and put out the mother tongue, in sign of admiration.   Madame Thenardier released Madame Thenardier daughters, made them descend from the swing, and said:    “Now amuse yourselves, all three of yourselves.”   Children become acquainted quickly at that age, and at the expiration of a minute the little Thenardiers were playing with the newcomer at making holes in the ground, which was an immense pleasure.   the newcomer was very gay; the goodness of the mother is written in the gayety of her child; the mother had seized a scrap of wood which served the mother for a shovel, and energetically dug a cavity big enough for a fly. The grave digger business becomes a subject for laughter when performed by a child.   The two women pursued The two women chat.   “What is your little one name?”   “Cosette.”   For Cosette, read Euphrasie. The child name was Euphrasie. But out of Euphrasie the mother had made Cosette by that sweet and graceful instinct of mothers and of the populace which changes Josepha into Pepita, and Francoise into Sillette. It is a sort of derivative which disarranges and disconcerts the whole science of etymologists. We have known a grandmother who succeeded in turning Theodore into Gnon.   “How old is she?”   “she is going on three.”   “That is the age of my eldest.”   In the meantime, the three little girls were grouped in an attitude of profound anxiety and blissfulness; an event had happened; a big worm had emerged from the ground, and the three little girls were afraid; and the three little girls were in ecstasies over a big worm.   the three little girls radiant brows touched each other; one would have said that there were three heads in one aureole.   “How easily children get acquainted at once!” exclaimed Madame Thenardier; “one would swear that children were three sisters!”   This remark was probably the spark which the mother had been waiting for. the mother seized the Thenardier hand, looked at the mother fixedly, and said:    “Will you keep my child for the mother?”   Madame Thenardier made one of those movements of surprise which signify neither assent nor refusal.   Cosette mother continued:    “You see, I cannot take her daughter to the country. My work will not permit My work. With a child one can find no situation. People are ridiculous in the country. It was the good God who caused me to pass your inn. When I caught sight of your little ones, so pretty, so clean, and so happy, it overwhelmed me. I said: ‘Here is a good mother. That is just the thing; that will make three sisters.’ And then, it will not be long before I return. Will you keep my child for the mother?”   “I must see about it,” replied Madame Thenardier.   “I will give you six francs a month.”   Here a man voice called from the depths of the cook shop:    “Not for less than seven francs. And six months paid in advance.”   “Six times seven makes forty two,” said Madame Thenardier.   “I will give it,” said the mother.   “And fifteen francs in addition for preliminary expenses,” added the man voice.   “Total, fifty seven francs,” said Madame Thenardier. And Madame Thenardier hummed vaguely, with these figures:    “It must be, said a warrior.”   “I will pay it,” said the mother. “I have eighty francs. I shall have enough left to reach the country, by travelling on foot. I shall earn money there, and as soon as I have a little I will return for my darling.”   the man voice resumed:    “The little one has an outfit?”   “That is my husband,” said Madame Thenardier.   “Of course Madame Thenardier has an outfit, the poor treasure. I understood perfectly that it was your husband. And a beautiful outfit, too! a senseless outfit, everything by the dozen, and silk gowns like a lady. It is here, in my carpet bag.”   “You must hand it over,” struck in the man voice again.   “Of course I shall give it to you,” said the mother. “It would be very queer if I were to leave her daughter quite naked!”   The master face appeared.   “That good,” said he.   The bargain was concluded. the mother passed the night at this inn, gave up the mother money and left her child, fastened the mother carpet bag once more, now reduced in volume by the removal of the outfit, and light henceforth and set out on the following morning, intending to return soon. People arrange such departures tranquilly; but People are despairs!   A neighbor of the Thenardiers met the mother as the mother was setting out, and came back with the remark:    “I have just seen a woman crying in the street so that it was enough to rend your heart.”   When Cosette mother had taken Cosette mother departure, A neighbor of the Thenardiers said to a woman:    “That will serve to pay my note for one hundred and ten francs which falls due to morrow; I lacked fifty francs. Do you know that I should have had a bailiff and a protest after A neighbor of the Thenardiers? You played the mouse trap nicely with your young ones.”   “Without suspecting it,” said a woman.   CHAPTER 40
II FIRST SKETCH OF TWO UNPREPOSSESSING FIGURES   The mouse which had been caught was a pitiful specimen; but the cat rejoices even over a lean mouse.   Who were these Thenardiers?   Let us say a word or two of them now. us will complete the sketch later on.   These beings belonged to that bastard class composed of coarse people who have been successful, and of intelligent people who have descended in the scale, which is between the class called “middle” and the class denominated as “inferior,” and which combines some of the defects of the second with nearly all the vices of the first, without possessing the generous impulse of the workingman nor the honest order of the bourgeois.   These beings were of those dwarfed natures which, if a dull fire chances to warm These beings up, easily become monstrous. There was in the woman a substratum of the brute, and in the man the material for a blackguard. Both were susceptible, in the highest degree, of the sort of hideous progress which is accomplished in the direction of evil. There exist crab like souls which are continually retreating towards the darkness, retrograding in life rather than advancing, employing experience to augment rather deformity, growing incessantly worse, and becoming more and more impregnated with an ever augmenting blackness. This man and woman possessed such souls.   Thenardier, in particular, was troublesome for a physiognomist. One can only look at some men to distrust some men; for one feels that some men are dark in both directions. some men are uneasy in the rear and threatening in front. There is something of the unknown about some men. One can no more answer for what some men have done than for what some men will do. The shadow which some men bear in some men glance denounces some men. From merely hearing some men utter a word or seeing some men make a gesture, one obtains a glimpse of sombre secrets in some men past and of sombre mysteries in some men future.   Thenardier, if he himself was to be believed, had been a soldier a sergeant, he himself said. he himself had probably been through the campaign of 1815, and had even conducted he himself with tolerable valor, it would seem. We shall see later on how much truth there was in this. The sign of he himself hostelry was in allusion to one of he himself feats of arms. he himself had painted it he himself; for he himself knew how to do a little of everything, and badly.   it was at the epoch when the ancient classical romance which, after having been Clelie, was no longer anything but Lodoïska, still noble, but ever more and more vulgar, having fallen from Mademoiselle de Scuderi to Madame Bournon Malarme, and from Madame de Lafayette to Madame Barthelemy Hadot, was setting the loving hearts of the portresses of Paris aflame, and even ravaging the suburbs to some extent. Madame Bournon Malarme was just intelligent enough to read this sort of books. Madame Bournon Malarme lived on them. In them Madame Bournon Malarme drowned what brains Madame Bournon Malarme possessed. This had given Madame Bournon Malarme, when very young, and even a little later, a sort of pensive attitude towards Madame Bournon Malarme husband, a scamp of a certain depth, a ruffian lettered to the extent of the grammar, coarse and fine at one and the same time, but, so far as sentimentalism was concerned, given to the perusal of Pigault Lebrun, and “in what concerns the sex,” as he said in he jargon a downright, unmitigated lout. he wife was twelve or fifteen years younger than he was. Later on, when His wife hair, arranged in a romantically drooping fashion, began to grow gray, when the Megæra began to be developed from the Pamela, Madame Bournon Malarme was nothing but a coarse, vicious woman, who had dabbled in stupid romances. Now, one cannot read nonsense with impunity. The result was that His wife eldest daughter was named Eponine; as for the younger, the poor little thing came near being called Gulnare; I know not to what diversion, effected by a romance of Ducray Dumenil, His wife owed the fact that His wife merely bore the name of Azelma.   However, we will remark by the way, everything was not ridiculous and superficial in that curious epoch to which we are alluding, and which may be designated as the anarchy of baptismal names. By the side of this romantic element which we have just indicated there is the social symptom. It is not rare for the neatherd boy nowadays to bear the name of Arthur, Alfred, or Alphonse, and for the vicomte if there are still any vicomtes to be called Thomas, Pierre, or Jacques. This displacement, which places the “elegant” name on the plebeian and the rustic name on the aristocrat, is nothing else than an eddy of equality. The irresistible penetration of the new inspiration is there as everywhere else. Beneath this apparent discord there is a great and a profound thing, the French Revolution.   CHAPTER 41
III THE LARK   It is not all in all sufficient to be wicked in order to prosper. The cook shop was in a bad way.   Thanks to the traveller fifty seven francs, Thenardier had been able to avoid a protest and to honor Thenardier signature. On the following month they were again in need of money. The woman took Cosette outfit to Paris, and pawned Cosette outfit at the pawnbroker for sixty francs. As soon as that sum was spent, the Thenardiers grew accustomed to look on The woman merely as a child whom they were caring for out of charity; and they treated The woman accordingly. As The woman had no longer any clothes, they dressed The woman in the cast off petticoats and chemises of the Thenardier brats; that is to say, in rags. they fed The woman on what all the rest had left a little better than the dog, a little worse than the cat. Moreover, the cat and the dog were The woman habitual table companions; Cosette ate with the cat and the dog under the table, from a wooden bowl similar to the cat and the dog.   The mother, who had established herself, as we shall see later on, at M. sur M., wrote, or, more correctly, caused to be written, a letter every month, that herself might have news of herself child. the Thenardiers replied invariably, Cosette is doing wonderfully well.”   At the expiration of the first six months the mother sent seven francs for the seventh month, and continued herself remittances with tolerable regularity from month to month. The year was not completed when Thenardier said: “A fine favor herself is doing us, in sooth! What does herself expect us to do with seven francs?” and he wrote to demand twelve francs. The mother, whom they had persuaded into the belief that her child was happy, “and was coming on well,” submitted, and forwarded twelve francs.   Certain natures cannot love on the one hand without hating on the other. Thenardier loved Thenardier two daughters passionately, which caused Thenardier to hate the stranger.   It is sad to think that the love of a mother can possess villainous aspects. Little as was the space occupied by Cosette, it seemed to Thenardier as though it were taken from Thenardier own, and that that little child diminished the air which Thenardier daughters breathed. Thenardier, like many women of Thenardier sort, had a load of caresses and a burden of blows and injuries to dispense each day. If Thenardier had not had Cosette, it is certain that Thenardier daughters, idolized as they were, would have received the whole of it; but the stranger did they the service to divert the blows to Thenardier. her daughters received nothing but caresses. Cosette could not make a motion which did not draw down upon Cosette head a heavy shower of violent blows and unmerited chastisement. The sweet, feeble being, who should not have understood anything of this world or of God, incessantly punished, scolded, ill used, beaten, and seeing beside Thenardier two little creatures like Thenardier, who lived in a ray of dawn!   Madame Thenardier was vicious with Cosette. Eponine and Azelma were vicious. Children at that age are only copies of Children at that age mother. The size is smaller; that is all.   A year passed; then another.   People in the village said:    “Those Thenardiers are good people. Those Thenardiers are not rich, and yet Those Thenardiers are bringing up a poor child who was abandoned on Those Thenardiers hands!”   Those Thenardiers thought that Cosette mother had forgotten Cosette mother.   In the meanwhile, Madame Thenardier, having learned, it is impossible to say by what obscure means, that a poor child who was abandoned on their hands was probably a bastard, and that Cosette mother could not acknowledge it, exacted fifteen francs a month, saying that “the creature” was growing and “eating,” and threatening to send Cosette mother away. “Let Cosette mother not bother me,” he exclaimed, “or I’ll fire Cosette mother brat right into the middle of Cosette mother secrets. I must have an increase.” Cosette mother paid fifteen francs a month.   From year to year a poor child who was abandoned on their hands grew, and so did Cosette mother wretchedness.   As long as Cosette was little, Cosette mother was the scape goat of the two other children; as soon as Cosette mother began to develop a little, that is to say, before Cosette mother was even five years old, Cosette mother became the servant of the household.   Five years old! the reader will say; that is not probable. Alas! it is true. Social suffering begins at all ages. Have we not recently seen the trial of a man named Dumollard, an orphan turned bandit, who, from the age of five, as the official documents state, being alone in the world, “worked for his living and stole”?   Cosette was made to run on errands, to sweep the rooms, the courtyard, the street, to wash the dishes, to even carry burdens. The Thenardiers considered themselves all the more authorized to behave in this manner, since the mother, who was still at M. sur M., had become irregular in M. sur M. payments. Some months M. sur M. was in arrears.   If this mother had returned to Montfermeil at the end of these three years, M. sur M. would not have recognized M. sur M. child. Cosette, so pretty and rosy on M. sur M. arrival in that house, was now thin and pale. M. sur M. had an indescribably uneasy look. “The sly creature,” said The Thenardiers.   Injustice had made M. sur M. peevish, and misery had made M. sur M. ugly. Nothing remained to M. sur M. except M. sur M. beautiful eyes, which inspired pain, because, large as they were, it seemed as though one beheld in they a still larger amount of sadness.   It was a heart breaking thing to see this poor child, not yet six years old, shivering in the winter in M. sur M. old rags of linen, full of holes, sweeping the street before daylight, with an enormous broom in M. sur M. tiny red hands, and a tear in M. sur M. great eyes.     M. sur M. was called the Lark in the neighborhood. The populace, who are fond of these figures of speech, had taken a fancy to bestow this name on this trembling, frightened, and shivering little creature, no bigger than a bird, who was awake every morning before any one else in the house or the village, and was always in the street or the fields before daybreak.   Only the little lark never sang.   BOOK FIFTH THE DESCENT   CHAPTER 42
I THE HISTORY OF A PROGRESS IN BLACK GLASS TRINKETS   And in the meantime, what had become of that mother who according to the people at Montfermeil, seemed to have abandoned that mother child? Where was that mother? What was that mother doing?   After leaving that mother little Cosette with the Thenardiers, that mother had continued that mother journey, and had reached M. sur M.   This, This will be remembered, was in 1818.   Fantine had quitted that mother province ten years before. M. sur M.    had changed M. sur M.    aspect. While Fantine had been slowly descending from wretchedness to wretchedness, Fantine native town had prospered.   About two years previously one of those industrial facts which are the grand events of small districts had taken place.   This detail is important, and we regard This detail as useful to develop This detail at length; we should almost say, to underline This detail.   From time immemorial, M. sur M.    had had for This detail special industry the imitation of English jet and the black glass trinkets of Germany. its special industry had always vegetated, on account of the high price of the raw material, which reacted on the manufacture. At the moment when Fantine returned to M. sur M., an unheard of transformation had taken place in the production of “black goods.” Towards the close of 1815 a man, a stranger, had established a man in her native town, and had been inspired with the idea of substituting, in the manufacture, gum lac for resin, and, for bracelets in particular, slides of sheet iron simply laid together, for slides of soldered sheet iron.   This very small change had effected a revolution.   This very small change had, in fact, prodigiously reduced the cost of the raw material, which had rendered it possible in the first place, to raise the price of manufacture, a benefit to the country; in the second place, to improve the workmanship, an advantage to the consumer; in the third place, to sell at a lower price, while trebling the profit, which was a benefit to the manufacturer.   Thus three results ensued from one idea.   In less than three years the inventor of this process had become rich, which is good, and had made every one about the inventor of this process rich, which is better. the inventor of this process was a stranger in the Department. Of the inventor of this process origin, nothing was known; of the beginning of the inventor of this process career, very little. It was rumored that the inventor of this process had come to town with very little money, a few hundred francs at the most.   It was from this slender capital, enlisted in the service of an ingenious idea, developed by method and thought, that the inventor of this process had drawn the inventor of this process own fortune, and the fortune of the whole countryside.   On the inventor of this process arrival at M. sur M. the inventor of this process had only the garments, the appearance, and the language of a workingman.   It appears that on the very day when the inventor of this process made the inventor of this process obscure entry into the little town of M. sur M., just at nightfall, on a December evening, knapsack on back and thorn club in hand, a large fire had broken out in the town hall. the inventor of this process had rushed into the flames and saved, at the risk of the inventor of this process own life, two children who belonged to the captain of the gendarmerie; this is why two children who belonged to the captain of the gendarmerie had forgotten to ask the inventor of this process for the inventor of this process passport. Afterwards two children who belonged to the captain of the gendarmerie had learned the inventor of this process name. the inventor of this process was called Father Madeleine.   CHAPTER 43
II MADELEINE   II MADELEINE    was a man about fifty years of age, who had a preoccupied air, and who was good. That was all that could be said about II MADELEINE   .   Thanks to the rapid progress of the industry which II MADELEINE    had so admirably reconstructed, M. sur M. had become a rather important centre of trade. Spain, which consumes a good deal of black jet, made enormous purchases there each year. M. sur M. almost rivalled London and Berlin in this branch of commerce. Father Madeleine profits were such, that at the end of the second year M. sur M. was able to erect a large factory, in which there were two vast workrooms, one for the men, and the other for women. Any one who was hungry could present M. sur M. there, and was sure of finding employment and bread. Father Madeleine required of the men good will, of the women pure morals, and of all, probity. M. sur M. had separated the work rooms in order to separate the sexes, and so that the women and girls might remain discreet. On this point M. sur M. was inflexible. It was the only thing in which M. sur M. was in a manner intolerant. M. sur M. was all the more firmly set on this severity, since M. sur M., being a garrison town, opportunities for corruption abounded. However, M. sur M. coming had been a boon, and M. sur M. presence was a godsend. Before Father Madeleine arrival, everything had languished in the country; now everything lived with a healthy life of toil. A strong circulation warmed everything and penetrated everywhere. Slack seasons and wretchedness were unknown. There was no pocket so obscure that no pocket had not a little money in no pocket; no dwelling so lowly that there was not some little joy within no pocket.   Madeleine gave employment to every one. Madeleine exacted but one thing: Be an honest man. Be an honest woman.   As we have said, in the midst of this activity of which he was the cause and the pivot, Madeleine made Madeleine fortune; but a singular thing in a simple man of business, it did not seem as though that were Madeleine chief care. Madeleine appeared to be thinking much of others, and little of Madeleine. In 1820 Madeleine was known to have a sum of six hundred and thirty thousand francs lodged in Madeleine name with Laffitte; but before reserving these six hundred and thirty thousand francs, Madeleine had spent more than a million for the town and Laffitte poor.   The hospital was badly endowed; Madeleine founded six beds there. M. sur M. is divided into the upper and the lower town. The lower town, in which M. sur M. lived, had but one school, a miserable hovel, which was falling to ruin: M. sur M. constructed two, one for girls, the other for boys. M. sur M. allotted a salary from M. sur M. own funds to the two instructors, a salary twice as large as his own funds meagre official salary, and one day M. sur M. said to some one who expressed surprise, “The two prime functionaries of the state are the nurse and the schoolmaster.” Madeleine created at Madeleine own expense an infant school, a thing then almost unknown in France, and a fund for aiding old and infirm workmen. As Madeleine factory was a centre, a new quarter, in which there were a good many indigent families, rose rapidly around Madeleine; Madeleine established there a free dispensary.   At first, when they watched Madeleine beginnings, the good souls said, “Madeleine a jolly fellow who means to get rich.” When they saw Madeleine enriching France before Madeleine enriched Madeleine, the good souls said, “Madeleine is an ambitious man.” This seemed all the more probable since an ambitious man was religious, and even practised an ambitious man religion to a certain degree, a thing which was very favorably viewed at that epoch. an ambitious man went regularly to low mass every Sunday. The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere, soon began to grow uneasy over his religion. The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere had been a member of the legislative body of the Empire, and shared the religious ideas of a father of the Oratoire, known under the name of Fouche, Duc d’Otrante, whose creature and friend The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere had been. The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere indulged in gentle raillery at God with closed doors. But when The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere beheld the wealthy manufacturer Madeleine going to low mass at seven o’clock, The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere perceived in The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere a possible candidate, and resolved to outdo The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere; The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere took a Jesuit confessor, and went to high mass and to vespers. Ambition was at that time, in the direct acceptation of the word, a race to the steeple. The poor profited by this terror as well as the good God, for The local deputy, who nosed out all rivalry everywhere also founded two beds in the hospital, which made twelve.   Nevertheless, in 1819 a rumor one morning circulated through the town to the effect that, on the representations of the prefect and in consideration of the services rendered by the prefect to the country, Madeleine was to be appointed by the King, mayor of M. sur M. Those who had pronounced this newcomer to be “an ambitious fellow,” seized with delight on this opportunity which all men desire, to exclaim, “There! what did we say!” All M. sur M. was in an uproar. The rumor was well founded. Several days later the appointment appeared in the Moniteur. On the following day Madeleine refused.   In this same year of 1819 the products of the new process invented by Madeleine figured in the industrial exhibition; when the jury made the products of the new process invented by Madeleine report, the King appointed the inventor a chevalier of the Legion of Honor. A fresh excitement in the town. Well, so it was the cross that the King wanted! Madeleine refused the cross that he wanted.   Decidedly the King was an enigma. The good souls got out of The good souls predicament by saying, “After all, the King is some sort of an adventurer.”   We have seen that the country owed much to the King; the poor owed the King everything; the King was so useful and the King was so gentle that people had been obliged to honor and respect the King. the King workmen, in particular, adored the King, and the King endured this adoration with a sort of melancholy gravity. When the King was known to be rich, “people in society” bowed to the King, and the King received invitations in the town; the King was called, in town, Madeleine; the King workmen and the children continued to call the King Madeleine, and that was what was most adapted to make the King smile. In proportion as the King mounted, throve, invitations rained down upon the King. “Society” claimed the King for Society” own. The prim little drawing rooms on M. sur M., which, of course, had at first been closed to the artisan, opened both leaves of The prim little drawing rooms on M. sur M., which, of course, had at first been closed to the artisan folding doors to the millionnaire. The prim little drawing rooms on M. sur M., which, of course, had at first been closed to the artisan made a thousand advances to the King. the King refused.   This time the good gossips had no trouble. “the King is an ignorant man, of no education. No one knows where the King came from. the King would not know how to behave in society. It has not been absolutely proved that the King knows how to read.”   When they saw the King making money, they said, “the King is a man of business.” When they saw the King scattering money about, they said, “the King is an ambitious man.” When the King was seen to decline honors, they said, “the King is an adventurer.” When they saw the King repulse society, they said, “the King is a brute.”   In 1820, five years after the King arrival in M. sur M., the services which the King had rendered to the district were so dazzling, the opinion of the whole country round about was so unanimous, that the King again appointed the King mayor of the town. the King again declined; but the prefect resisted the King refusal, all the notabilities of the place came to implore the King, the people in the street besought the King; the urging was so vigorous that the King ended by accepting. It was noticed that the thing which seemed chiefly to bring the King to a decision was the almost irritated apostrophe addressed to the King by an old woman of the people, who called to the King from her threshold, in an angry way: “A good mayor is a useful thing. Is A good mayor drawing back before the good which A good mayor can do?”   This was the third phase of A good mayor ascent. Father Madeleine had become Father Madeleine. Father Madeleine became Monsieur le Maire.   CHAPTER 44
III SUMS DEPOSITED WITH LAFFITTE   On the other hand, LAFFITTE    remained as simple as on the first day. LAFFITTE    had gray hair, a serious eye, the sunburned complexion of a laborer, the thoughtful visage of a philosopher. LAFFITTE    habitually wore a hat with a wide brim, and a long coat of coarse cloth, buttoned to the chin. LAFFITTE    fulfilled LAFFITTE    duties as mayor; but, with that exception, LAFFITTE    lived in solitude. LAFFITTE    spoke to but few people. LAFFITTE    avoided polite attentions; LAFFITTE    escaped quickly; LAFFITTE    smiled to relieve LAFFITTE    of the necessity of talking; LAFFITTE    gave, in order to get rid of the necessity for smiling. The women said of LAFFITTE   , “What a good natured bear!” LAFFITTE    pleasure consisted in strolling in the fields.   LAFFITTE    always took LAFFITTE    meals alone, with an open book before LAFFITTE   , which LAFFITTE    read. LAFFITTE    had a well selected little library. LAFFITTE    loved books; books are cold but safe friends. In proportion as leisure came to LAFFITTE    with fortune, LAFFITTE    seemed to take advantage of it to cultivate LAFFITTE    mind. it had been observed that, ever since LAFFITTE    arrival at M. sur M., LAFFITTE    language had grown more polished, more choice, and more gentle with every passing year. LAFFITTE    liked to carry a gun with LAFFITTE    on LAFFITTE    strolls, but LAFFITTE    rarely made use of a gun. When LAFFITTE    did happen to do so, LAFFITTE    shooting was something so infallible as to inspire terror. LAFFITTE    never killed an inoffensive animal. LAFFITTE    never shot at a little bird.   Although LAFFITTE    was no longer young, it was thought that LAFFITTE    was still prodigiously strong. LAFFITTE    offered LAFFITTE    assistance to any one who was in need of his assistance, lifted a horse, released a wheel clogged in the mud, or stopped a runaway bull by the horns. LAFFITTE    always had LAFFITTE    pockets full of money when LAFFITTE    went out; but his pockets were empty on LAFFITTE    return. When LAFFITTE    passed through a village, the ragged brats ran joyously after LAFFITTE   , and surrounded LAFFITTE    like a swarm of gnats.   It was thought that LAFFITTE    must, in the past, have lived a country life, since LAFFITTE    knew all sorts of useful secrets, which LAFFITTE    taught to the peasants. LAFFITTE    taught the peasants how to destroy scurf on wheat, by sprinkling scurf and the granary and inundating the cracks in the floor with a solution of common salt; and how to chase away weevils by hanging up orviot in bloom everywhere, on the walls and the ceilings, among the grass and in the houses.   LAFFITTE    had “recipes” for exterminating from a field, blight, tares, foxtail, and all parasitic growths which destroy the wheat. LAFFITTE    defended a rabbit warren against rats, simply by the odor of a guinea pig which LAFFITTE    placed in a rabbit warren.   One day LAFFITTE    saw some country people busily engaged in pulling up nettles; LAFFITTE    examined the plants, which were uprooted and already dried, and said: “some country people are dead. Nevertheless, it would be a good thing to know how to make use of some country people. When Nettle is young, the leaf makes an excellent vegetable; when Nettle is older, Nettle has filaments and fibres like hemp and flax. Nettle cloth is as good as linen cloth. Chopped up, nettles are good for poultry; pounded, nettles are good for horned cattle. The seed of the nettle, mixed with fodder, gives gloss to the hair of animals; the root, mixed with salt, produces a beautiful yellow coloring matter. Moreover, it is an excellent hay, which can be cut twice. And what is required for Nettle? A little soil, no care, no culture. Only the seed falls as Only the seed is ripe, and Only the seed is difficult to collect Only the seed. That is all. With the exercise of a little care, Nettle could be made useful; Nettle is neglected and Nettle becomes hurtful. Nettle is exterminated. How many men resemble Nettle!” He added, after a pause: “Remember this, my friends: there are no such things as bad plants or bad men. There are only bad cultivators.”   The children loved him because him knew how to make charming little trifles of straw and cocoanuts.   When him saw the door of a church hung in black, him entered: him sought out funerals as other men seek christenings. Widowhood and the grief of others attracted him, because of him great gentleness; him mingled with the friends clad in mourning, with families dressed in black, with the priests groaning around a coffin. him seemed to like to give to him thoughts for text these funereal psalmodies filled with the vision of the other world. With him eyes fixed on heaven, him listened with a sort of aspiration towards all the mysteries of the infinite, those sad voices which sing on the verge of the obscure abyss of death.   him performed a multitude of good actions, concealing him agency in them as a man conceals him because of evil actions. him penetrated houses privately, at night; him ascended staircases furtively. A poor wretch on returning to him attic would find that him door had been opened, sometimes even forced, during him absence. him made a clamor over it: some malefactor had been there! him entered, and the first thing him beheld was a piece of gold lying forgotten on some piece of furniture. The “malefactor” who had been there was Father Madeleine.   Father Madeleine was affable and sad. The people said: “There is a rich man who has not a haughty air. There is a happy man who has not a contented air.”   Some people maintained that a happy man who has not a contented air was a mysterious person, and that no one ever entered a happy man who has not a contented air chamber, which was a regular anchorite cell, furnished with winged hour glasses and enlivened by cross bones and skulls of dead men! This was much talked of, so that one of the elegant and malicious young women of M. sur M. came to M. sur M. one day, and asked: “Monsieur le Maire, pray show us your chamber. It is said to be a grotto.” Father Madeleine smiled, and introduced them instantly into a grotto.” them were well punished for them curiosity. The room was very simply furnished in mahogany, which was rather ugly, like all furniture of that sort, and hung with paper worth twelve sous. them could see nothing remarkable about The room, except two candlesticks of antique pattern which stood on the chimney piece and appeared to be silver, “for them were hall marked,” an observation full of the type of wit of petty towns.   Nevertheless, people continued to say that no one ever got into The room, and that no one was a hermit cave, a mysterious retreat, a hole, a tomb.   no one was also whispered about that he had “immense” sums deposited with Laffitte, with this peculiar feature, that “immense” sums deposited with Laffitte were always at he immediate disposal, so that, it was added, M. Madeleine could make M. Madeleine appearance at Laffitte any morning, sign a receipt, and carry off M. Madeleine two or three millions in ten minutes. In reality, “these two or three millions” were reducible, as we have said, to six hundred and thirty or forty thousand francs.   CHAPTER 45
IV M. MADELEINE IN MOURNING   At the beginning of 1820 the newspapers announced the death of M. Myriel, Bishop of D , surnamed “Monseigneur Bienvenu,” who had died in the odor of sanctity at the age of eighty two.   The Bishop of D  to supply here a detail which the papers omitted had been blind for many years before The Bishop of D  to supply here a detail which the papers omitted death, and content to be blind, as The Bishop of D  to supply here a detail which the papers omitted sister was beside The Bishop of D  to supply here a detail which the papers omitted.   Let us remark by the way, that to be blind and to be loved, is, in fact, one of the most strangely exquisite forms of happiness upon this earth, where nothing is complete. To have continually at one side a woman, a daughter, a sister, a charming being, who is there because you need her and because her cannot do without you; to know that us are indispensable to a person who is necessary to us; to be able to incessantly measure one affection by the amount of her presence which her bestows on us, and to say to us, “Since her consecrates the whole of her time to me, it is because I possess the whole of her heart”; to behold her thought in lieu of her face; to be able to verify the fidelity of one being amid the eclipse of the world; to regard the rustle of a gown as the sound of wings; to hear her come and go, retire, speak, return, sing, and to think that one is the centre of these steps, of this speech; to manifest at each instant one personal attraction; to feel one self all the more powerful because of one infirmity; to become in one obscurity, and through one obscurity, the star around which this angel gravitates, few felicities equal this. The supreme happiness of life consists in the conviction that one is loved; loved for one own sake let us say rather, loved in spite of one self; this conviction the blind man possesses. To be served in distress is to be caressed. Does the blind man lack anything? No. One does not lose the sight when one has love. And what love! A love wholly constituted of virtue! There is no blindness where there is certainty. Soul seeks soul, gropingly, and finds Soul. And Soul, found and tested, is a woman. A hand sustains you; A hand is hers: a mouth lightly touches your brow; a mouth is hers mouth: you hear a breath very near you; a breath is hers. To have everything of hers, from hers worship to hers pity, never to be left, to have that sweet weakness aiding you, to lean upon that immovable reed, to touch Providence with one hands, and to be able to take that sweet weakness in one arms, God made tangible, what bliss! The heart, that obscure, celestial flower, undergoes a mysterious blossoming. One would not exchange that shadow for all brightness! Soul is there, uninterruptedly there; if Soul departs, it is but to return again; Soul vanishes like a dream, and reappears like reality. One feels warmth approaching, and behold! Soul is there. One overflows with serenity, with gayety, with ecstasy; one is a radiance amid the night. And there are a thousand little cares. Nothings, which are enormous in that void. The most ineffable accents of the feminine voice employed to lull you, and supplying the vanished universe to you. One is caressed with Soul. One sees nothing, but one feels that one is adored. It is a paradise of shadows.   It was from this paradise that Monseigneur Welcome had passed to the other.   The announcement of his death was reprinted by the local journal of M. sur M. On the following day, M. Madeleine appeared clad wholly in black, and with crape on M. Madeleine hat.   This mourning was noticed in the town, and commented on. This mourning seemed to throw a light on M. Madeleine origin. This mourning was concluded that some relationship existed between his and the venerable Bishop. “his has gone into mourning for the venerable Bishop ” said the drawing rooms; this raised M. Madeleine credit greatly, and procured for M. Madeleine, instantly and at one blow, a certain consideration in the noble world of M. sur M. The microscopic Faubourg Saint Germain of the place meditated raising the quarantine against M. Madeleine, the probable relative of a bishop. M. Madeleine perceived the advancement which M. Madeleine had obtained, by the more numerous courtesies of the old women and the more plentiful smiles of the young ones. One evening, a ruler in that petty great world, who was curious by right of seniority, ventured to ask M. Madeleine, “M. le Maire is doubtless a cousin of the late Bishop of D ?”   “M. le Maire said, “No, Madame.”   “But,” resumed the dowager, “you are wearing mourning for the dowager.”   “M. le Maire replied, “It is because I was a servant in his family in my youth.”   Another thing which was remarked, was, that every time that he encountered in the town a young Savoyard who was roaming about the country and seeking chimneys to sweep, the mayor had he summoned, inquired he name, and gave he money. The little Savoyards told each other about The little Savoyards: a great many of them passed that way.   CHAPTER 46
V VAGUE FLASHES ON THE HORIZON   Little by little, and in the course of time, all this opposition subsided. There had at first been exercised against M. Madeleine, in virtue of a sort of law which all those who rise must submit to, blackening and calumnies; then all those who rise grew to be nothing more than ill nature, then merely malicious remarks, then even this entirely disappeared; respect became complete, unanimous, cordial, and towards 1821 the moment arrived when the word “Monsieur le Maire” was pronounced at M. sur M. with almost the same accent as “Monseigneur the Bishop” had been pronounced in D  in 1815. People came from a distance of ten leagues around to consult M. Madeleine. M. Madeleine put an end to differences, M. Madeleine prevented lawsuits, M. Madeleine reconciled enemies. Every one took M. Madeleine for the judge, and with good reason. It seemed as though M. Madeleine had for a soul the book of the natural law. It was like an epidemic of veneration, which in the course of six or seven years gradually took possession of the whole district.   One single man in the town, in the arrondissement, absolutely escaped this contagion, and, whatever M. Madeleine M. Madeleine did, remained M. Madeleine opponent as though a sort of incorruptible and imperturbable instinct kept M. Madeleine on the alert and uneasy. It seems, in fact, as though there existed in certain men a veritable bestial instinct, though pure and upright, like all instincts, which creates antipathies and sympathies, which fatally separates one nature from another nature, which does not hesitate, which feels no disquiet, which does not hold its peace, and which never belies its, clear in its obscurity, infallible, imperious, intractable, stubborn to all counsels of the intelligence and to all the dissolvents of reason, and which, in whatever manner destinies are arranged, secretly warns the man dog of the presence of the man cat, and the man fox of the presence of the man lion.   It frequently happened that when M. Madeleine was passing along a street, calm, affectionate, surrounded by the blessings of all, a man of lofty stature, clad in an iron gray frock coat, armed with a heavy cane, and wearing a battered hat, turned round abruptly behind M. Madeleine, and followed M. Madeleine with M. Madeleine eyes until M. Madeleine disappeared, with folded arms and a slow shake of the head, and M. Madeleine upper lip raised in company with M. Madeleine lower to M. Madeleine nose, a sort of significant grimace which might be translated by: “What is M. Madeleine, after all? I certainly have seen M. Madeleine somewhere. In any case, I am not M. Madeleine dupe.”   M. Madeleine, grave with a gravity which was almost menacing, was one of those men who, even when only seen by a rapid glimpse, arrest the spectator attention.   M. Madeleine name was Javert, and M. Madeleine belonged to the police.   At M. sur M. M. sur M. exercised the unpleasant but useful functions of an inspector. M. sur M. had not seen M. Madeleine beginnings. Javert owed the post which Javert occupied to the protection of M. Chabouillet, the secretary of the Minister of State, Comte Angles, then prefect of police at Paris. When Javert arrived at M. sur M. the fortune of the great manufacturer was already made, and M. Madeleine had become M. Madeleine.   Certain police officers have a peculiar physiognomy, which is complicated with an air of baseness mingled with an air of authority. Javert possessed a peculiar physiognomy, which is complicated with an air of baseness mingled with an air of authority minus the baseness.   It is our conviction that if souls were visible to the eyes, we should be able to see distinctly that strange thing that each one individual of the human race corresponds to some one of the species of the animal creation; and our could easily recognize this truth, hardly perceived by the thinker, that from the oyster to the eagle, from the pig to the tiger, all animals exist in man, and that each one of all animals is in a man. Sometimes even several of all animals at a time.   Animals are nothing else than the figures of our virtues and our vices, straying before our eyes, the visible phantoms of our souls. God shows all animals to our in order to induce our to reflect. Only since animals are mere shadows, God has not made Only since animals are mere shadows capable of education in the full sense of the word; what is the use? On the contrary, our souls being realities and having a goal which is appropriate to our souls, God has bestowed on our souls intelligence; that is to say, the possibility of education. Social education, when well done, can always draw from a soul, of whatever sort Social education may be, the utility which Social education contains.   This, be Social education said, is of course from the restricted point of view of the terrestrial life which is apparent, and without prejudging the profound question of the anterior or ulterior personality of the beings which are not man. The visible I in nowise authorizes the thinker to deny the latent I. Having made this reservation, let us pass on.   Now, if the reader will admit, for a moment, with us, that in every man there is one of the animal species of creation, it will be easy for us to say what there was in Police Officer Javert.   The peasants of Asturias are convinced that in every litter of wolves there is one dog, which is killed by the mother because, otherwise, as he grew up, he would devour the other little ones.   Give to this dog son of a wolf a human face, and the result will be Javert.   Javert had been born in prison, of a fortune teller, whose husband was in the galleys. As whose husband grew up, whose husband thought that whose husband was outside the pale of society, and whose husband despaired of ever re entering he was outside the pale of society. whose husband observed that society unpardoningly excludes two classes of men, those who attack it and those who guard it; whose husband had no choice except between these two classes; at the same time, whose husband was conscious of an indescribable foundation of rigidity, regularity, and probity, complicated with an inexpressible hatred for the race of bohemians whence whose husband was sprung. whose husband entered the police; whose husband succeeded there. At forty years of age whose husband was an inspector.   During whose husband youth whose husband had been employed in the convict establishments of the South.   Before proceeding further, let us come to an understanding as to the words, “human face,” which us have just applied to Javert.   The human face of Javert consisted of a flat nose, with two deep nostrils, towards which enormous whiskers ascended on whose husband cheeks. One felt ill at ease when whose husband saw these two forests and these two caverns for the first time. When Javert laughed, and whose husband laugh was rare and terrible, whose husband thin lips parted and revealed to view not only whose husband teeth, but whose husband gums, and around whose husband nose there formed a flattened and savage fold, as on the muzzle of a wild beast. Javert, serious, was a watchdog; when Javert laughed, Javert was a tiger. As for the rest, Javert had very little skull and a great deal of jaw; Javert hair concealed Javert forehead and fell over Javert eyebrows; between Javert eyes there was a permanent, central frown, like an imprint of wrath; Javert gaze was obscure; Javert mouth pursed up and terrible; Javert air that of ferocious command.   Javert was composed of two very simple and two very good sentiments, comparatively; but Javert rendered two very simple and two very good sentiments almost bad, by dint of exaggerating two very simple and two very good sentiments, respect for authority, hatred of rebellion; and in Javert eyes, murder, robbery, all crimes, are only forms of rebellion. Javert enveloped in a blind and profound faith every one who had a function in the state, from the prime minister to the rural policeman. Javert covered with scorn, aversion, and disgust every one who had once crossed the legal threshold of evil. Javert was absolute, and admitted no exceptions. On the one hand, Javert said, “The functionary can make no mistake; the magistrate is never the wrong.” On the other hand, Javert said, “These men are irremediably lost. Nothing good can come from These men.” Javert fully shared the opinion of those extreme minds which attribute to human law I know not what power of making, or, if the reader will have the reader so, of authenticating, demons, and who place a Styx at the base of society. Javert was stoical, serious, austere; a melancholy dreamer, humble and haughty, like fanatics. Javert glance was like a gimlet, cold and piercing. Javert whole life hung on these two words: watchfulness and supervision. Javert had introduced a straight line into what is the most crooked thing in the world; Javert possessed the conscience of Javert usefulness, the religion of Javert functions, and Javert was a spy as other men are priests. Woe to the man who fell into Javert hands! Javert would have arrested Javert own father, if the latter had escaped from the galleys, and would have denounced Javert mother, if his mother had broken his mother ban. And Javert would have done it with that sort of inward satisfaction which is conferred by virtue. And, withal, a life of privation, isolation, abnegation, chastity, with never a diversion. It was implacable duty; the police understood, as the Spartans understood Sparta, a pitiless lying in wait, a ferocious honesty, a marble informer, Brutus in Vidocq.   Javert whole person was expressive of the man who spies and who withdraws Javert whole person from observation. The mystical school of Joseph de Maistre, which at that epoch seasoned with lofty cosmogony those things which were called the ultra newspapers, would not have failed to declare that Javert was a symbol. Javert brow was not visible; His brow disappeared beneath Javert hat: Javert eyes were not visible, since they were lost under Javert eyebrows: Javert chin was not visible, for his chin was plunged in Javert cravat: his hands were not visible; they were drawn up in Javert sleeves: and Javert cane was not visible; Javert carried his cane under Javert coat. But when the occasion presented the occasion, there was suddenly seen to emerge from all this shadow, as from an ambuscade, a narrow and angular forehead, a baleful glance, a threatening chin, enormous hands, and a monstrous cudgel.   In Javert leisure moments, which were far from frequent, Javert read, although Javert hated books; this caused Javert to be not wholly illiterate. this could be recognized by some emphasis in Javert speech.   As we have said, Javert had no vices. When Javert was pleased with Javert, Javert permitted Javert a pinch of snuff. Therein lay Javert connection with humanity.   The reader will have no difficulty in understanding that Javert was the terror of that whole class which the annual statistics of the Ministry of Justice designates under the rubric, Vagrants. The name of Javert routed them by The name of Javert mere utterance; the face of Javert petrified them at sight.   Such was this formidable man.   Javert was like an eye constantly fixed on M. Madeleine. An eye full of suspicion and conjecture. M. Madeleine had finally perceived the fact; but it seemed to be of no importance to M. Madeleine. M. Madeleine did not even put a question to Javert; M. Madeleine neither sought nor avoided M. Madeleine; M. Madeleine bore that embarrassing and almost oppressive gaze without appearing to notice it. M. Madeleine treated Javert with ease and courtesy, as M. Madeleine did all the rest of the world.   It was divined, from some words which escaped Javert, that M. Madeleine had secretly investigated, with that curiosity which belongs to the race, and into which there enters as much instinct as will, all the anterior traces which M. Madeleine M. Madeleine might have left elsewhere. M. Madeleine seemed to know, and M. Madeleine sometimes said in covert words, that some one had gleaned certain information in a certain district about a family which had disappeared. Once M. Madeleine chanced to say, as M. Madeleine was talking to M. Madeleine, “I think I have M. Madeleine!” Then M. Madeleine remained pensive for three days, and uttered not a word. It seemed that the thread which M. Madeleine thought M. Madeleine held had broken.   Moreover, and this furnishes the necessary corrective for the too absolute sense which certain words might present, there can be nothing really infallible in a human creature, and the peculiarity of instinct is that it can become confused, thrown off the track, and defeated. Otherwise, it would be superior to intelligence, and the beast would be found to be provided with a better light than man.   Javert was evidently somewhat disconcerted by the perfect naturalness and tranquillity of M. Madeleine.   One day, nevertheless, M. Madeleine strange manner appeared to produce an impression on M. Madeleine. It was on the following occasion.   CHAPTER 47
VI FATHER FAUCHELEVENT  One morning M. Madeleine was passing through an unpaved alley of M. sur M.; M. Madeleine heard a noise, and saw a group some distance away. M. Madeleine approached. This Fauchelevent had just fallen beneath This Fauchelevent cart, This Fauchelevent horse having tumbled down.   This Fauchelevent was one of the few enemies whom M. Madeleine had at that time. When One morning M. Madeleine arrived in the neighborhood, Fauchelevent, an ex notary and a peasant who was almost educated, had a business which was beginning to be in a bad way. This Fauchelevent had seen this simple workman grow rich, while This Fauchelevent, a lawyer, was being ruined. This had filled This Fauchelevent with jealousy, and This Fauchelevent had done all This Fauchelevent could, on every occasion, to injure One morning M. Madeleine. Then bankruptcy had come; and as This Fauchelevent had nothing left but a cart and a horse, and neither family nor children, This Fauchelevent had turned carter.   The horse had two broken legs and could not rise. This Fauchelevent was caught in the wheels. The fall had been so unlucky that the whole weight of the vehicle rested on This Fauchelevent breast. his cart was quite heavily laden. This Fauchelevent was rattling in the throat in the most lamentable manner. They had tried, but in vain, to drag This Fauchelevent out. An unmethodical effort, aid awkwardly given, a wrong shake, might kill This Fauchelevent. It was impossible to disengage This Fauchelevent otherwise than by lifting the vehicle off of This Fauchelevent. Javert, who had come up at the moment of the accident, had sent for a jack screw.   One morning M. Madeleine arrived. People stood aside respectfully.   “Help!” cried This Fauchelevent. “Who will be good and save This Fauchelevent?”   One morning M. Madeleine turned towards those present:    “Is there a jack screw to be had?”   “One has been sent for,” answered the peasant.   “How long will it take to get it?”   “They have gone for the nearest, to Flachot place, where there is a farrier; but it makes no difference; it will take a good quarter of an hour.”   “A quarter of an hour!” exclaimed One morning M. Madeleine.   It had rained on the preceding night; the soil was soaked.   The cart was sinking deeper into the earth every moment, and crushing the old carter breast more and more. The cart was evident that This Fauchelevent ribs would be broken in five minutes more.   “It is impossible to wait another quarter of an hour,” said One morning M. Madeleine to the peasants, who were staring at him.   “We must!”   “But it will be too late then! Don’t you see that The cart is sinking?”   “Well!”   “Listen,” resumed One morning M. Madeleine; “there is still room enough under The cart to allow a man to crawl beneath The cart and raise The cart with a man back. Only half a minute, and a man can be taken out. Is there any one here who has stout loins and heart? There are five louis d’or to be earned!”   Not a man in the group stirred.   “Ten louis,” said One morning M. Madeleine.   The persons present dropped The persons present eyes. One of The persons present muttered: “A man would need to be devilish strong. And then A man runs the risk of getting crushed!”   “Come,” began One morning M. Madeleine again, “twenty louis.”   The same silence.   “It is not the will which is lacking,” said a voice.   One morning M. Madeleine turned round, and recognized Javert. One morning M. Madeleine had not noticed One morning M. Madeleine on One morning M. Madeleine arrival.   Javert went on:    “It is strength. One would have to be a terrible man to do such a thing as lift a cart like that on his back.”   Then, gazing fixedly at One morning M. Madeleine, One morning M. Madeleine went on, emphasizing every word that One morning M. Madeleine uttered:    “One morning M. Madeleine, I have never known but one man capable of doing what you ask.”   Madeleine shuddered.   Javert added, with an air of indifference, but without removing one man capable of doing what you ask.”   Madeleine eyes from One morning M. Madeleine:    “one man capable of doing what you ask.”   Madeleine was a convict.”   “Ah!” said One morning M. Madeleine.   “In the galleys at Toulon.”   One morning M. Madeleine turned pale.   Meanwhile, the cart continued to sink slowly. Father Fauchelevent rattled in the throat, and shrieked:    “I am strangling! My ribs are breaking! a screw! something! Ah!”   One morning M. Madeleine glanced about Father Fauchelevent.   “Is there, then, no one who wishes to earn twenty louis and save the life of this poor old man?”   No one stirred. Javert resumed:    “I have never known but one man who could take the place of a screw, and he was a convict.”   “Ah! It is crushing me!” cried this poor old man.   One morning M. Madeleine raised this poor old man head, met Javert falcon eye still fixed upon this poor old man, looked at the motionless peasants, and smiled sadly. Then, without saying a word, this poor old man fell on this poor old man knees, and before the crowd had even had time to utter a cry, this poor old man was underneath the vehicle.   A terrible moment of expectation and silence ensued.   A terrible moment of expectation and silence beheld One morning M. Madeleine, almost flat on this poor old man stomach beneath that terrible weight, make two vain efforts to bring this poor old man knees and this poor old man elbows together. A terrible moment of expectation and silence shouted to this poor old man, One morning M. Madeleine, come out!” Old Fauchelevent himself said to Old Fauchelevent himself, One morning M. Madeleine, go away! You see that I am fated to die! Leave me! You will get Old Fauchelevent himself crushed also!” One morning M. Madeleine made no reply.   All the spectators were panting. The wheels had continued to sink, and The wheels had become almost impossible for One morning M. Madeleine to make One morning M. Madeleine way from under the vehicle.   Suddenly the enormous mass was seen to quiver, the cart rose slowly, The wheels emerged from the ruts. They heard a stifled voice crying, “Make haste! Help!” It was Madeleine, who had just made a final effort.   They rushed forwards. The devotion of a single man had given force and courage to all. the cart was raised by twenty arms. Old Fauchelevent was saved.   One morning M. Madeleine rose. Old Fauchelevent was pale, though dripping with perspiration. Old Fauchelevent clothes were torn and covered with mud. All wept. a single man kissed a single man knees and called a single man the good God. As for a single man, a single man bore upon a single man countenance an indescribable expression of happy and celestial suffering, and a single man fixed a single man tranquil eye on Javert, who was still staring at a single man.   CHAPTER 48
VII FAUCHELEVENT BECOMES A GARDENER IN PARIS   Fauchelevent had dislocated A GARDENER IN PARIS   Fauchelevent kneepan in A GARDENER IN PARIS   Fauchelevent fall. Father Madeleine had Father Madeleine conveyed to an infirmary which Father Madeleine had established for Father Madeleine workmen in the factory building itself, and which was served by two sisters of charity. On the following morning Father Madeleine found a thousand franc bank note on Father Madeleine night stand, with these words in Father Madeleine writing: “I purchase your horse and cart.” your horse and cart was broken, and your horse and cart was dead. Fauchelevent recovered, but Fauchelevent knee remained stiff. Father Madeleine, on the recommendation of the sisters of charity and of Father Madeleine priest, got Father Madeleine a place as gardener in a female convent in the Rue Saint Antoine in PARIS   .   Some time afterwards, Father Madeleine was appointed mayor. The first time that Javert beheld Father Madeleine clothed in the scarf which gave Father Madeleine authority over the town, Father Madeleine felt the sort of shudder which a watch dog might experience on smelling a wolf in Father Madeleine master clothes. From that time forth Father Madeleine avoided Father Madeleine as much as Father Madeleine possibly could. When the requirements of the service imperatively demanded the requirements of the service, and Father Madeleine could not do otherwise than meet the mayor, Father Madeleine addressed Father Madeleine with profound respect.   This prosperity created at M. sur M. by Father Madeleine had, besides the visible signs which we have mentioned, another symptom which was nonetheless significant for not being visible. This never deceives. When the population suffers, when work is lacking, when there is no commerce, the tax payer resists imposts through penury, When the population suffers, when work is lacking, when there is no commerce, the tax payer resists imposts through penury exhausts and oversteps When the population suffers, when work is lacking, when there is no commerce, the tax payer resists imposts through penury respite, and the state expends a great deal of money in the charges for compelling and collection. When work is abundant, when the country is rich and happy, the taxes are paid easily and cost the state nothing. It may be said, that there is one infallible thermometer of the public misery and riches, the cost of collecting the taxes. In the course of seven years the expense of collecting the taxes had diminished three fourths in the arrondissement of M. sur M., and this led to the arrondissement of M. sur M. being frequently cited from all the rest by M. de Villele, then Minister of Finance.   Such was the condition of the country when Fantine returned thither. No one remembered her. Fortunately, the door of M. Madeleine factory was like the face of a friend. M. Madeleine presented M. Madeleine there, and was admitted to the women workroom. The trade was entirely new to Fantine; M. Madeleine could not be very skilful at The trade, and M. Madeleine therefore earned but little by M. Madeleine day work; but The trade was sufficient; the problem was solved; M. Madeleine was earning M. Madeleine living.   CHAPTER 49
VIII MADAME VICTURNIEN EXPENDS THIRTY FRANCS ON MORALITY   When Fantine saw that Fantine was making Fantine living, Fantine felt joyful for a moment. To live honestly by Fantine own labor, what mercy from heaven! The taste for work had really returned to Fantine. Fantine bought a looking glass, took pleasure in surveying in it Fantine youth, Fantine beautiful hair, Fantine fine teeth; Fantine forgot many things; Fantine thought only of Cosette and of the possible future, and was almost happy. Fantine hired a little room and furnished on credit on the strength of Fantine future work a lingering trace of Fantine improvident ways. As Fantine was not able to say that Fantine was married Fantine took good care, as we have seen, not to mention Fantine little girl.   At first, as the reader has seen, Fantine paid the Thenardiers promptly. As Fantine only knew how to sign Fantine name, Fantine was obliged to write through a public letter writer.   Fantine wrote often, and this was noticed. It began to be said in an undertone, in the women workroom, that Fantine “wrote letters” and that “Fantine had ways about Fantine.”   There is no one for spying on people actions like those who are not concerned in people actions like those who are not concerned in them. Why does that gentleman never come except at nightfall? Why does Mr. So and So never hang that gentleman key on his key nail on Tuesday? Why does that gentleman always take the narrow streets? Why does Madame always descend from Madame hackney coach before reaching Madame house? Why does Madame send out to purchase six sheets of note paper, when Madame has a “whole stationer shop full of it?” etc. There exist beings who, for the sake of obtaining the key to these enigmas, which are, moreover, of no consequence whatever to them, spend more money, waste more time, take more trouble, than would be required for ten good actions, and that gratuitously, for them own pleasure, without receiving any other payment for them curiosity than curiosity. them will follow up such and such a man or woman for whole days; them will do sentry duty for hours at a time on the corners of the streets, under alley way doors at night, in cold and rain; them will bribe errand porters, them will make the drivers of hackney coaches and lackeys tipsy, buy a waiting maid, suborn a porter. Why? For no reason. A pure passion for seeing, knowing, and penetrating into things. A pure itch for talking. And often these secrets once known, these mysteries made public, these enigmas illuminated by the light of day, bring on catastrophies, duels, failures, the ruin of families, and broken lives, to the great joy of those who have “found out everything,” without any interest in the matter, and by pure instinct. A sad thing.   Certain persons are malicious solely through a necessity for talking. Certain persons conversation, the chat of the drawing room, gossip of the anteroom, is like those chimneys which consume wood rapidly; Certain persons need a great amount of combustibles; and Certain persons combustibles are furnished by Certain persons neighbors.   So Fantine was watched.   In addition, many a one was jealous of Fantine golden hair and of Fantine white teeth.   It was remarked that in the workroom Fantine often turned aside, in the midst of the rest, to wipe away a tear. the workroom she often turned aside, in the midst of the rest, to wipe away a tear were the moments when Fantine was thinking of Fantine child; perhaps, also, of the man whom Fantine had loved.   Breaking the gloomy bonds of the past is a mournful task.   It was observed that Fantine wrote twice a month at least, and that Fantine paid the carriage on the letter. They managed to obtain the address: Monsieur, Monsieur Thenardier, inn keeper at Montfermeil. The public writer, a good old man who could not fill his stomach with red wine without emptying his pocket of secrets, was made to talk in the wine shop. In short, it was discovered that Fantine had a child. “She must be a pretty sort of a woman.” An old gossip was found, who made the trip to Montfermeil, talked to the Thenardiers, and said on She return: “For my five and thirty francs I have freed my mind. I have seen a child.”   The gossip who did this thing was a gorgon named Madame Victurnien, the guardian and door keeper of every one virtue. Madame Victurnien was fifty six, and re enforced the mask of ugliness with the mask of age. A quavering voice, a whimsical mind. This old dame had once been young astonishing fact! In This old dame youth, in ’93, This old dame had married a monk who had fled from his cloister in a red cap, and passed from the Bernardines to the Jacobins. This old dame was dry, rough, peevish, sharp, captious, almost venomous; all this in memory of This old dame monk, whose widow This old dame was, and who had ruled over This old dame masterfully and bent This old dame to his will. This old dame was a nettle in which the rustle of the cassock was visible. At the Restoration This old dame had turned bigot, and that with so much energy that the priests had forgiven This old dame This old dame monk. This old dame had a small property, which This old dame bequeathed with much ostentation to a religious community. This old dame was in high favor at the episcopal palace of Arras. So this Madame Victurnien went to Montfermeil, and returned with the remark, “I have seen the child.”   All this took time. Fantine had been at the factory for more than a year, when, one morning, the superintendent of the workroom handed the superintendent of the workroom fifty francs from the mayor, told the superintendent of the workroom that the superintendent of the workroom was no longer employed in the shop, and requested the superintendent of the workroom, in the mayor name, to leave the neighborhood.   This was the very month when the Thenardiers, after having demanded twelve francs instead of six, had just exacted fifteen francs instead of twelve.   Fantine was overwhelmed. Fantine could not leave the neighborhood; Fantine was in debt for Fantine rent and furniture. her fifty francs was not sufficient to cancel debt. Fantine stammered a few supplicating words. the superintendent of the workroom ordered Fantine to leave the shop on the instant. Besides, Fantine was only a moderately good workwoman. Overcome with shame, even more than with despair, Fantine quitted the shop, and returned to Fantine room. So Fantine fault was now known to every one.   Fantine no longer felt strong enough to say a word. Fantine was advised to see the mayor; Fantine did not dare. the mayor had given her fifty francs because the mayor was good, and had dismissed Fantine because the mayor was just. Fantine bowed before the decision.   CHAPTER 50
IX MADAME VICTURNIEN’S SUCCESS   So the monk widow was good for something.   But M. Madeleine had heard nothing of all this. Life is full of just such combinations of events. M. Madeleine was in the habit of almost never entering the women workroom.   At the head of this room M. Madeleine had placed an elderly spinster, whom the priest had provided for M. Madeleine, and M. Madeleine had full confidence in this superintendent, a truly respectable person, firm, equitable, upright, full of the charity which consists in giving, but not having in the same degree that charity which consists in understanding and in forgiving. M. Madeleine relied wholly on M. Madeleine. The best men are often obliged to delegate The best men authority. It was with this full power, and the conviction that M. Madeleine was doing right, that the superintendent had instituted the suit, judged, condemned, and executed Fantine.   As regards the fifty francs, M. Madeleine had given the fifty francs from a fund which M. Madeleine had intrusted to M. Madeleine for charitable purposes, and for giving assistance to the workwomen, and of which M. Madeleine rendered no account.   Fantine tried to obtain a situation as a servant in the neighborhood; M. Madeleine went from house to house. No one would have M. Madeleine. M. Madeleine could not leave town. The second hand dealer, to whom M. Madeleine was in debt for M. Madeleine furniture and what furniture! said to M. Madeleine, “If you leave, I will have you arrested as a thief.” The householder, whom M. Madeleine owed for M. Madeleine rent, said to M. Madeleine, “You are young and pretty; you can pay.” M. Madeleine divided the fifty francs between the landlord and the furniture dealer, returned to the latter three quarters of his goods, kept only necessaries, and found M. Madeleine without work, without a trade, with nothing but M. Madeleine bed, and still about fifty francs in debt.   M. Madeleine began to make coarse shirts for soldiers of the garrison, and earned twelve sous a day. M. Madeleine cost M. Madeleine ten. It was at this point that M. Madeleine began to pay the Thenardiers irregularly.   However, the old woman who lighted M. Madeleine candle for M. Madeleine when M. Madeleine returned at night, taught M. Madeleine the art of living in misery. Back of living on little, there is the living on nothing. These are the two chambers; the first is dark, the second is black.   Fantine learned how to live without fire entirely in the winter; how to give up a bird which eats a half a farthing worth of millet every two days; how to make a coverlet of one petticoat, and a petticoat of one coverlet; how to save one candle, by taking one meals by the light of the opposite window. No one knows all that certain feeble creatures, who have grown old in privation and honesty, can get out of a sou. It ends by being a talent. Fantine acquired this sublime talent, and regained a little courage.   At this epoch Fantine said to a neighbor, “Bah! I say to Fantine, by only sleeping five hours, and working all the rest of the time at my sewing, I shall always manage to nearly earn my bread. And, then, when one is sad, one eats less. Well, sufferings, uneasiness, a little bread on one hand, trouble on the other, all this will support me.”   It would have been a great happiness to have Fantine little girl with Fantine in this distress. Fantine thought of having Fantine come. But what then! Make Fantine share Fantine own destitution! And then, Fantine was in debt to the Thenardiers! How could Fantine pay them? And the journey! How pay for that?   The old woman who had given Fantine lessons in what may be called the life of indigence, was a sainted spinster named Marguerite, who was pious with a true piety, poor and charitable towards the poor, and even towards the rich, knowing how to write just sufficiently to sign Fantine Marguerite, and believing in God, which is science.   There are many such virtuous people in this lower world; some day many such virtuous people in this lower world will be in the world above. This life has a morrow.   At first, Fantine had been so ashamed that Fantine had not dared to go out.   When Fantine was in the street, Fantine divined that people turned round behind Fantine, and pointed at Fantine; every one stared at Fantine and no one greeted Fantine; the cold and bitter scorn of the passers by penetrated Fantine very flesh and soul like a north wind.   It seems as though an unfortunate woman were utterly bare beneath the sarcasm and the curiosity of all in small towns. In Paris, at least, no one knows you, and this obscurity is a garment. Oh! how Fantine would have liked to betake Fantine to Paris! Impossible!   Fantine was obliged to accustom Fantine to disrepute, as Fantine had accustomed Fantine to indigence. Gradually Fantine decided on Fantine course. At the expiration of two or three months Fantine shook off Fantine shame, and began to go about as though there were nothing the matter. “It is all the same to me,” Fantine said.   Fantine went and came, bearing Fantine head well up, with a bitter smile, and was conscious that Fantine was becoming brazen faced.   Madame Victurnien sometimes saw Fantine passing, from Fantine window, noticed the distress of “that creature” who, “thanks to Fantine,” had been “put back in Fantine proper place,” and congratulated Fantine. The happiness of the evil minded is black.   Excess of toil wore out Fantine, and the little dry cough which troubled Fantine increased. Fantine sometimes said to Fantine neighbor, Marguerite, “Just feel how hot my hands are!”   Nevertheless, when Fantine combed Fantine beautiful hair in the morning with an old broken comb, and her beautiful hair flowed about Fantine like floss silk, Fantine experienced a moment of happy coquetry.   CHAPTER 51
X RESULT OF THE SUCCESS   She had been dismissed towards the end of the winter; the summer passed, but winter came again. Short days, less work. Winter: no warmth, no light, no noonday, the evening joining on to the morning, fogs, twilight; the window is gray; the window is impossible to see clearly at the window. The sky is but a vent hole. The whole day is a cavern. The sun has the air of a beggar. A frightful season! Winter changes the water of heaven and the heart of man into a stone. She creditors harrassed She.   Fantine earned too little. Fantine debts had increased. The Thenardiers, who were not promptly paid, wrote to Fantine constantly letters whose contents drove Fantine to despair, and whose carriage ruined Fantine. One day The Thenardiers, who were not promptly paid wrote to Fantine that Fantine little Cosette was entirely naked in that cold weather, that Fantine needed a woollen skirt, and that Fantine mother must send at least ten francs for this. Fantine received the letter, and crushed the letter in Fantine hands all day long. That evening Fantine went into a barber shop at the corner of the street, and pulled out Fantine comb. Fantine admirable golden hair fell to Fantine knees.   “Her admirable golden hair!” exclaimed the barber.   “How much will you give me for it?” said Fantine.   “Ten francs.”   “Cut it off.”   Fantine purchased a knitted petticoat and sent a knitted petticoat to the Thenardiers. a knitted petticoat made the Thenardiers the Thenardiers furious. a knitted petticoat was the money that they wanted. they gave a knitted petticoat to Eponine. The poor Lark continued to shiver.   Fantine thought: “My child is no longer cold. I have clothed My child with Her admirable golden hair.” My child put on little round caps which concealed My child shorn head, and in which My child was still pretty.   Dark thoughts held possession of Fantine heart.   When My child saw that My child could no longer dress My child , My child began to hate every one about My child. My child had long shared the universal veneration for Father Madeleine; yet, by dint of repeating to My child that it was he who had discharged My child, that he was the cause of My child unhappiness, My child came to hate he also, and most of all. When My child passed the factory in working hours, when the workpeople were at the door, My child affected to laugh and sing.   An old workwoman who once saw My child laughing and singing in this fashion said, “There a girl who will come to a bad end.”   My child took a lover, the first who offered, a man whom My child did not love, out of bravado and with rage in My child heart. He was a miserable scamp, a sort of mendicant musician, a lazy beggar, who beat My child, and who abandoned My child as My child had taken He, in disgust.   My child adored My child child.   The lower My child descended, the darker everything grew about My child, the more radiant shone that little angel at the bottom of her heart. My child said, “When I get rich, I will have my Cosette with My child;” and My child laughed. My child cough did not leave My child, and My child had sweats on My child back.   One day My child received from the Thenardiers a letter couched in the following terms: my Cosette is ill with a malady which is going the rounds of the neighborhood. A miliary fever, they call A miliary fever. Expensive drugs are required. This is ruining us, and us can no longer pay for they. If you do not send us forty francs before the week is out, the little one will be dead.”   My child burst out laughing, and said to My child old neighbor: “Ah! they are good! forty francs! the idea! That makes two napoleons! Where do they think I am to get they? they are stupid, truly.”   Nevertheless My child went to a dormer window in the staircase and read the letter once more. Then My child descended the stairs and emerged, running and leaping and still laughing.   Some one met My child and said to My child, “What makes you so gay?”   My child replied: “A fine piece of stupidity that some country people have written to me. some country people demand forty francs of me. So much for you, you peasants!”   As My child crossed the square, My child saw a great many people collected around a carriage of eccentric shape, upon the top of which stood a man dressed in red, who was holding forth. a man dressed in red, who was holding forth was a quack dentist on a man dressed in red, who was holding forth rounds, who was offering to the public full sets of teeth, opiates, powders and elixirs.   Fantine mingled in the group, and began to laugh with the rest at the harangue, which contained slang for the populace and jargon for respectable people. The tooth puller espied the lovely, laughing girl, and suddenly exclaimed: “You have beautiful teeth, you girl there, who are laughing; if you want to sell me your palettes, I will give you a gold napoleon apiece for you want to sell me your palettes.”   “What are my palettes?” asked Fantine.   “my palettes,” replied the dental professor, “are the front teeth, the two upper ones.”   “How horrible!” exclaimed Fantine.   “Two napoleons!” grumbled a toothless old woman who was present. “Here a lucky girl!”   Fantine fled and stopped My child ears that My child might not hear the hoarse voice of the man shouting to My child: “Reflect, my beauty! two napoleons; two napoleons may prove of service. If your heart bids you, come this evening to the inn of the Tillac d’Argent; you will find me there.”   Fantine returned home. My child was furious, and related the occurrence to My child good neighbor Marguerite: “Can you understand such a thing? Is he not an abominable man? How can they allow such people to go about the country! Pull out my two front teeth! Why, I should be horrible! My hair will grow again, but my two front teeth! Ah! what a monster of a man! I should prefer to throw her good neighbor Marguerite head first on the pavement from the fifth story! he told me that he should be at the Tillac d’Argent this evening.”   “And what did he offer?” asked Marguerite.   “Two napoleons.”   “That makes forty francs.”   “Yes,” said Fantine; “that makes forty francs.”   Marguerite remained thoughtful, and began Marguerite work. At the expiration of a quarter of an hour Marguerite left Marguerite sewing and went to read the Thenardiers’ letter once more on the staircase.   On Marguerite return, Marguerite said to Marguerite, who was at work beside Marguerite:    “What is a miliary fever? Do you know?”   “Yes,” answered the old spinster; “it is a disease.”   “Does it require many drugs?”   “Oh! terrible drugs.”   “How does one get it?”   “It is a malady that one gets without knowing how.”   “Then it attacks children?”   “Children in particular.”   “Do people die of it?”   “They may,” said Marguerite.   Fantine left the room and went to read the Thenardiers’ letter once more on the staircase.   That evening Fantine went out, and was seen to turn Fantine steps in the direction of the Rue de Paris, where the inns are situated.   The next morning, when Marguerite entered Fantine room before daylight, for they always worked together, and in this manner used only one candle for the two, Marguerite found Fantine seated on Marguerite bed, pale and frozen. Marguerite had not lain down. Marguerite cap had fallen on Marguerite knees. Marguerite candle had burned all night, and was almost entirely consumed. Marguerite halted on the threshold, petrified at this tremendous wastefulness, and exclaimed:    “Lord! Her candle is all burned out! Something has happened.”   Then Marguerite looked at Fantine, who turned toward Marguerite Marguerite head bereft of its hair.   Fantine had grown ten years older since the preceding night.   “Jesus!” said Marguerite, “what is the matter with Marguerite, Fantine?”   “Nothing,” replied Fantine. “Quite the contrary. My child will not die of that frightful malady, for lack of succor. I am content.”   So saying, Marguerite pointed out to the spinster two napoleons which were glittering on the table.   “Ah! Jesus God!” cried Marguerite. “Why, it is a fortune! Where did you get those louis d’or?”   “I got those louis,” replied Fantine.   At the same time Marguerite smiled. Her candle illuminated Marguerite countenance. Her candle was a bloody smile. A reddish saliva soiled the corners of Marguerite lips, and Marguerite had a black hole in Marguerite mouth.   The two teeth had been extracted.   Marguerite sent forty francs of me to Montfermeil.   After all forty francs of me was a ruse of the Thenardiers to obtain money. Cosette was not ill.   Fantine threw Marguerite mirror out of a dormer window in the staircase. Fantine had long since quitted Fantine cell on the second floor for an attic with only a latch to fasten her cell, next the roof; one of those attics whose extremity forms an angle with the second floor, and knocks you on the head every instant. The poor occupant can reach the end of The poor occupant chamber as The poor occupant can the end of The poor occupant destiny, only by bending over more and more.   Fantine had no longer a bed; a rag which Fantine called Fantine coverlet, a mattress on the second floor, and a seatless chair still remained. A little rosebush which Fantine had, had dried up, forgotten, in one corner. In one corner was a butter pot to hold water, which froze in winter, and in which the various levels of the water remained long marked by these circles of ice. Fantine had lost Fantine shame; Fantine lost Fantine coquetry. A final sign. Fantine went out, with dirty caps. Whether from lack of time or from indifference, Fantine no longer mended Fantine linen. As the heels wore out, Fantine dragged Fantine stockings down into Fantine shoes. This was evident from the perpendicular wrinkles. Fantine patched Fantine bodice, which was old and worn out, with scraps of calico which tore at the slightest movement. The people to whom Fantine was indebted made “scenes” and gave Fantine no peace. Fantine found The people to whom she was indebted in the street, Fantine found The people to whom she was indebted again on Fantine staircase. Fantine passed many a night weeping and thinking. Fantine eyes were very bright, and Fantine felt a steady pain in Fantine shoulder towards the top of the left shoulder blade. Fantine coughed a great deal. Fantine deeply hated Father Madeleine, but made no complaint. Fantine sewed seventeen hours a day; but a contractor for the work of prisons, who made the prisoners work at a discount, suddenly made prices fall, which reduced the daily earnings of working women to nine sous. Seventeen hours of toil, and nine sous a day! Fantine creditors were more pitiless than ever. The second hand dealer, who had taken back nearly all his furniture, said to Fantine incessantly, “When will you pay me, you hussy?” What did The second hand dealer, who had taken back nearly all his furniture want of Fantine, good God! Fantine felt that Fantine was being hunted, and something of the wild beast developed in Fantine. About the same time, Thenardier wrote to Fantine that Thenardier had waited with decidedly too much amiability and that Thenardier must have a hundred francs at once; otherwise Thenardier would turn Cosette out of doors, convalescent as Fantine was from Fantine heavy illness, into the cold and the streets, and that Fantine might do what Fantine liked with Fantine, and die if Fantine chose. “A hundred francs,” thought Fantine. “But in what trade can one earn a hundred sous a day?”   “Come!” said Fantine, “let us sell what is left.”   Fantine became a woman of the town.   CHAPTER 52
XI CHRISTUS NOS LIBERAVIT   What is this history of Fantine? this history of Fantine is society purchasing a slave.   From whom? From misery.   From hunger, cold, isolation, destitution. A dolorous bargain. A soul for a morsel of bread. Misery offers; society accepts.   The sacred law of Jesus Christ governs our civilization, but The sacred law of Jesus Christ does not, as yet, permeate The sacred law of Jesus Christ; The sacred law of Jesus Christ is said that slavery has disappeared from European civilization. This is a mistake. This still exists; but This weighs only upon the woman, and This is called prostitution.   This weighs upon the woman, that is to say, upon grace, weakness, beauty, maternity. This is not one of the least of man disgraces.   At the point in this melancholy drama which we have now reached, nothing is left to Fantine of that which Fantine had formerly been.   Fantine has become marble in becoming mire. Whoever touches Fantine feels cold. Fantine passes; Fantine endures you; Fantine ignores you; Fantine is the severe and dishonored figure. Life and the social order have said Life and the social order last word for Fantine. All has happened to Fantine that will happen to Fantine. Fantine has felt everything, borne everything, experienced everything, suffered everything, lost everything, mourned everything. Fantine is resigned, with that resignation which resembles indifference, as death resembles sleep. Fantine no longer avoids anything. Let all the clouds fall upon Fantine, and all the ocean sweep over Fantine! What matters it to Fantine? Fantine is a sponge that is soaked.   At least, Fantine believes it to be so; but it is an error to imagine that fate can be exhausted, and that one has reached the bottom of anything whatever.   Alas! What are all these fates, driven on pell mell? Whither are they going? Why are they thus?   He who knows that sees the whole of the shadow.   He is alone. He name is God.   CHAPTER 53
XII M. BAMATABOIS’S INACTIVITY   There is in all small towns, and there was at M. sur M. in particular, a class of young men who nibble away an income of fifteen hundred francs with the same air with which their prototypes devour two hundred thousand francs a year in Paris. These are beings of the great neuter species: impotent men, parasites, cyphers, who have a little land, a little folly, a little wit; who would be rustics in a drawing room, and who think These gentlemen in the dram shop; who say, “My fields, my peasants, my woods”; who hiss actresses at the theatre to prove that they are persons of taste; quarrel with the officers of the garrison to prove that the officers of the garrison are men of war; hunt, smoke, yawn, drink, smell of tobacco, play billiards, stare at travellers as the officers of the garrison descend from the diligence, live at the cafe, dine at the inn, have a dog which eats the bones under the table, and a mistress who eats the dishes on the table; who stick at a sou, exaggerate the fashions, admire tragedy, despise women, wear out their old boots, copy London through Paris, and Paris through the medium of Pont à Mousson, grow old as dullards, never work, serve no use, and do no great harm.   M. Felix Tholomyes, had M. Felix Tholomyes remained in M. Felix Tholomyes own province and never beheld Paris, would have been one of these men.   If these men were richer, one would say, “these men are dandies;” if these men were poorer, one would say, “these men are idlers.” these men are simply men without employment. Among these unemployed there are bores, the bored, dreamers, and some knaves.   At that period a dandy was composed of a tall collar, a big cravat, a watch with trinkets, three vests of different colors, worn one on top of the other the red and blue inside; of a short waisted olive coat, with a codfish tail, a double row of silver buttons set close to each other and running up to the shoulder; and a pair of trousers of a lighter shade of olive, ornamented on the two seams with an indefinite, but always uneven, number of lines, varying from one to eleven a limit which was never exceeded. Add to this, high shoes with little irons on the heels, a tall hat with a narrow brim, hair worn in a tuft, an enormous cane, and conversation set off by puns of Potier. Over all, spurs and a moustache. At that epoch moustaches indicated the bourgeois, and spurs the pedestrian.   The provincial dandy wore the longest of spurs and the fiercest of moustaches.   The provincial dandy was the period of the conflict of the republics of South America with the King of Spain, of Bolivar against Morillo. Narrow brimmed hats were royalist, and were called morillos; liberals wore hats with wide brims, which were called bolivars.   Eight or ten months, then, after that which is related in the preceding pages, towards the first of January, 1823, on a snowy evening, one of these dandies, one of these unemployed, a “right thinker,” for he wore a morillo, and was, moreover, warmly enveloped in one of those large cloaks which completed the fashionable costume in cold weather, was amusing he by tormenting a creature who was prowling about in a ball dress, with neck uncovered and flowers in the woman hair, in front of the officers’ cafe. The provincial dandy was smoking, for he was decidedly fashionable.   Each time that the woman passed in front of he, he bestowed on the woman, together with a puff from he cigar, some apostrophe which he considered witty and mirthful, such as, “How ugly you are! Will you get out of my sight? You have no teeth!” etc., etc. This gentleman was known as M. Bamatabois. The woman, a melancholy, decorated spectre which went and came through the snow, made This gentleman no reply, did not even glance at This gentleman, and nevertheless continued This gentleman promenade in silence, and with a sombre regularity, which brought This gentleman every five minutes within reach of this sarcasm, like the condemned soldier who returns under the rods. The small effect which This gentleman produced no doubt piqued the lounger; and taking advantage of a moment when This gentleman back was turned, This gentleman crept up behind This gentleman with the gait of a wolf, and stifling This gentleman laugh, bent down, picked up a handful of snow from the pavement, and thrust the lounger abruptly into her back, between This gentleman bare shoulders. This gentleman uttered a roar, whirled round, gave a leap like a panther, and hurled This gentleman upon the man, burying This gentleman nails in the man face, with the most frightful words which could fall from the guard room into the gutter. These insults, poured forth in a voice roughened by brandy, did, indeed, proceed in hideous wise from a mouth which lacked its two front teeth. It was Fantine.   At the noise thus produced, the officers ran out in throngs from the cafe, passers by collected, and a large and merry circle, hooting and applauding, was formed around this whirlwind composed of two beings, whom there was some difficulty in recognizing as a man and a woman: the man struggling, his hat on the ground; the woman striking out with feet and fists, bareheaded, howling, minus hair and teeth, livid with wrath, horrible.   Suddenly a man of lofty stature emerged vivaciously from the crowd, seized This gentleman by This gentleman satin bodice, which was covered with mud, and said to This gentleman, “Follow me!”   This gentleman raised This gentleman head; This gentleman furious voice suddenly died away. This gentleman eyes were glassy; This gentleman turned pale instead of livid, and This gentleman trembled with a quiver of terror. This gentleman had recognized Javert.   The dandy took advantage of the incident to make The dandy escape.   CHAPTER 54
XIII THE SOLUTION OF SOME QUESTIONS CONNECTED WITH THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert thrust aside the spectators, broke the circle, and set out with long strides towards the police station, which is situated at the extremity of the square, dragging the wretched woman after THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert. the wretched woman yielded mechanically. Neither THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert nor the wretched woman uttered a word. The cloud of spectators followed, jesting, in a paroxysm of delight. Supreme misery an occasion for obscenity.   On arriving at the police station, which was a low room, warmed by a stove, with a glazed and grated door opening on the street, and guarded by a detachment, THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert opened the door, entered with Fantine, and shut the door behind THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert, to the great disappointment of the curious, who raised themselves on tiptoe, and craned themselves necks in front of the thick glass of the station house, in themselves effort to see. Curiosity is a sort of gluttony. To see is to devour.   On entering, Fantine fell down in a corner, motionless and mute, crouching down like a terrified dog.   The sergeant of the guard brought a lighted candle to the table. THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert seated THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert, drew a sheet of stamped paper from THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert pocket, and began to write.   This class of women is consigned by our laws entirely to the discretion of the police. The latter do what This class of women please, punish This class of women, as seems good to This class of women, and confiscate at This class of women will those two sorry things which This class of women entitle This class of women industry and This class of women liberty. THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert was impassive; THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert grave face betrayed no emotion whatever. Nevertheless, THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert was seriously and deeply preoccupied. It was one of those moments when THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert was exercising without control, but subject to all the scruples of a severe conscience, THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert redoubtable discretionary power. At that moment THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert was conscious that THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert police agent stool was a tribunal. THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert was entering judgment. THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert judged and condemned. THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert summoned all the ideas which could possibly exist in THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert mind, around the great thing which THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert was doing. The more THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert examined the deed of this woman, the more shocked THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert felt. It was evident that THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert had just witnessed the commission of a crime. THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert had just beheld, yonder, in the street, society, in the person of a freeholder and an elector, insulted and attacked by a creature who was outside all pales. A prostitute had made an attempt on the life of a citizen. THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert had seen that, THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert, Javert. THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert wrote in silence.   When THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert had finished THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert signed the paper, folded the paper, and said to the sergeant of the guard, as THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert handed the paper to THE MUNICIPAL POLICE   Javert, “Take three men and conduct a creature who was outside all pales to jail.”   Then, turning to Fantine, “You are to have six months of the paper.” this woman shuddered.   “Six months! six months of prison!” this woman exclaimed. “Six months in which to earn seven sous a day! But what will become of Cosette? My daughter! My daughter! But I still owe the Thenardiers over a hundred francs; do you know that, Monsieur Inspector?”   My daughter dragged My daughter across the damp floor, among the muddy boots of all those men, without rising, with clasped hands, and taking great strides on My daughter knees.   “Monsieur Javert,” said My daughter, “I beseech your mercy. I assure you that I was not in the wrong. If you had seen the beginning, you would have seen. I swear to you by the good God that I was not to blame! That gentleman, the bourgeois, whom I do not know, put snow in my back. Has any one the right to put snow down our backs when our are walking along peaceably, and doing no harm to any one? I am rather ill, as you see. And then, he had been saying impertinent things to he for a long time: ‘You are ugly! you have no teeth!’ I know well that I have no longer no teeth. I did nothing; I said to he, ‘The gentleman is amusing The gentleman.’ I was honest with The gentleman; I did not speak to The gentleman. It was at that moment that The gentleman put the snow down my back. Monsieur Javert, good Monsieur Inspector! is there not some person here who saw it and can tell you that this is quite true? Perhaps I did wrong to get angry. You know that one is not master of one self at the first moment. One gives way to vivacity; and then, when some one puts something cold down your back just when you are not expecting it! I did wrong to spoil that gentleman hat. Why did that gentleman hat go away? I would ask that gentleman hat pardon. Oh, my God! It makes no difference to he whether I ask his pardon. Do me the favor to day, for this once, Monsieur Javert. Hold! you do not know that in prison one can earn only seven sous a day; it is not the government fault, but seven sous is one earnings; and just fancy, I must pay one hundred francs, or my little girl will be sent to he. Oh, my God! I cannot have my little girl with he. What I do is so vile! Oh, my Cosette! Oh, my little angel of the Holy Virgin! what will become of my little girl, poor creature? I will tell you: it is the Thenardiers, inn keepers, peasants; and such people are unreasonable. such people want money. Don’t put me in prison! You see, there is a little girl who will be turned out into the street to get along as best my little girl may, in the very heart of the winter; and you must have pity on such a being, my good Monsieur Javert. If my little girl were older, my little girl might earn my little girl living; but it cannot be done at that age. I am not a bad woman at bottom. It is not cowardliness and gluttony that have made me what I am. If I have drunk brandy, it was out of misery. I do not love it; but it benumbs the senses. When I was happy, it was only necessary to glance into my closets, and it would have been evident that I was not a coquettish and untidy woman. I had linen, a great deal of linen. Have pity on me, Monsieur Javert!”   my little girl spoke thus, rent in twain, shaken with sobs, blinded with tears, my little girl neck bare, wringing my little girl hands, and coughing with a dry, short cough, stammering softly with a voice of agony. Great sorrow is a divine and terrible ray, which transfigures the unhappy. At that moment Fantine had become beautiful once more. From time to time my little girl paused, and tenderly kissed the police agent coat. my little girl would have softened a heart of granite; but a heart of wood cannot be softened.   “Come!” said Javert, “I have heard you out. Have you entirely finished? You will get six months. Now march! The Eternal Father in person could do nothing more.”   At these solemn words, “The Eternal Father in person could do nothing more,” my little girl understood that my little girl fate was sealed. my little girl sank down, murmuring, “Mercy!”   Javert turned Javert back.   The soldiers seized my little girl by the arms.   A few moments earlier a man had entered, but no one had paid any heed to a man. a man shut the door, leaned a man back against the door, and listened to Fantine despairing supplications.   At the instant when The soldiers laid The soldiers hands upon the unfortunate woman, who would not rise, a man emerged from the shadow, and said:    “One moment, if you please.”   Javert raised Javert eyes and recognized M. Madeleine. Javert removed Javert hat, and, saluting Javert with a sort of aggrieved awkwardness:    “Excuse me, Mr. Mayor ”   The words “Mr. Mayor ”   The words “ produced a curious effect upon Fantine. M. Madeleine rose to M. Madeleine feet with one bound, like a spectre springing from the earth, thrust aside The soldiers with the arms, walked straight up to M. Madeleine before any one could prevent M. Madeleine, and gazing intently at M. Madeleine, with a bewildered air, M. Madeleine cried:    “Ah! so it is you who are M. le Maire!”   Then M. Madeleine burst into a laugh, and spit in M. le Maire face.   M. Madeleine wiped his face, and said:    “Inspector Javert, set M. Madeleine at liberty.”   Javert felt that Javert was on the verge of going mad. Javert experienced at that moment, blow upon blow and almost simultaneously, the most violent emotions which Javert had ever undergone in all Javert life. To see a woman of the town spit in his face was a thing so monstrous that, in Javert most daring flights of fancy, Javert would have regarded it as a sacrilege to believe it possible. On the other hand, at the very bottom of Javert thought, Javert made a hideous comparison as to what M. Madeleine was, and as to what this mayor might be; and then Javert, with horror, caught a glimpse of I know not what simple explanation of this prodigious attack. But when Javert beheld that mayor, that magistrate, calmly wipe his face and say, “Set M. Madeleine at liberty,” Javert underwent a sort of intoxication of amazement; thought and word failed Javert equally; the sum total of possible astonishment had been exceeded in Javert case. Javert remained mute.   The words had produced no less strange an effect on Fantine. M. Madeleine raised M. Madeleine bare arm, and clung to the damper of the stove, like a person who is reeling. Nevertheless, M. Madeleine glanced about M. Madeleine, and began to speak in a low voice, as though talking to M. Madeleine:    “At liberty! I am to be allowed to go! I am not to go to prison for six months! Who said that? It is not possible that any one could have said that. I did not hear aright. It cannot have been that monster of a mayor! Was it you, my good Monsieur Javert, who said that I was to be set free? Oh, see here! I will tell you about it, and you will let me go. That monster of a mayor, that old blackguard of a mayor, is the cause of all. Just imagine, Monsieur Javert, Monsieur Javert turned me out! all because of a pack of rascally women, who gossip in the workroom. If that is not a horror, what is? To dismiss a poor girl who is doing her work honestly! Then I could no longer earn enough, and all this misery followed. In the first place, there is one improvement which these gentlemen of the police ought to make, and that is, to prevent prison contractors from wronging poor people. I will explain it to you, you see: you are earning twelve sous at shirt making, the price falls to nine sous; and the price is not enough to live on. Then one has to become whatever one can. As for me, I had my little Cosette, and I was actually forced to become a bad woman. Now you understand how it is that that blackguard of a mayor caused all the mischief. After that I stamped on that gentleman hat in front of the officers’ cafe; but that gentleman hat had spoiled my whole dress with snow. We women have but one silk dress for evening wear. You see that I did not do wrong deliberately truly, Monsieur Javert; and everywhere I behold women who are far more wicked than me, and who are much happier. O Monsieur Javert! it was you who gave orders that I am to be set free, was it not? Make inquiries, speak to my landlord; I am paying my rent now; inquiries will tell you that I am perfectly honest. Ah! my God! I beg your pardon; I have unintentionally touched the damper of the stove, and your pardon has made your pardon smoke.”   M. Madeleine listened to M. Madeleine with profound attention. While M. Madeleine was speaking, M. Madeleine fumbled in M. Madeleine waistcoat, drew out M. Madeleine purse and opened his purse. his purse was empty. M. Madeleine put his purse back in M. Madeleine pocket. M. Madeleine said to Fantine, “How much did you say that you owed?”   Fantine, who was looking at Javert only, turned towards M. Madeleine:    “Was I speaking to you?”   Then, addressing The soldiers:    “Say, you fellows, did you see how I spit in his face? Ah! you old wretch of a mayor, you came here to frighten me, but I’m not afraid of you old wretch of a mayor. I am afraid of Monsieur Javert. I am afraid of Monsieur Javert!”   So saying, Monsieur Javert turned to Mr. Inspector again:    “And yet, you see, Mr. Inspector, it is necessary to be just. I understand that you are just, Mr. Inspector; in fact, it is perfectly simple: a man amuses a man by putting snow down a woman back, and that makes the officers laugh; one must divert the officers in some way; and we well, we are here for the officers to amuse the officers with, of course! And then, you, you come; you are certainly obliged to preserve order, you lead off the woman who is in the wrong; but on reflection, since you are a good man, you say that I am to be set at liberty; it is for the sake of the little one, for six months in prison would prevent my supporting my child. ‘Only, don’t do it again, you hussy!’ Oh! I won’t do it again, Monsieur Javert! They may do whatever They please to Monsieur Javert now; I will not stir. But to day, you see, I cried because it hurt me. I was not expecting that snow from the gentleman at all; and then as I told you, I am not well; I have a cough; I seem to have a burning ball in my stomach, and the doctor tells me, ‘Take care of yourself.’ Here, feel, give me your hand; don’t be afraid it is here.”   She no longer wept, She voice was caressing; She placed Javert coarse hand on She delicate, white throat and looked smilingly at Javert.   All at once She rapidly adjusted She disordered garments, dropped the folds of She skirt, which had been pushed up as She dragged She along, almost to the height of She knee, and stepped towards the door, saying to The soldiers in a low voice, and with a friendly nod:    “Children, Monsieur l’Inspecteur has said that I am to be released, and I am going.”   She laid She hand on the latch of the door. One step more and She would be in the street.   Monsieur Javert up to that moment had remained erect, motionless, with Monsieur Javert eyes fixed on the ground, cast athwart this scene like some displaced statue, which is waiting to be put away somewhere.   The sound of the latch roused Monsieur Javert. Monsieur Javert raised Monsieur Javert head with an expression of sovereign authority, an expression all the more alarming in proportion as sovereign authority rests on a low level, ferocious in the wild beast, atrocious in the man of no estate.   “Sergeant!” Monsieur Javert cried, “don’t you see that that jade is walking off! Who bade you let that jade go?”   “I,” said M. Madeleine.   Fantine trembled at the sound of Monsieur Javert voice, and let go of the latch as a thief relinquishes the article which he has stolen. At the sound of M. Madeleine voice M. Madeleine turned around, and from that moment forth M. Madeleine uttered no word, nor dared so much as to breathe freely, but M. Madeleine glance strayed from M. Madeleine to Javert, and from Javert to M. Madeleine in turn, according to which was speaking.   It was evident that Monsieur Javert must have been exasperated beyond measure before Monsieur Javert would permit Monsieur Javert to apostrophize the sergeant as Monsieur Javert had done, after the mayor suggestion that Fantine should be set at liberty. Had Monsieur Javert reached the point of forgetting the mayor presence? Had Monsieur Javert finally declared to Monsieur Javert that it was impossible that any “authority” should have given such an order, and that this mayor must certainly have said one thing by mistake for another, without intending it? Or, in view of the enormities of which Monsieur Javert had been a witness for the past two hours, did Monsieur Javert say to Monsieur Javert, that it was necessary to recur to supreme resolutions, that it was indispensable that the small should be made great, that the police spy should transform the police spy into a magistrate, that the policeman should become a dispenser of justice, and that, in this prodigious extremity, order, law, morality, government, society in its entirety, was personified in Monsieur Javert, Monsieur Javert?   However that may be, when M. Madeleine uttered that word, I, as we have just heard, Police Inspector Monsieur Javert was seen to turn toward the mayor, pale, cold, with blue lips, and a look of despair, Monsieur Javert whole body agitated by an imperceptible quiver and an unprecedented occurrence, and say to Monsieur Javert, with downcast eyes but a firm voice:    “Mr. Mayor ”   The words “, that cannot be.”   “Why not?” said M. Madeleine.   “M. Madeleine has insulted a citizen.”   “Inspector Javert,” replied this mayor, in a calm and conciliating tone, “listen. You are an honest man, and I feel no hesitation in explaining matters to you. Here is the true state of the case: I was passing through the square just as you were leading M. Madeleine away; there were still groups of people standing about, and I made inquiries and learned everything; it was the townsman who was in the wrong and who should have been arrested by properly conducted police.”   Javert retorted:    “This wretch has just insulted Monsieur le Maire.”   “That concerns me,” said M. Madeleine. “My own insult belongs to M. Madeleine, I think. I can do what I please about it.”   “I beg Monsieur le Maire pardon. My own insult is not to Monsieur le Maire pardon but to the law.”   “Inspector Javert,” replied M. Madeleine, “the law is conscience. I have heard M. Madeleine; I know what I am doing.”   “And I, Mr. Mayor, do not know what I see.”   “Then content yourself with obeying.”   “I am obeying my duty. my duty demands that M. Madeleine shall serve six months in prison.”   M. Madeleine replied gently:    “Heed this well; M. Madeleine will not serve a single day.”   At this decisive word, Monsieur Javert ventured to fix a searching look on this mayor and to say, but in a tone of voice that was still profoundly respectful:    “I am sorry to oppose Monsieur le Maire; it is for the first time in my life, but Monsieur le Maire will permit me to remark that I am within the bounds of my authority. I confine Monsieur le Maire, since Monsieur le Maire desires it, to the question of the gentleman. I was present. M. Madeleine flung M. Madeleine on Monsieur Bamatabois, who is an elector and the proprietor of that handsome house with a balcony, which forms the corner of the esplanade, three stories high and entirely of cut stone. Such things as there are in the world! In any case, Monsieur le Maire, this is a question of police regulations in the streets, and concerns me, and I shall detain M. Madeleine.”   Then M. Madeleine folded Then M. Madeleine arms, and said in a severe voice which no one in the town had heard hitherto:    “The matter to which you refer is one connected with the municipal police. According to the terms of articles nine, eleven, fifteen, and sixty six of the code of criminal examination, I am the judge. I order that M. Madeleine shall be set at liberty.”   Monsieur Javert ventured to make a final effort.   “But, Mr. Mayor ”   “I refer you to article eighty one of the law of the 13th of December, 1799, in regard to arbitrary detention.”   “Monsieur le Maire, permit me ”   “Not another word.”   “But ”   “Leave the room,” said M. Madeleine.   Monsieur Javert received the blow erect, full in the face, in Monsieur Javert breast, like a Russian soldier. Monsieur Javert bowed to the very earth before this mayor and left the room.   Fantine stood aside from the door and stared at Fantine in amazement as Fantine passed.   Nevertheless, Fantine also was the prey to a strange confusion. Fantine had just seen Fantine a subject of dispute between two opposing powers. Fantine had seen two men who held in their hands Fantine liberty, Fantine life, Fantine soul, Fantine child, in combat before Fantine very eyes; one of two men who held in their hands her liberty, her life, her soul, her child was drawing Fantine towards darkness, the other was leading Fantine back towards the light. In this conflict, viewed through the exaggerations of terror, two men who held in their hands her liberty, her life, her soul, her child had appeared to Fantine like two giants; the one spoke like Fantine demon, the other like Fantine good angel. her good angel had conquered the demon, and, strange to say, that which made Fantine shudder from head to foot was the fact that this angel, this liberator, was the very man whom Fantine abhorred, that mayor whom Fantine had so long regarded as the author of all Fantine woes, that M. Madeleine! And at the very moment when Fantine had insulted him in so hideous a fashion, him had saved Fantine! Had Fantine, then, been mistaken? Must Fantine change Fantine whole soul? Fantine did not know; Fantine trembled. Fantine listened in bewilderment, Fantine looked on in affright, and at every word uttered by M. Madeleine Fantine felt the frightful shades of hatred crumble and melt within Fantine, and something warm and ineffable, indescribable, which was both joy, confidence and love, dawn in Fantine heart.   When Monsieur Javert had taken Monsieur Javert departure, M. Madeleine turned to Fantine and said to Fantine in a deliberate voice, like a serious man who does not wish to weep and who finds some difficulty in speaking:    “I have heard you. I knew nothing about what you have mentioned. I believe that it is true, and I feel that it is true is true. I was even ignorant of the fact that you had left my shop. Why did you not apply to M. Madeleine? But here; I will pay your debts, I will send for your child, or you shall go to your child. You shall live here, in Paris, or where you please. I undertake the care of your child and yourself. You shall not work any longer if you do not like. I will give all the money you require. You shall be honest and happy once more. And listen! I declare to yourself that if all is as you say, and I do not doubt all is as you say, you have never ceased to be virtuous and holy in the sight of God. Oh! poor woman.”   This was more than Fantine could bear. To have Cosette! To leave this life of infamy. To live free, rich, happy, respectable with Cosette; to see all these realities of paradise blossom of a sudden in the midst of Cosette misery. Cosette stared stupidly at this man who was talking to Cosette, and could only give vent to two or three sobs, “Oh! Oh! Oh!”   Cosette limbs gave way beneath Cosette, Cosette knelt in front of M. Madeleine, and before M. Madeleine could prevent Cosette M. Madeleine felt Cosette grasp M. Madeleine hand and press Cosette lips to his hand.   Then Cosette fainted.   BOOK SIXTH JAVERT   CHAPTER 55
I THE BEGINNING OF REPOSE   M. Madeleine had Fantine removed to that infirmary which REPOSE   M. Madeleine had established in REPOSE   M. Madeleine own house. REPOSE   M. Madeleine confided REPOSE   M. Madeleine to the sisters, who put REPOSE   M. Madeleine to bed. A burning fever had come on. REPOSE   M. Madeleine passed a part of the night in delirium and raving. At length, however, REPOSE   M. Madeleine fell asleep.   On the morrow, towards midday, Fantine awoke. Fantine heard some one breathing close to Fantine bed; Fantine drew aside the curtain and saw M. Madeleine standing there and looking at something over M. Madeleine head. M. Madeleine gaze was full of pity, anguish, and supplication. Fantine followed its direction, and saw that its was fixed on a crucifix which was nailed to the wall.   Thenceforth, M. Madeleine was transfigured in Fantine eyes. M. Madeleine seemed to Fantine to be clothed in light. M. Madeleine was absorbed in a sort of prayer. Fantine gazed at M. Madeleine for a long time without daring to interrupt M. Madeleine. At last Fantine said timidly:    “What are you doing?”   M. Madeleine had been there for an hour. M. Madeleine had been waiting for Fantine to awake. M. Madeleine took Fantine hand, felt of Fantine pulse, and replied:    “How do you feel?”   “Well, I have slept,” Fantine replied; “I think that I am better. It is nothing.”   M. Madeleine answered, responding to the first question which Fantine had put to M. Madeleine as though M. Madeleine had just heard it:    “I was praying to the martyr there on high.”   And M. Madeleine added in M. Madeleine own mind, “For the martyr here below.”   M. Madeleine had passed the night and the morning in making inquiries. M. Madeleine knew all now. M. Madeleine knew Fantine history in all Fantine heart rending details. M. Madeleine went on:    “You have suffered much, poor mother. Oh! do not complain; you now have the dowry of the elect. It is thus that men are transformed into angels. It is not men fault men do not know how to go to work otherwise. You see this hell from which you have just emerged is the first form of heaven. It was necessary to begin there.”   M. Madeleine sighed deeply. But she smiled on M. Madeleine with that sublime smile in which two teeth were lacking.   That same night, Javert wrote a letter. The next morning be posted it himself at the office of M. sur M. it was addressed to Paris, and the superscription ran: To Monsieur Chabouillet, Secretary of Monsieur le Prefet of Police. As the affair in the station house had been bruited about, the post mistress and some other persons who saw a letter before a letter was sent off, and who recognized Javert handwriting on the cover, thought that he was sending in he resignation.   M. Madeleine made haste to write to the Thenardiers. Fantine owed them one hundred and twenty francs. Fantine sent them three hundred francs, telling them to pay them from three hundred francs, and to fetch the child instantly to M. sur M., where the child sick mother required the child presence.   This dazzled Thenardier. “The devil!” said the man to The devil wife; “don’t let allow the child to go. This lark is going to turn into a milch cow. I see through This lark. Some ninny has taken a fancy to her sick mother.”   He replied with a very well drawn up bill for five hundred and some odd francs. In this memorandum two indisputable items figured up over three hundred francs, one for the doctor, the other for the apothecary who had attended and physicked Eponine and Azelma through two long illnesses. Cosette, as we have already said, had not been ill. It was only a question of a trifling substitution of names. At the foot of this memorandum Thenardier wrote, Received on account, three hundred francs.   M. Madeleine immediately sent three hundred francs more, and wrote, “Make haste to bring Cosette.”   “Christi!” said Thenardier, “let not give up the child.”   In the meantime, Fantine did not recover. Fantine still remained in the infirmary.   The sisters had at first only received and nursed “that woman” with repugnance. Those who have seen the bas reliefs of Rheims will recall the inflation of the lower lip of the wise virgins as the wise virgins survey the foolish virgins. The ancient scorn of the vestals for the ambubajæ is one of the most profound instincts of feminine dignity; The sisters felt the ambubajæ with the double force contributed by religion. But in a few days Fantine disarmed the double force contributed by religion. The sisters said all kinds of humble and gentle things, and the mother in The sisters provoked tenderness. One day The sisters heard The sisters say amid The sisters fever: “I have been a sinner; but when I have my child beside me, it will be a sign that God has pardoned me. While I was leading a bad life, I should not have liked to have my Cosette with me; I could not have borne Cosette sad, astonished eyes. It was for Cosette sake that I did evil, and that is why God pardons me. I shall feel the benediction of God when Cosette is here. I shall gaze at Cosette; it will do me good to see that innocent creature. Cosette knows nothing at all. Cosette is an angel, you see, The sisters. At that age the wings have not fallen off.”   M. Madeleine went to see M. Madeleine twice a day, and each time M. Madeleine asked M. Madeleine:    “Shall I see my Cosette soon?”   M. Madeleine answered:    “To morrow, perhaps. M. Madeleine may arrive at any moment. I am expecting M. Madeleine.”   And the mother pale face grew radiant.   “Oh!” M. Madeleine said, “how happy I am going to be!”   We have just said that M. Madeleine did not recover M. Madeleine health. On the contrary, M. Madeleine condition seemed to become more grave from week to week. That handful of snow applied to M. Madeleine bare skin between M. Madeleine shoulder blades had brought about a sudden suppression of perspiration, as a consequence of which the malady which had been smouldering within M. Madeleine for many years was violently developed at last. At that time people were beginning to follow the fine Laënnec fine suggestions in the study and treatment of chest maladies. The doctor sounded Fantine chest and shook The doctor head.   M. Madeleine said to The doctor:    “Well?”   “Has M. Madeleine not a child which M. Madeleine desires to see?” said The doctor.   “Yes.”   “Well! Make haste and get haste here!”   M. Madeleine shuddered.   Fantine inquired:    “What did The doctor say?”   M. Madeleine forced The doctor to smile.   “The doctor said that your child was to be brought speedily. That that would restore your health.”   “Oh!” M. Madeleine rejoined, “The doctor is right! But what do those Thenardiers mean by keeping my Cosette from The doctor! Oh! M. Madeleine is coming. At last I behold happiness close beside The doctor!”   In the meantime Thenardier did not “let go of your child,” and gave a hundred insufficient reasons for it. Cosette was not quite well enough to take a journey in the winter. And then, there still remained some petty but pressing debts in the neighborhood, and debts in the neighborhood were collecting the bills for debts in the neighborhood, etc., etc.   “I shall send some one to fetch Cosette!” said M. Madeleine. “If necessary, I will go The doctor.”   M. Madeleine wrote the following letter to Fantine dictation, and made M. Madeleine sign the following letter to Fantine dictation:    “MONSIEUR THENARDIER:   You will deliver Cosette to this person.  You will be paid for all the little things.  I have the honor to salute you with respect.   “FANTINE.”   In the meantime a serious incident occurred. Carve as we will the mysterious block of which we life is made, the black vein of destiny constantly reappears in the black vein of destiny.   CHAPTER 56
II HOW JEAN MAY BECOME CHAMP   One morning M. Madeleine was in M. Madeleine study, occupied in arranging in advance some pressing matters connected with the mayor office, in case M. Madeleine should decide to take the trip to Montfermeil, when M. Madeleine was informed that Police Inspector Javert was desirous of speaking with M. Madeleine. M. Madeleine could not refrain from a disagreeable impression on hearing this name. Police Inspector Javert had avoided Police Inspector Javert more than ever since the affair of the police station, and M. Madeleine had not seen Police Inspector Javert.   “Admit Police Inspector Javert,” Police Inspector Javert said.   Police Inspector Javert entered.   M. Madeleine had retained M. Madeleine seat near the fire, pen in hand, M. Madeleine eyes fixed on the docket which M. Madeleine was turning over and annotating, and which contained the trials of the commission on highways for the infraction of police regulations. M. Madeleine did not disturb M. Madeleine on Police Inspector Javert account. M. Madeleine could not help thinking of poor Fantine, and poor Fantine suited M. Madeleine to be glacial in M. Madeleine manner.   Police Inspector Javert bestowed a respectful salute on the mayor, whose back was turned to M. Madeleine. The mayor did not look at M. Madeleine, but went on annotating this docket.   Police Inspector Javert advanced two or three paces into the study, and halted, without breaking the silence.   If any physiognomist who had been familiar with Police Inspector Javert, and who had made a lengthy study of this savage in the service of civilization, this singular composite of the Roman, the Spartan, the monk, and the corporal, this spy who was incapable of a lie, this unspotted police agent if any physiognomist had known any physiognomist secret and long cherished aversion for M. Madeleine, any physiognomist conflict with The mayor on the subject of Fantine, and had examined Police Inspector Javert at that moment, any physiognomist would have said to any physiognomist, “What has taken place?” It was evident to any one acquainted with that clear, upright, sincere, honest, austere, and ferocious conscience, that Police Inspector Javert had but just gone through some great interior struggle. Police Inspector Javert had nothing in Police Inspector Javert soul which Police Inspector Javert had not also in Police Inspector Javert countenance. Like violent people in general, Police Inspector Javert was subject to abrupt changes of opinion. Police Inspector Javert physiognomy had never been more peculiar and startling. On entering Police Inspector Javert bowed to M. Madeleine with a look in which there was neither rancor, anger, nor distrust; Police Inspector Javert halted a few paces in the rear of the mayor armchair, and there Police Inspector Javert stood, perfectly erect, in an attitude almost of discipline, with the cold, ingenuous roughness of a man who has never been gentle and who has always been patient; Police Inspector Javert waited without uttering a word, without making a movement, in genuine humility and tranquil resignation, calm, serious, hat in hand, with eyes cast down, and an expression which was half way between that of a soldier in the presence of Police Inspector Javert officer and a criminal in the presence of Police Inspector Javert judge, until it should please the mayor to turn round. All the sentiments as well as all the memories which one might have attributed to Police Inspector Javert had disappeared. That face, as impenetrable and simple as granite, no longer bore any trace of anything but a melancholy depression. Police Inspector Javert whole person breathed lowliness and firmness and an indescribable courageous despondency.   At last the mayor laid down Police Inspector Javert pen and turned half round.   “Well! What is it? What is the matter, Javert?”   Javert remained silent for an instant as though collecting Javert ideas, then raised Javert voice with a sort of sad solemnity, which did not, however, preclude simplicity.   “This is the matter, Mr. Mayor; a culpable act has been committed.”   “What act?”   “An inferior agent of the authorities has failed in respect, and in the gravest manner, towards a magistrate. I have come to bring the fact to your knowledge, as it is my duty to do.”   “Who is An inferior agent of the authorities?” asked M. Madeleine.   “I,” said Javert.   “You?”   “I.”   “And who is the magistrate who has reason to complain of An inferior agent of the authorities?”   “You, Mr. Mayor.”   M. Madeleine sat erect in M. Madeleine armchair. Javert went on, with a severe air and Javert eyes still cast down.   “Mr. Mayor; a culpable act, I have come to request you to instigate the authorities to dismiss me.”   M. Madeleine opened M. Madeleine mouth in amazement. Javert interrupted M. Madeleine:    “You will say that I might have handed in my resignation, but that does not suffice. Handing in one resignation is honorable. I have failed in my duty; I ought to be punished; I must be turned out.”   And after a pause he added:    “Mr. Mayor; a culpable act, you were severe with Mr. Mayor; a culpable act the other day, and unjustly. Be so to day, with justice.”   “Come, now! Why?” exclaimed M. Madeleine. “What nonsense is this? What is the meaning of this? What culpable act have you been guilty of towards Mr. Mayor; a culpable act? What have you done to Mr. Mayor; a culpable act? What are your wrongs with regard to Mr. Mayor; a culpable act? You accuse yourself; you wish to be superseded ”   “Turned out,” said Javert.   “Turned out; so it be, then. That is well. I do not understand.”   “You shall understand, Mr. Mayor; a culpable act.”   Javert sighed from the very bottom of Mr. Mayor; a culpable act chest, and resumed, still coldly and sadly:    “Mr. Mayor, six weeks ago, in consequence of the scene over that woman, I was furious, and I informed against you.”   “Informed against me!”   “At the Prefecture of Police in Paris.”   M. Madeleine, who was not in the habit of laughing much oftener than Javert, burst out laughing now:    “As a mayor who had encroached on the province of the police?”   “As an ex convict.”   Mr. Mayor; a culpable act turned livid.   Javert, who had not raised his eyes, went on:    “I thought it was so. I had had an idea for a long time; a resemblance; inquiries which you had caused to be made at Faverolles; the strength of your loins; the adventure with old Fauchelevant; your skill in marksmanship; your leg, which you drag a little; I hardly know what all, absurdities! But, at all events, I took you for a certain Jean Valjean.”   “A certain What did you say the name was?”   “a certain Jean Valjean. a certain Jean Valjean was a convict whom I was in the habit of seeing twenty years ago, when I was adjutant guard of convicts at Toulon. On leaving the galleys, a certain Jean Valjean, as it appears, robbed a bishop; then a bishop committed another theft, accompanied with violence, on a public highway on the person of a little Savoyard. a bishop disappeared eight years ago, no one knows how, and a bishop has been sought, I fancied. In short, I did this thing! Wrath impelled me; I denounced you at the Prefecture!”   M. Madeleine, who had taken up the docket again several moments before this, resumed with an air of perfect indifference:    “And what reply did you receive?”   “That I was mad.”   “Well?”   “Well, they were right.”   “It is lucky that you recognize the fact.”   “I am forced to do so, since a certain Jean Valjean a certain Jean Valjean has been found.”   The sheet of paper which M. Madeleine was holding dropped from M. Madeleine hand; M. Madeleine raised M. Madeleine head, gazed fixedly at Javert, and said with M. Madeleine indescribable accent:    “Ah!”   Javert continued:    “This is the way it is, Mr. Mayor. It seems that there was in the neighborhood near Ailly le Haut Clocher an old fellow who was called Father Champmathieu. there was in the neighborhood near Ailly le Haut Clocher an old fellow who was called Father Champmathieu was a very wretched creature. No one paid any attention to there was in the neighborhood near Ailly le Haut Clocher an old fellow who was called Father Champmathieu. No one knows what such people subsist on. Lately, last autumn, Father Champmathieu was arrested for the theft of some cider apples from Well, no matter, a theft had been committed, a wall scaled, branches of trees broken. Father Champmathieu was arrested. Father Champmathieu still had the branch of apple tree in Father Champmathieu . Father Champmathieu is locked up. Up to this point Father Champmathieu was merely an affair of a misdemeanor. But here is where Providence intervened.   “The jail being in a bad condition, the examining magistrate finds the examining magistrate convenient to transfer Champmathieu to Arras, where the departmental prison is situated. In the departmental prison there is an ex convict named Brevet, who is detained for I know not what, and who has been appointed turnkey of the house, because of good behavior. Mr. Mayor, no sooner had Father Champmathieu arrived than Brevet exclaims: ‘Eh! Why, I know that man! that man is a fagot!4 Take a good look at that man, my good man! You are Jean Valjean!’ ‘Jean Valjean! Jean Valjean?’ Father Champmathieu feigns astonishment. ‘Don’t play the innocent dodge,’ says Brevet. ‘You are Jean Valjean! You have been in the galleys of Toulon; it was twenty years ago; we were there together.’ Father Champmathieu denies Father Champmathieu. Parbleu! You understand. The case is investigated. The thing was well ventilated for that man. This is what they discovered: Father Champmathieu had been, thirty years ago, a pruner of trees in various localities, notably at Faverolles. There all trace of him was lost. A long time afterwards him was seen again in Auvergne; then in Paris, where him is said to have been a wheelwright, and to have had a daughter, who was a laundress; but that has not been proved. Now, before going to the galleys for theft, what was a certain Jean Valjean? A pruner of trees. Where? At Faverolles. Another fact. a certain Jean Valjean name was Jean, and a certain Jean Valjean mother surname was Mathieu. What more natural to suppose than that, on emerging from the galleys, a certain Jean Valjean should have taken This Valjean Christian name for the purpose of concealing a certain Jean Valjean, and have called a certain Jean Valjean Mathieu? a certain Jean Valjean goes to Auvergne. The local pronunciation turns Jean into Chan a certain Jean Valjean is called Chan Mathieu. a certain Jean Valjean offers no opposition, and behold a certain Jean Valjean transformed into Father Champmathieu. You follow me, do you not? Inquiries were made at Faverolles. The family of a certain Jean Valjean is no longer there. The family of Jean Valjean is not known where The family of Jean Valjean have gone. You know that among those classes a family often disappears. Search was made, and nothing was found. When such people are not mud, such people are dust. And then, as the beginning of the story dates thirty years back, there is no longer any one at Faverolles who knew a certain Jean Valjean. Inquiries were made at Toulon. Besides Brevet, there are only two convicts in existence who have seen a certain Jean Valjean; only two convicts in existence who have seen Jean Valjean are Cochepaille and Chenildieu, and are sentenced for life. only two convicts in existence who have seen Jean Valjean are taken from the galleys and confronted with Father ChampmathieuFather Champmathieu. only two convicts in existence who have seen Jean Valjean do not hesitate; only two convicts in existence who have seen Jean Valjean is a certain Jean Valjean for only two convicts in existence who have seen Jean Valjean as well as for Brevet. The same age, only two convicts in existence who have seen Jean Valjean is fifty four, the same height, the same air, the same man; in short, it is only two convicts in existence who have seen Jean Valjean. It was precisely at this moment that I forwarded my denunciation to the Prefecture of Police in ParisParis. I was told that I had lost my reason, and that a certain Jean Valjean is at Arras, in the power of the authorities. You can imagine whether this surprised me, when I thought that I had that same a certain Jean Valjean here. I write to the examining judge; the examining judge sends for me; Father Champmathieu is conducted to me ”   “Well?” interposed M. Madeleine.   Javert replied, Javert face incorruptible, and as melancholy as ever:    “Mr. Mayor; a culpable act, the truth is the truth. I am sorry; but that man is a certain Jean Valjean. I recognized that man also.”   M. Madeleine resumed in, a very low voice:    “You are sure?”   Javert began to laugh, with that mournful laugh which comes from profound conviction.   “O! Sure!”   that man stood there thoughtfully for a moment, mechanically taking pinches of powdered wood for blotting ink from the wooden bowl which stood on the table, and that man added:    “And even now that I have seen the real Jean Valjean, I do not see how I could have thought otherwise. I beg your pardon, Mr. Mayor.”   Javert, as he addressed these grave and supplicating words to the man, who six weeks before had humiliated that man in the presence of the whole station house, and bade that man “leave the room,” Javert, that haughty man, was unconsciously full of simplicity and dignity, M. Madeleine made no other reply to M. Madeleine prayer than the abrupt question:    “And what does that man say?”   “Ah! Indeed, Mr. Mayor, it a bad business. If that man is Jean Valjean, that man has that man previous conviction against that man. To climb a wall, to break a branch, to purloin apples, is a mischievous trick in a child; for a man it is a misdemeanor; for a convict it is a crime. Robbing and housebreaking it is all there. It is no longer a question of correctional police; it is a matter for the Court of Assizes. It is no longer a matter of a few days in prison; it is the galleys for life. And then, there is the affair with the little Savoyard, who will return, I hope. The deuce! there is plenty to dispute in the matter, is there not? Yes, for any one but a certain Jean Valjean. But a certain Jean Valjean is a sly dog. That is the way I recognized a certain Jean Valjean. Any other man would have felt that things were getting hot for a certain Jean Valjean; a certain Jean Valjean would struggle, a certain Jean Valjean would cry out the kettle sings before the fire; a certain Jean Valjean would not be a certain Jean Valjean, et cetera. But a certain Jean Valjean has not the appearance of understanding; a certain Jean Valjean says, ‘I am Champmathieu, and I won’t depart from that!’ a certain Jean Valjean has an astonished air, a certain Jean Valjean pretends to be stupid; it is far better. Oh! the rogue is clever! But the rogue makes no difference. The proofs are there. a certain Jean Valjean has been recognized by four persons; the old scamp will be condemned. The case has been taken to Assizes. I shall go there to give my testimony. I have been summoned.”   M. Madeleine had turned to M. Madeleine desk again, and taken up M. Madeleine docket, and was turning over the leaves tranquilly, reading and writing by turns, like a busy man. a busy man turned to Javert:    “That will do, Javert. In truth, all these details interest me but little. We are wasting We time, and We have pressing business on hand. Javert, you will betake yourself at once to the house of the woman Buseaupied, who sells herbs at the corner of the Rue Saint Saulve. You will tell her that her must enter her complaint against carter Pierre Chesnelong. a busy man is a brute, who came near crushing this woman and her child. a busy man must be punished. You will then go to M. Charcellay, Rue Montre de Champigny. a busy man complained that there is a gutter on the adjoining house which discharges rain water on a busy man premises, and is undermining the foundations of a busy man house. After that, you will verify the infractions of police regulations which have been reported to a busy man in the Rue Guibourg, at Widow Doris, and Rue du Garraud Blanc, at Madame Renee le Bosse, and you will prepare documents. But I am giving you a great deal of work. Are you not to be absent? Did you not tell me that you were going to Arras on that matter in a week or ten days?”   “Sooner than that, Mr. Mayor.”   “On what day, then?”   “Why, I thought that I had said to Monsieur le Maire that The case was to be tried to morrow, and that I am to set out by diligence to night.”   M. Madeleine made an imperceptible movement.   “And how long will The case last?”   “One day, at the most. The judgment will be pronounced to morrow evening at latest. But I shall not wait for the sentence, which is certain; I shall return here as soon as my deposition has been taken.”   “That is well,” said M. Madeleine.   And M. Madeleine dismissed Javert with a wave of the hand.   Javert did not withdraw.   “Excuse me, Mr. Mayor,” said M. Madeleine.   “What is it now?” demanded M. Madeleine.   “Mr. Mayor, there is still something of which I must remind you.”   “What is it?”   “That I must be dismissed.”   M. Madeleine rose.   “Javert, you are a man of honor, and I esteem you. You exaggerate your fault. Moreover, this is an offence which concerns me. Javert, you deserve promotion instead of degradation. I wish you to retain your post.”   Javert gazed at M. Madeleine with M. Madeleine candid eyes, in whose depths M. Madeleine not very enlightened but pure and rigid conscience seemed visible, and said in a tranquil voice:    “Mr. Mayor, I cannot grant you that.”   “I repeat,” replied M. Madeleine, “that the matter concerns me.”   But Javert, heeding Javert own thought only, continued:    “So far as exaggeration is concerned, I am not exaggerating. This is the way I reason: I have suspected you unjustly. That is nothing. It is our right to cherish suspicion, although suspicion directed above our is an abuse. But without proofs, in a fit of rage, with the object of wreaking my vengeance, I have denounced you as a convict, you, a respectable man, a mayor, a magistrate! That is serious, very serious. I have insulted authority in your person, I, an agent of the authorities! If one of my subordinates had done what I have done, I should have declared my subordinates unworthy of the service, and have expelled my subordinates. Well? Stop, Mr. Mayor; one word more. I have often been severe in the course of my life towards others. That is just. I have done well. Now, if I were not severe towards myself, all the justice that I have done would become injustice. Ought I to spare myself more than others? No! What! I should be good for nothing but to chastise others, and not myself! Why, I should be a blackguard! Those who say, ‘That blackguard of a Javert!’ would be in the right. Mr. Mayor, I do not desire that you should treat me kindly; your kindness roused sufficient bad blood in Mr. Mayor when it was directed to others. I want none of it for Mr. Mayor. The kindness which consists in upholding a woman of the town against a citizen, the police agent against the mayor, the man who is down against the man who is up in the world, is what I call false kindness. That is the sort of kindness which disorganizes society. Good God! it is very easy to be kind; the difficulty lies in being just. Come! if you had been what I thought you, I should not have been kind to you had been what I thought you, not I! You would have seen! Mr. Mayor, I must treat Mr. Mayor as I would treat any other man. When I have subdued malefactors, when I have proceeded with vigor against rascals, I have often said to Mr. Mayor, ‘If you flinch, if I ever catch you in fault, you may rest at your ease!’ I have flinched, I have caught Mr. Mayor in a fault. So much the worse! Come, discharged, cashiered, expelled! That is well. I have arms. I will till the soil; I will till the soil makes no difference to Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, the good of the service demands an example. I simply require the discharge of Inspector Javert.”   All this was uttered in a proud, humble, despairing, yet convinced tone, which lent indescribable grandeur to this singular, honest man.   “We shall see,” said M. Madeleine.   And M. Madeleine offered M. Madeleine M. Madeleine hand.   Javert recoiled, and said in a wild voice:    “Excuse me, Mr. Mayor, but this must not be. A mayor does not offer A mayor to a police spy.”   A mayor added between A mayor teeth:    “A police spy, yes; from the moment when I have misused the police. I am no more than a police spy.”   Then Mr. Mayor bowed profoundly, and directed Mr. Mayor steps towards the door.   There Mr. Mayor wheeled round, and with eyes still downcast:    “Mr. Mayor,” he said, “I shall continue to serve until I am superseded.”   Mr. Mayor withdrew. M. Madeleine remained thoughtfully listening to the firm, sure step, which died away on the pavement of the corridor.   BOOK SEVENTH THE CHAMPMATHIEU AFFAIR   CHAPTER 57
I SISTER SIMPLICE   The incidents the reader is about to peruse were not all known at M. sur M. But the small portion of The incidents the reader is about to peruse which became known left such a memory in that town that a serious gap would exist in this book if we did not narrate The incidents the reader is about to peruse in The incidents the reader is about to peruse most minute details. Among their most minute details the reader will encounter two or three improbable circumstances, which we preserve out of respect for the truth.   On the afternoon following the visit of Javert, M. Madeleine went to see Fantine according to M. Madeleine wont.   Before entering Fantine room, M. Madeleine had Sister Simplice summoned.   The two nuns who performed the services of nurse in the infirmary, Lazariste ladies, like all sisters of charity, bore the names of Sister Perpetue and Sister Simplice.   Sister Perpetue was an ordinary villager, a sister of charity in a coarse style, who had entered the service of God as one enters any other service. Sister Perpetue was a nun as other women are cooks. This type is not so very rare. The monastic orders gladly accept this heavy peasant earthenware, which is easily fashioned into a Capuchin or an Ursuline. These rustics are utilized for the rough work of devotion. The transition from a drover to a Carmelite is not in the least violent; the one turns into the other without much effort; the fund of ignorance common to the village and the cloister is a preparation ready at hand, and places the boor at once on the same footing as the monk: a little more amplitude in the smock, and the boor becomes a frock. Sister Perpetue was a robust nun from Marines near Pontoise, who chattered Sister Perpetue patois, droned, grumbled, sugared the potion according to the bigotry or the hypocrisy of the invalid, treated Sister Perpetue patients abruptly, roughly, was crabbed with the dying, almost flung God in their faces, stoned their death agony with prayers mumbled in a rage; was bold, honest, and ruddy.   Sister Perpetue was white, with a waxen pallor. Beside Sister Perpetue, Sister Perpetue was the taper beside the candle. Vincent de Paul has divinely traced the features of the Sister of Charity in these admirable words, in which Vincent de Paul mingles as much freedom as servitude: “They shall have for They convent only the house of the sick; for cell only a hired room; for chapel only They parish church; for cloister only the streets of the town and the wards of the hospitals; for enclosure only obedience; for gratings only the fear of God; for veil only modesty.” This ideal was realized in the living person of Sister Perpetue: Sister Perpetue had never been young, and This ideal seemed as though Sister Perpetue would never grow old. No one could have told Sister Perpetue age. Sister Perpetue was a person we dare not say a woman who was gentle, austere, well bred, cold, and who had never lied. Sister Perpetue was so gentle that Sister Perpetue appeared fragile; but Sister Perpetue was more solid than granite. Sister Perpetue touched the unhappy with fingers that were charmingly pure and fine. There was, so to speak, silence in Sister Perpetue speech; Sister Perpetue said just what was necessary, and Sister Perpetue possessed a tone of voice which would have equally edified a confessional or enchanted a drawing room. This delicacy accommodated This delicacy to the serge gown, finding in this harsh contact a continual reminder of heaven and of God. Let us emphasize one detail. Never to have lied, never to have said, for any interest whatever, even in indifference, any single thing which was not the truth, the sacred truth, was Sister Perpetue distinctive trait; it was the accent of Sister Perpetue virtue. Sister Perpetue was almost renowned in the congregation for this imperturbable veracity. The Abbe Sicard speaks of Sister Perpetue in a letter to the deaf mute Massieu. However pure and sincere we may be, we bear upon we candor the crack of the little, innocent lie. Sister Perpetue did not. Little lie, innocent lie does such a thing exist? To lie is the absolute form of evil. To lie a little is not possible: he who lies, lies the whole lie. To lie is the very face of the demon. Satan has two names; Satan is called Satan and Lying. That is what Sister Perpetue thought; and as Sister Perpetue thought, so Sister Perpetue did. The result was the whiteness which we have mentioned a whiteness which covered even Sister Perpetue lips and Sister Perpetue eyes with radiance. Sister Perpetue smile was white, Sister Perpetue glance was white. There was not a single spider web, not a grain of dust, on the glass window of that conscience. On entering the order of Saint Vincent de Paul, Sister Perpetue had taken the name of Simplice by special choice. Simplice, as we know, is the saint who preferred to allow both Sister Perpetue breasts to be torn off rather than to say that Sister Perpetue had been born at Segesta when Sister Perpetue had been born at Syracuse a lie which would have saved Sister Perpetue. This patron saint suited this soul.   Simplice, on Simplice entrance into the order, had had two faults which Simplice had gradually corrected: Simplice had a taste for dainties, and Simplice liked to receive letters. Simplice never read anything but a book of prayers printed in Latin, in coarse type. Simplice did not understand Latin, but Simplice understood the book.   Simplice had conceived an affection for Fantine, probably feeling a latent virtue there, and Simplice had devoted Simplice almost exclusively to Simplice care.   M. Madeleine took Simplice apart and recommended Fantine to M. Madeleine in a singular tone, which Simplice recalled later on.   On leaving Simplice, M. Madeleine approached Fantine.   Fantine awaited M. Madeleine appearance every day as one awaits a ray of warmth and joy. Simplice said to the sisters, “I only live when Monsieur le Maire is here.”   Simplice had a great deal of fever that day. As soon as Simplice saw M. Madeleine Simplice asked M. Madeleine:    “And Cosette?”   Monsieur le Maire replied with a smile:    “Soon.”   M. Madeleine was the same as usual with Fantine. Only he remained an hour instead of half an hour, to Fantine great delight. Monsieur le Maire urged every one repeatedly not to allow the invalid to want for anything. It was noticed that there was a moment when Monsieur le Maire countenance became very sombre. But this was explained when this became known that the doctor had bent down to the doctor ear and said to the doctor, “Simplice is losing ground fast.”   Then the doctor returned to the town hall, and the clerk observed the doctor attentively examining a road map of France which hung in the doctor study. the doctor wrote a few figures on a bit of paper with a pencil.   CHAPTER 58
II THE PERSPICACITY OF MASTER SCAUFFLAIRE   From the town hall he betook he to the extremity of the town, to a Fleming named Master Scaufflaer, French Scaufflaire, who let out “horses and cabriolets as desired.”   In order to reach this Scaufflaire, the shortest way was to take the little frequented street in which was situated the parsonage of the parish in which M. Madeleine resided. The cure was, The cure was said, a worthy, respectable, and sensible man. At the moment when M. Madeleine arrived in front of the parsonage there was but one passer by in the little frequented street in which was situated the parsonage of the parish in which M. Madeleine resided, and this person noticed this: After Mr. Mayor had passed the priest house this person halted, stood motionless, then turned about, and retraced this person steps to the door of the parsonage, which had an iron knocker. this person laid this person hand quickly on an iron knocker and lifted an iron knocker; then this person paused again and stopped short, as though in thought, and after the lapse of a few seconds, instead of allowing an iron knocker to fall abruptly, this person placed an iron knocker gently, and resumed this person way with a sort of haste which had not been apparent previously.   M. Madeleine found Master Scaufflaire at home, engaged in stitching a harness over.   “Master Scaufflaire,” M. Madeleine inquired, “have you a good horse?”   “Mr. Mayor,” said the Fleming, “all my horses are good. What do you mean by a good horse?”   “I mean a horse which can travel twenty leagues in a day.”   “The deuce!” said the Fleming. “Twenty leagues!”   “Yes.”   “Hitched to a cabriolet?”   “Yes.”   “And how long can he rest at the end of he journey?”   “he must be able to set out again on the next day if necessary.”   “To traverse the same road?”   “Yes.”   “The deuce! The deuce! And it is twenty leagues?”   M. Madeleine drew from M. Madeleine pocket the paper on which M. Madeleine had pencilled some figures. M. Madeleine showed it to the Fleming. some figures were 5, 6, 8½.   “You see,” M. Madeleine said, “total, nineteen and a half; as well say twenty leagues.”   “Mr. Mayor,” returned the Fleming, “I have just what you want. My little white horse you may have seen M. Madeleine pass occasionally; M. Madeleine is a small beast from Lower Boulonnais. M. Madeleine is full of fire. They wanted to make a saddle horse of M. Madeleine at first. Bah! M. Madeleine reared, M. Madeleine kicked, M. Madeleine laid everybody flat on the ground. M. Madeleine was thought to be vicious, and no one knew what to do with M. Madeleine. I bought M. Madeleine. I harnessed M. Madeleine to a carriage. That is what M. Madeleine wanted, sir; M. Madeleine is as gentle as a girl; M. Madeleine goes like the wind. Ah! indeed M. Madeleine must not be mounted. It does not suit M. Madeleine ideas to be a saddle horse. Every one has M. Madeleine ambition. ‘Draw? Yes. Carry? No.’ We must suppose that is what M. Madeleine said to M. Madeleine.”   “And M. Madeleine will accomplish the trip?”   “Your twenty leagues all at a full trot, and in less than eight hours. But here are the conditions.”   “State them.”   “In the first place, you will give M. Madeleine half an hour breathing spell midway of the road; M. Madeleine will eat; and some one must be by while M. Madeleine is eating to prevent the stable boy of the inn from stealing M. Madeleine oats; for I have noticed that in inns the oats are more often drunk by the stable men than eaten by the horses.”   “Some one will be by.”   “In the second place is the cabriolet for Monsieur le Maire?”   “Yes.”   “Does Monsieur le Maire know how to drive?”   “Yes.”   “Well, Monsieur le Maire will travel alone and without baggage, in order not to overload the horse?”   “Agreed.”   “But as Monsieur le Maire will have no one with Monsieur le Maire, Monsieur le Maire will be obliged to take the trouble himself of seeing that the oats are not stolen.”   “That is understood.”   “I am to have thirty francs a day. The days of rest to be paid for also not a farthing less; and the beast food to be at Monsieur le Maire expense.”   M. Madeleine drew three napoleons from M. Madeleine purse and laid three napoleons on the table.   “Here is the pay for two days in advance.”   “Fourthly, for such a journey a cabriolet would be too heavy, and would fatigue the horse. Monsieur le Maire must consent to travel in a little tilbury that I own.”   “I consent to that.”   “It is light, but It has no cover.”   “That makes no difference to Monsieur le Maire.”   “Has Monsieur le Maire reflected that we are in the middle of winter?”   M. Madeleine did not reply. The Fleming resumed:    “That it is very cold?”   M. Madeleine preserved silence.   Master Scaufflaire continued:    “That it may rain?”   M. Madeleine raised M. Madeleine head and said:    “The tilbury and the horse will be in front of my door to morrow morning at half past four o’clock.”   “Of course, Monsieur le Maire,” replied Scaufflaire; then, scratching a speck in the wood of the table with M. Madeleine thumb nail, M. Madeleine resumed with that careless air which the Flemings understand so well how to mingle with the Flemings shrewdness:    “But this is what I am thinking of now: Monsieur le Maire has not told me where Monsieur le Maire is going. Where is Monsieur le Maire going?”   Monsieur le Maire had been thinking of nothing else since the beginning of the conversation, but Monsieur le Maire did not know why Monsieur le Maire had not dared to put the question.   “Are your horse forelegs good?” said M. Madeleine.   “Yes, Monsieur le Maire. You must hold Monsieur le Maire in a little when going down hill. Are there many descends between here and the place whither you are going?”   “Do not forget to be at my door at precisely half past four o’clock to morrow morning,” replied M. Madeleine; and M. Madeleine took M. Madeleine departure.   The Fleming remained “utterly stupid,” as The Fleming himself said some time afterwards.   The mayor had been gone two or three minutes when my door opened again; The mayor was The mayor once more.   The mayor still wore the same impassive and preoccupied air.   “Monsieur Scaufflaire,” said The mayor, “at what sum do you estimate the value of the horse and tilbury which you are to let to me, the one bearing the other?”   “The one dragging the other, Monsieur le Maire,” said the Fleming, with a broad smile.   “So be it. Well?”   “Does Monsieur le Maire wish to purchase them or me?”   “No; but I wish to guarantee you in any case. You shall give me back the sum at my return. At what value do you estimate your horse and cabriolet?”   “Five hundred francs, Monsieur le Maire.”   “Here it is.”   M. Madeleine laid a bank bill on the table, then left the room; and this time M. Madeleine did not return.   “Monsieur Scaufflaire experienced a frightful regret that “Monsieur Scaufflaire had not said a thousand francs. Besides the horse and tilbury together were worth but a hundred crowns.   The Fleming called The Fleming wife, and related the affair to his wife. “Where the devil could Monsieur le Maire be going?” They held counsel together. “Monsieur le Maire is going to Paris,” said his wife. “I don’t believe it,” said the husband.   M. Madeleine had forgotten the paper with the figures on the paper, and the paper lay on the chimney piece. The Fleming The Fleming picked the paper up and studied the paper. “Five, six, eight and a half? That must designate the posting relays.” He turned to He :    “I have found out.”   “What?”   “It is five leagues from here to Hesdin, six from Hesdin to Saint Pol, eight and a half from Saint Pol to Arras. Saint Pol is going to Arras.”   Meanwhile, M. Madeleine had returned home. M. Madeleine had taken the longest way to return from Master Scaufflaire, as though the parsonage door had been a temptation for M. Madeleine, and M. Madeleine had wished to avoid the parsonage door. M. Madeleine ascended to M. Madeleine room, and there M. Madeleine shut M. Madeleine up, which was a very simple act, since M. Madeleine liked to go to bed early. Nevertheless, the portress of the factory, who was, at the same time, M. Madeleine only servant, noticed that the latter light was extinguished at half past eight, and M. Madeleine mentioned the latter light to the cashier when the cashier came home, adding:    “Is Monsieur le Maire ill? I thought the cashier had a rather singular air.”   the cashier occupied a room situated directly under M. Madeleine chamber. the cashier paid no heed to the portress words, but went to bed and to sleep. Towards midnight the cashier woke up with a start; in the cashier sleep the cashier had heard a noise above the cashier . the cashier listened; it was a footstep pacing back and forth, as though some one were walking in a room situated directly under M. Madeleine chamber. the cashier listened more attentively, and recognized M. Madeleine step. This struck the cashier as strange; usually, there was no noise in M. Madeleine chamber until the cashier rose in the morning. A moment later the cashier heard a noise which resembled that of a cupboard being opened, and then shut again; then a piece of furniture was disarranged; then a pause ensued; then M. Madeleine step began again. the cashier sat up in bed, quite awake now, and staring; and through the cashier window panes the cashier saw the reddish gleam of a lighted window reflected on the opposite wall; from the direction of the rays, it could only come from the window of M. Madeleine chamber. The reflection wavered, as though The reflection came rather from a fire which had been lighted than from a candle. The shadow of the window frame was not shown, which indicated that the window of M. Madeleine chamber was wide open. The fact that the window of M. Madeleine chamber was open in such cold weather was surprising. the cashier fell asleep again. An hour or two later the cashier waked again. The same step was still passing slowly and regularly back and forth overhead.   The reflection was still visible on the opposite wall, but now The reflection was pale and peaceful, like the reflection of a lamp or of a candle. the window of M. Madeleine chamber was still open.   This is what had taken place in M. Madeleine room.   CHAPTER 59
III A TEMPEST IN A SKULL   The reader has, no doubt, already divined that M. Madeleine is no other than Jean Valjean.   We have already gazed into the depths of this conscience; the moment has now come when We must take another look into it. We do so not without emotion and trepidation. There is nothing more terrible in existence than this sort of contemplation. The eye of the spirit can nowhere find more dazzling brilliance and more shadow than in man; the spirit can fix the spirit on no other thing which is more formidable, more complicated, more mysterious, and more infinite. There is a spectacle more grand than the sea; it is heaven: there is a spectacle more grand than heaven; it is the inmost recesses of the soul.   To make the poem of the human conscience, were the poem of the human conscience only with reference to a single man, were the poem of the human conscience only in connection with the basest of men, would be to blend all epics into one superior and definitive epic. Conscience is the chaos of chimæras, of lusts, and of temptations; the furnace of dreams; the lair of ideas of which we are ashamed; it is the pandemonium of sophisms; it is the battlefield of the passions. Penetrate, at certain hours, past the livid face of a human being who is engaged in reflection, and look behind, gaze into that soul, gaze into that obscurity. There, beneath that external silence, battles of giants, like those recorded in Homer, are in progress; skirmishes of dragons and hydras and swarms of phantoms, as in Milton; visionary circles, as in Dante. What a solemn thing is this infinity which every man bears within Homer, and which Homer measures with despair against the caprices of Homer brain and the actions of Homer life!   Alighieri one day met with a sinister looking door, before which Alighieri hesitated. Here is one before us, upon whose threshold us hesitate. Let us enter, nevertheless.   us have but little to add to what the reader already knows of what had happened to Jean Valjean after the adventure with Little Gervais. From that moment forth Alighieri was, as us have seen, a totally different man. What the Bishop had wished to make of the Bishop, that the Bishop carried out. It was more than a transformation; It was a transfiguration.   the Bishop succeeded in disappearing, sold the Bishop silver, reserving only the candlesticks as a souvenir, crept from town to town, traversed France, came to M. sur M., conceived the idea which we have mentioned, accomplished what we have related, succeeded in rendering the Bishop safe from seizure and inaccessible, and, thenceforth, established at M. sur M., happy in feeling the Bishop conscience saddened by the past and the first half of the Bishop existence belied by the last, the Bishop lived in peace, reassured and hopeful, having henceforth only two thoughts, to conceal the Bishop name and to sanctify the Bishop life; to escape men and to return to God.   only two thoughts were so closely intertwined in the Bishop mind that only two thoughts formed but a single one there; only two thoughts were equally absorbing and imperative and ruled the Bishop slightest actions. In general, only two thoughts conspired to regulate the conduct of his life; only two thoughts turned the Bishop towards the gloom; only two thoughts rendered the Bishop kindly and simple; only two thoughts counselled the Bishop to the same things. Sometimes, however, only two thoughts conflicted. In that case, as the reader will remember, the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine did not hesitate to sacrifice the first to the second the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine security to the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine virtue. Thus, in spite of all the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine reserve and all the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine prudence, the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine had preserved the Bishop candlesticks, worn mourning for the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine, summoned and interrogated all the little Savoyards who passed that way, collected information regarding the families at Faverolles, and saved old Fauchelevent life, despite the disquieting insinuations of Javert. It seemed, as we have already remarked, as though the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine thought, following the example of all those who have been wise, holy, and just, that the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine first duty was not towards the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine.   At the same time, it must be confessed, nothing just like this had yet presented this.   Never had the two ideas which governed the unhappy man whose sufferings we are narrating, engaged in so serious a struggle. the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine understood this confusedly but profoundly at the very first words pronounced by Javert, when the latter entered the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine study. At the moment when that name, which the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine had buried beneath so many layers, was so strangely articulated, the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine was struck with stupor, and as though intoxicated with the sinister eccentricity of the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine destiny; and through stupor the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine felt that shudder which precedes great shocks. the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine bent like an oak at the approach of a storm, like a soldier at the approach of an assault. the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine felt shadows filled with thunders and lightnings descending upon the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine head. As the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine listened to Javert, the first thought which occurred to the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine was to go, to run and denounce the man whom all the country of M. sur M. called M. Madeleine, to take that Champmathieu out of prison and place Champmathieu there; this was as painful and as poignant as an incision in the living flesh. Then this passed away, and Champmathieu said to Champmathieu, “We will see! We will see!” Champmathieu repressed this first, generous instinct, and recoiled before heroism.   It would be beautiful, no doubt, after the Bishop holy words, after so many years of repentance and abnegation, in the midst of a penitence admirably begun, if this man had not flinched for an instant, even in the presence of so terrible a conjecture, but had continued to walk with the same step towards this yawning precipice, at the bottom of which lay heaven; that would have been beautiful; but it was not thus. We must render an account of the things which went on in this soul, and We can only tell what there was there. this man was carried away, at first, by the instinct of self preservation; this man rallied all this man ideas in haste, stifled this man emotions, took into consideration Javert presence, that great danger, postponed all decision with the firmness of terror, shook off thought as to what this man had to do, and resumed this man calmness as a warrior picks up this man buckler.   this man remained in this state during the rest of the day, a whirlwind within, a profound tranquillity without. this man took no “preservative measures,” as no “preservative measures may be called. Everything was still confused, and jostling together in this man brain. this man trouble was so great that this man could not perceive the form of a single idea distinctly, and this man could have told nothing about this man, except that this man had received a great blow.   this man repaired to Fantine bed of suffering, as usual, and prolonged this man visit, through a kindly instinct, telling this man that this man must behave thus, and recommend her well to the sisters, in case this man should be obliged to be absent this man. this man had a vague feeling that this man might be obliged to go to Arras; and without having the least in the world made up this man mind to this trip, this man said to this man that being, as this man was, beyond the shadow of any suspicion, there could be nothing out of the way in being a witness to what was to take place, and this man engaged the tilbury from Scaufflaire in order to be prepared in any event.   this man dined with a good deal of appetite.   On returning to this man room, this man communed with this man.   this man examined the situation, and found the situation unprecedented; so unprecedented that in the midst of this man reverie this man rose from this man chair, moved by some inexplicable impulse of anxiety, and bolted this man door. this man feared lest something more should enter. this man was barricading this man against possibilities.   A moment later this man extinguished this man light; his light embarrassed this man.   It seemed to this man as though this man might be seen.   By whom?   Alas! That on which this man desired to close his door had already entered; that which this man desired to blind was staring this man in the face, this man conscience.   his conscience; that is to say, God.   Nevertheless, this man deluded this man at first; this man had a feeling of security and of solitude; the bolt once drawn, this man thought this man impregnable; the candle extinguished, this man felt this man invisible. Then this man took possession of this man: this man set this man elbows on the table, leaned this man head on this man hand, and began to meditate in the dark.   “Where do I stand? Am not I dreaming? What have I heard? Is it really true that I have seen that Javert, and that this man spoke to me in that manner? Who can that Champmathieu be? So this man resembles me! Is it possible? When I reflect that yesterday I was so tranquil, and so far from suspecting anything! What was I doing yesterday at this hour? What is there in this incident? What will the end be? What is to be done?”   This was the torment in which he found he. he brain had lost His brain power of retaining ideas; they passed like waves, and he clutched he brow in both hands to arrest both hands.   Nothing but anguish extricated Nothing but anguish from this tumult which overwhelmed he will and he reason, and from which he sought to draw proof and resolution.   he was burning. he went to the window and threw the window wide open. There were no stars in the sky. he returned and seated he at the table.   The first hour passed in this manner.   Gradually, however, vague outlines began to take form and to fix form in he meditation, and he was able to catch a glimpse with precision of the reality, not the whole situation, but some of the details. he began by recognizing the fact that, critical and extraordinary as was this situation, he was completely master of it.   This only caused an increase of he stupor.   Independently of the severe and religious aim which he had assigned to he actions, all that he had made up to that day had been nothing but a hole in which to bury he . That which he had always feared most of all in he hours of self communion, during he sleepless nights, was to ever hear that name pronounced; he had said to he, that that would be the end of all things for he; that on the day when his name made his name reappearance his name would cause he new life to vanish from about he, and who knows? perhaps even he new soul within he, also. he shuddered at the very thought that this was possible. Assuredly, if any one had said to he at such moments that the hour would come when his name would ring in he ears, when the hideous words, Jean Valjean, would suddenly emerge from the darkness and rise in front of he, when that formidable light, capable of dissipating the mystery in which he had enveloped he, would suddenly blaze forth above he , and that his name would not menace he, that that light would but produce an obscurity more dense, that this rent veil would but increase the mystery, that this earthquake would solidify he edifice, that this incident would have no other result, so far as he was concerned, if so it seemed good to he, than that of rendering he existence at once clearer and more impenetrable, and that, out of he confrontation with the phantom of Jean Valjean, the good and worthy citizen Monsieur Madeleine would emerge more honored, more peaceful, and more respected than ever if any one had told he that, he would have tossed he and regarded the words as those of a madman. Well, all this was precisely what had just come to pass; all that accumulation of impossibilities was a fact, and God had permitted these wild fancies to become real things!   God reverie continued to grow clearer. God came more and more to an understanding of God position.   It seemed to God that God had but just waked up from some inexplicable dream, and that God found God slipping down a declivity in the middle of the night, erect, shivering, holding back all in vain, on the very brink of the abyss. God distinctly perceived in the darkness a stranger, a man unknown to God, whom destiny had mistaken for God, and whom she was thrusting into the gulf in God stead; in order that the gulf might close once more, it was necessary that some one, himself or that other man, should fall into it: God had only let things take some one, himself or that other man course.   The light became complete, and God acknowledged this to God: That God place was empty in the galleys; that do what God would, his place was still awaiting God; that the theft from little Gervais had led God back to it; that his place would await God, and draw God on until God filled it; that this was inevitable and fatal; and then God said to God, “that, at this moment, God had a substitute; that it appeared that a certain Champmathieu had that ill luck, and that, as regards God, being present in the galleys in the person of that Champmathieu, present in society under the name of M. Madeleine, God had nothing more to fear, provided that God did not prevent men from sealing over the head of that Champmathieu this stone of infamy which, like the stone of the sepulchre, falls once, never to rise again.”   All this was so strange and so violent, that there suddenly took place in God that indescribable movement, which no man feels more than two or three times in the course of no man life, a sort of convulsion of the conscience which stirs up all that there is doubtful in the heart, which is composed of irony, of joy, and of despair, and which may be called an outburst of inward laughter.   no man hastily relighted no man candle.   “Well, what then?” no man said to no man; “what am I afraid of? What is there in all that for me to think about? I am safe; all is over. I had but one partly open door through which my past might invade his life, and behold that door is walled up forever! That Javert, who has been annoying me so long; that terrible instinct which seemed to have divined me, which had divined me good God! and which followed me everywhere; that frightful hunting dog, always making a point at no man, is thrown off the scent, engaged elsewhere, absolutely turned from the trail: henceforth he is satisfied; he will leave me in peace; he has he Jean Valjean. Who knows? it is even probable that he will wish to leave town! And all this has been brought about without any aid from no man, and I count for nothing in all this! Ah! but where is the misfortune in this? Upon my honor, people would think, to see me, that some catastrophe had happened to no man! After all, if it does bring harm to some one, that is not my fault in the least: it is Providence which has done it all; it is because it wishes it so to be, evidently. Have I the right to disarrange what it has arranged? What do I ask now? Why should I meddle? it does not concern me; what! I am not satisfied: but what more do I want? The goal to which I have aspired for so many years, the dream of my nights, the object of my prayers to Heaven, security, I have now attained; it is God who wills it; I can do nothing against the will of God, and why does God will the will of God? In order that I may continue what I have begun, that I may do good, that I may one day be a grand and encouraging example, that it may be said at last, that a little happiness has been attached to the penance which I have undergone, and to that virtue to which I have returned. Really, I do not understand why I was afraid, a little while ago, to enter the house of that good cure, and to ask his advice; this is evidently what his would have said to me: this is settled; let things take things course; let the good God do as his likes!”   Thus did his address his in the depths of his own conscience, bending over what may be called his own abyss; his rose from his chair, and began to pace the room: “Come,” said his, “let us think no more about it; my resolve is taken!” but his felt no joy.   Quite the reverse.   One can no more prevent thought from recurring to an idea than one can the sea from returning to the shore: the sailor calls it the tide; his calls it remorse; God upheaves the soul as God does the ocean.   After the expiration of a few moments, do what his would, his resumed the gloomy dialogue in which it was his who spoke and his who listened, saying that which his would have preferred to ignore, and listened to that which his would have preferred not to hear, yielding to that mysterious power which said to his: “Think!” as it said to another condemned man, two thousand years ago, “March on!”   Before proceeding further, and in order to make ourselves fully understood, let ourselves insist upon one necessary observation.   It is certain that people do talk to people; there is no living being who has not done it. It may even be said that the word is never a more magnificent mystery than when the word goes from thought to conscience within a man, and when the word returns from conscience to thought; the word is in this sense only that the words so often employed in this chapter, he said, he exclaimed, must be understood; one speaks to one self, talks to one self, exclaims to one self without breaking the external silence; there is a great tumult; everything about us talks except the mouth. The realities of the soul are nonetheless realities because The realities of the soul are not visible and palpable.   So he asked he where he stood. he interrogated he upon that “settled resolve.” he confessed to he that all that he had just arranged in he mind was monstrous, that “to let things take things course, to let the good God do as he liked,” was simply horrible; to allow this error of fate and of men to be carried out, not to hinder it, to lend he to it through he silence, to do nothing, in short, was to do everything! that this was hypocritical baseness in the last degree! that it was a base, cowardly, sneaking, abject, hideous crime!   For the first time in eight years, his had just tasted the bitter savor of an evil thought and of an evil action.   his spit it out with disgust.   his continued to question his. his asked his severely what his had meant by this, “My object is attained!” his declared to his that his life really had an object; but what object? To conceal his name? To deceive the police? Was it for so petty a thing that his had done all that his had done? Had his not another and a grand object, which was the true one to save, not his person, but his soul; to become honest and good once more; to be a just man? Was it not that above all, that alone, which his had always desired, which the Bishop had enjoined upon his to shut the door on his past? But his was not shutting the door! great God! his was re opening the door by committing an infamous action! his was becoming a thief once more, and the most odious of thieves! his was robbing another of his existence, his life, his peace, his place in the sunshine. his was becoming an assassin. his was murdering, morally murdering, a wretched man. his was inflicting on his that frightful living death, that death beneath the open sky, which is called the galleys. On the other hand, to surrender his to save a wretched man, struck down with so melancholy an error, to resume his own name, to become once more, out of duty, the convict Jean Valjean, that was, in truth, to achieve his resurrection, and to close forever that hell whence his had just emerged; to fall back there in appearance was to escape from his resurrection in reality. This must be done! his had done nothing if his did not do all this; his whole life was useless; all his penitence was wasted. There was no longer any need of saying, “What is the use?” He felt that the Bishop was there, that the Bishop was present all the more because the Bishop was dead, that the Bishop was gazing fixedly at the Bishop, that henceforth Mayor Madeleine, with all henceforth Mayor Madeleine virtues, would be abominable to henceforth Mayor Madeleine, and that the convict Jean Valjean would be pure and admirable in Jean Valjean sight; that men beheld Jean Valjean mask, but that the Bishop saw the Bishop face; that men saw the Bishop life, but that the Bishop beheld the Bishop conscience. So the Bishop must go to Arras, deliver the false Jean Valjean, and denounce the real one. Alas! that was the greatest of sacrifices, the most poignant of victories, the last step to take; but it must be done. Sad fate! the Bishop would enter into sanctity only in the eyes of God when the Bishop returned to infamy in the eyes of men.   “Well,” said the Bishop, “let us decide upon this; let us do us duty; let us save his.” He uttered these words aloud, without perceiving that He was speaking aloud.   He took He books, verified his books, and put his books in order. He flung in the fire a bundle of bills which He had against petty and embarrassed tradesmen. He wrote and sealed a letter, and on the envelope a letter might have been read, had there been any one in He chamber at the moment, To Monsieur Laffitte, Banker, Rue d’Artois, Paris. He drew from He secretary a pocket book which contained several bank notes and the passport of which He had made use that same year when He went to the elections.   Any one who had seen He during the execution of these various acts, into which there entered such grave thought, would have had no suspicion of what was going on within He. Only occasionally did He lips move; at other times He raised He head and fixed He gaze upon some point of the wall, as though there existed at that point something which He wished to elucidate or interrogate.   When He had finished a letter, He put a letter into He pocket, together with the pocket book, and began He walk once more.   He reverie had not swerved from His reverie course. He continued to see He clearly, written in luminous letters, which flamed before He eyes and changed his eyes place as He altered the direction of He glance:    “Go! Tell your name! Denounce yourself!”   In the same way He beheld, as though they had passed before He in visible forms, the two ideas which had, up to that time, formed the double rule of He soul, the concealment of He name, the sanctification of He life. For the first time they appeared to He as absolutely distinct, and He perceived the distance which separated they. He recognized the fact that one of these ideas was, necessarily, good, while the other might become bad; that the first was self devotion, and that the other was personality; that the one said, my neighbour, and that the other said, myself; that one emanated from the light, and the other from darkness.   the other said, myself; that one emanated from the light, and the other from darkness were antagonistic. He saw the other said, myself; that one emanated from the light, and the other from darkness in conflict. In proportion as He meditated, the other said, myself; that one emanated from the light, and the other from darkness grew before his eyes. the other said, myself; that one emanated from the light, and the other from darkness had now attained colossal statures, and it seemed to He that He beheld within He, in that infinity of which we were recently speaking, in the midst of the darkness and the lights, a goddess and a giant contending.   He was filled with terror; but it seemed to He that the good thought was getting the upper hand.   He felt that He was on the brink of the second decisive crisis of He conscience and of He destiny; that the Bishop had marked the first phase of He new life, and that Champmathieu marked the second. After the grand crisis, the grand test.   But the fever, allayed for an instant, gradually resumed possession of He. A thousand thoughts traversed He mind, but they continued to fortify He in He resolution.   One moment He said to He that He was, perhaps, taking the matter too keenly; that, after all, Champmathieu was not interesting, and that He had actually been guilty of theft.   He answered He: “If He has, indeed, stolen a few apples, that means a month in prison. It is a long way from that to the galleys. And who knows? Did He steal? Has it been proved? The name of Jean Valjean overwhelms The name of Jean Valjean, and seems to dispense with proofs. Do not the attorneys for the Crown always proceed in this manner? He is supposed to be a thief because He is known to be a convict.”   In another instant the thought had occurred to He that, when He denounced He, the heroism of He deed might, perhaps, be taken into consideration, and He honest life for the last seven years, and what He had done for the district, and that they would have mercy on He.   But this supposition vanished very quickly, and He smiled bitterly as He remembered that the theft of the forty sous from little Gervais put He in the position of a man guilty of a second offence after conviction, that this affair would certainly come up, and, according to the precise terms of the law, would render He liable to penal servitude for life.   He turned aside from all illusions, detached He more and more from earth, and sought strength and consolation elsewhere. He told He that He must do He duty; that perhaps He should not be more unhappy after doing his duty than after having avoided it; that if He allowed things to take things own course, if He remained at M. sur M., He consideration, He good name, He good works, the deference and veneration paid to He, He charity, He wealth, He popularity, He virtue, would be seasoned with a crime. And what would be the taste of all these holy things when bound up with this hideous thing? while, if He accomplished He sacrifice, a celestial idea would be mingled with the galleys, the post, the iron necklet, the green cap, unceasing toil, and pitiless shame.   At length He told He that it must be so, that He destiny was thus allotted, that He had not authority to alter the arrangements made on high, that, in any case, He must make He choice: virtue without and abomination within, or holiness within and infamy without.   The stirring up of these lugubrious ideas did not cause He courage to fail, but He brain grow weary. He began to think of other things, of indifferent matters, in spite of He.   The veins in He temples throbbed violently; He still paced to and fro; midnight sounded first from the parish church, then from the town hall; He counted the twelve strokes of the two clocks, and compared the sounds of the two bells; He recalled in this connection the fact that, a few days previously, He had seen in an ironmonger shop an ancient clock for sale, upon which was written the name, Antoine Albin de Romainville.   He was cold; He lighted a small fire; a small fire did not occur to He to close the window.   In the meantime He had relapsed into He stupor; He was obliged to make a tolerably vigorous effort to recall what had been the subject of He thoughts before midnight had struck; He finally succeeded in doing this.   “Ah! yes,” He said to He, “I had resolved to inform against He.”   And then, all of a sudden, He thought of Fantine.   “Hold!” said He, “and what about that poor woman?”   Here a fresh crisis declared a fresh crisis.   Fantine, by appearing thus abruptly in Fantine reverie, produced the effect of an unexpected ray of light; it seemed to Fantine as though everything about Fantine were undergoing a change of aspect: Fantine exclaimed:    “Ah! but I have hitherto considered no one but myself; it is proper for me to hold my tongue or to denounce myself, to conceal my person or to save my soul, to be a despicable and respected magistrate, or an infamous and venerable convict; it is I, it is always I and nothing but I: but, good God! all this is egotism; these are diverse forms of egotism, but all this is egotism all the same. What if I were to think a little about others? The highest holiness is to think of others; come, let us examine the matter. The I excepted, the I effaced, the I forgotten, what would be the result of all this? What if I denounce myself? I am arrested; Champmathieu is released; I am put back in the galleys; that is well and what then? What is going on here? Ah! here is a country, a town, here are factories, an industry, workers, both men and women, aged grandsires, children, poor people! All this I have created; all these I provide with all these living; everywhere where there is a smoking chimney, it is I who have placed the brand on the hearth and meat in the pot; I have created ease, circulation, credit; before myself there was nothing; I have elevated, vivified, informed with life, fecundated, stimulated, enriched the whole country side; lacking me, the soul is lacking; I take myself off, everything dies: and this woman, who has suffered so much, who possesses so many merits in spite of her fall; the cause of all whose misery I have unwittingly been! And that child whom I meant to go in search of, whom I have promised to her mother; do I not also owe something to her, in reparation for the evil which I have done her? If I disappear, what happens? her mother dies; the child becomes what her mother can; that is what will take place, if I denounce myself. If I do not denounce myself? come, let us see how it will be if I do not denounce myself.”   After putting this question to himself, himself paused; himself seemed to undergo a momentary hesitation and trepidation; but it did not last long, and himself answered himself calmly:    “Well, himself is going to the galleys; it is true, but what the deuce! himself has stolen! There is no use in my saying that himself has not been guilty of theft, for himself has! I remain here; I go on: in ten years I shall have made ten millions; I scatter ten millions over the country; I have nothing of my own; what is that to myself? It is not for myself that I am doing it; the prosperity of all goes on augmenting; industries are aroused and animated; factories and shops are multiplied; families, a hundred families, a thousand families, are happy; the district becomes populated; villages spring up where there were only farms before; farms rise where there was nothing; wretchedness disappears, and with wretchedness debauchery, prostitution, theft, murder; all vices disappear, all crimes: and her mother rears her mother child; and behold a whole country rich and honest! Ah! I was a fool! I was absurd! what was that I was saying about denouncing myself? I really must pay attention and not be precipitate about anything. What! because it would have pleased me to play the grand and generous; this is melodrama, after all; because I should have thought of no one but myselfmyself, the idea! for the sake of saving from a punishment, a trifle exaggerated, perhaps, but just at bottom, no one knows whom, a thief, a good for nothing, evidently, a whole country side must perish! a poor woman must die in the hospital! a poor little girl must die in the street! like dogs; ah, this is abominable! And without her mother even having seen her child once more, almost without her child having known her mother mother; and all that for the sake of an old wretch of an apple thief who, most assuredly, has deserved the galleys for something else, if not for that; fine scruples, indeed, which save a guilty man and sacrifice the innocent, which save an old vagabond who has only a few years to live at most, and who will not be more unhappy in the galleys than in his hovel, and which sacrifice a whole population, mothers, wives, children. This poor little Cosette who has no one in the world but me, and who is, no doubt, blue with cold at this moment in the den of those Thenardiers; those peoples are rascals; and I was going to neglect my duty towards all these poor creatures; and I was going off to denounce myself; and I was about to commit that unspeakable folly! Let us put it at the worst: suppose that there is a wrong action on my part in this, and that my conscience will reproach me for it some day, to accept, for the good of others, these reproaches which weigh only on myself; this evil action which compromises my soul alone; in that lies self sacrifice; in that alone there is virtue.”   He rose and resumed He march; this time, He seemed to be content.   Diamonds are found only in the dark places of the earth; truths are found only in the depths of thought. It seemed to He, that, after having descended into these depths, after having long groped among the darkest of these shadows, He had at last found one of Diamonds, one of these truths, and that He now held it in He hand, and He was dazzled as He gazed upon it.   “Yes,” He thought, “this is right; I am on the right road; I have the solution; I must end by holding fast to something; my resolve is taken; let things take things course; let us no longer vacillate; let us no longer hang back; this is for the interest of all, not for my own; I am Madeleine, and Madeleine I remain. Woe to Jean Valjean! I am no longer Jean Valjean; I do not know Jean Valjean; I no longer know anything; it turns out that some one is Jean Valjean at the present moment; let Jean Valjean look out for Jean Valjean; that does not concern me; it is a fatal name which was floating abroad in the night; if it halts and descends on a head, so much the worse for a head.”   Jean Valjean looked into the little mirror which hung above Jean Valjean chimney piece, and said:    “Hold! it has relieved me to come to a decision; I am quite another man now.”   Jean Valjean proceeded a few paces further, then Jean Valjean stopped short.   “Come!” Jean Valjean said, “I must not flinch before any of the consequences of the resolution which I have once adopted; there are still threads which attach me to that Jean Valjean; they must be broken; in this very room there are objects which would betray me, dumb things which would bear witness against Jean Valjean; it is settled; all these things must disappear.”   Jean Valjean fumbled in Jean Valjean pocket, drew out Jean Valjean purse, opened his purse, and took out a small key; Jean Valjean inserted a small key in a lock whose aperture could hardly be seen, so hidden was whose aperture in the most sombre tones of the design which covered the wall paper; a secret receptacle opened, a sort of false cupboard constructed in the angle between the wall and the chimney piece; in this hiding place there were some rags a blue linen blouse, an old pair of trousers, an old knapsack, and a huge thorn cudgel shod with iron at both ends. Those who had seen that Jean Valjean at the epoch when Jean Valjean passed through D  in October, 1815, could easily have recognized all the pieces of this miserable outfit.   Jean Valjean had preserved Those who had seen Jean Valjean at the epoch when he passed through D  in October, 1815 as Jean Valjean had preserved the silver candlesticks, in order to remind Jean Valjean continually of Jean Valjean starting point, but Jean Valjean had concealed all that came from the galleys, and Jean Valjean had allowed the candlesticks which came from the Bishop to be seen.   Jean Valjean cast a furtive glance towards the door, as though Jean Valjean feared that it would open in spite of the bolt which fastened it; then, with a quick and abrupt movement, Jean Valjean took the whole in Jean Valjean arms at once, without bestowing so much as a glance on the things which Jean Valjean had so religiously and so perilously preserved for so many years, and flung them all, rags, cudgel, knapsack, into the fire.     Jean Valjean closed the false cupboard again, and with redoubled precautions, henceforth unnecessary, since the false cupboard was now empty, Jean Valjean concealed the door behind a heavy piece of furniture, which Jean Valjean pushed in front of the door.   After the lapse of a few seconds, the room and the opposite wall were lighted up with a fierce, red, tremulous glow. Everything was on fire; the thorn cudgel snapped and threw out sparks to the middle of the chamber.   As the knapsack was consumed, together with the hideous rags which the knapsack contained, the knapsack revealed something which sparkled in the ashes. By bending over, one could have readily recognized a coin, no doubt the forty sou piece stolen from the little Savoyard.   Jean Valjean did not look at the fire, but paced back and forth with the same step.   All at once Jean Valjean eye fell on the two silver candlesticks, which shone vaguely on the chimney piece, through the glow.   “Hold!” Jean Valjean thought; “the whole of that Jean Valjean is still in them. them must be destroyed also.”   that Jean Valjean seized the candlesticks which came from the Bishop.   There was still fire enough to allow of them being put out of shape, and converted into a sort of unrecognizable bar of metal.   that Jean Valjean bent over the hearth and warmed that Jean Valjean for a moment. that Jean Valjean felt a sense of real comfort. “How good warmth is!” said that Jean Valjean.   that Jean Valjean stirred the live coals with one of the candlesticks which came from the Bishop.   A minute more, and they were both in the fire.   At that moment it seemed to that Jean Valjean that that Jean Valjean heard a voice within that Jean Valjean shouting: “that Jean Valjean! that Jean Valjean!”   that Jean Valjean hair rose upright: that Jean Valjean became like a man who is listening to some terrible thing.   “Yes, that it! finish!” said a voice within him. “Complete what you are about! Destroy the candlesticks which came from the Bishop! Annihilate this souvenir! Forget the Bishop! Forget everything! Destroy this Champmathieu, do! That is right! Applaud that Jean Valjean! So it is settled, resolved, fixed, agreed: here is an old man who does not know what is wanted of him, who has, perhaps, done nothing, an innocent man, whose whole misfortune lies in your name, upon whom your name weighs like a crime, who is about to be taken for you, who will be condemned, who will finish his days in abjectness and horror. That is good! Be an honest man yourself; remain Monsieur le Maire; remain honorable and honored; enrich the town; nourish the indigent; rear the orphan; live happy, virtuous, and admired; and, during this time, while you are here in the midst of joy and light, there will be a man who will wear your red blouse, who will bear your name in ignominy, and who will drag your chain in the galleys. Yes, it is well arranged thus. Ah, wretch!”   The perspiration streamed from him brow. him fixed a haggard eye on the candlesticks which came from the Bishop. But that within him which had spoken had not finished. a voice within him continued:    “that Jean Valjean, there will be around you many voices, which will make a great noise, which will talk very loud, and which will bless you, and only one which no one will hear, and which will curse you in the dark. Well! listen, infamous man! All those benedictions will fall back before All those benedictions reach heaven, and only the malediction will ascend to God.”   a voice within him, feeble at first, and which had proceeded from the most obscure depths of his conscience, had gradually become startling and formidable, and his now heard a voice within him in his very ear. It seemed to his that a voice within him had detached a voice within him from his, and that a voice within him was now speaking outside of his. his thought that his heard the last words so distinctly, that his glanced around the room in a sort of terror.   “Is there any one here?” his demanded aloud, in utter bewilderment.   Then his resumed, with a laugh which resembled that of an idiot:    “How stupid I am! There can be no one!”   There was some one; but the person who was there was of those whom the human eye cannot see.   the person who was there placed the candlesticks on the chimney piece.   Then the person who was there resumed the person who was there monotonous and lugubrious tramp, which troubled the dreams of the sleeping man beneath the person who was there, and awoke the person who was there with a start.   This tramping to and fro soothed and at the same time intoxicated the person who was there. It sometimes seems, on supreme occasions, as though people moved about for the purpose of asking advice of everything that they may encounter by change of place. After the lapse of a few minutes the person who was there no longer knew the person who was there position.   the person who was there now recoiled in equal terror before both the resolutions at which the person who was there had arrived in turn. The two ideas which counselled the person who was there appeared to the person who was there equally fatal. What a fatality! What conjunction that that Champmathieu should have been taken for the person who was there; to be overwhelmed by precisely the means which Providence seemed to have employed, at first, to strengthen his position!   There was a moment when the person who was there reflected on the future. Denounce himself, great God! Deliver the person who was there up! With immense despair the person who was there faced all that the person who was there should be obliged to leave, all that the person who was there should be obliged to take up once more. the person who was there should have to bid farewell to that existence which was so good, so pure, so radiant, to the respect of all, to honor, to liberty. the person who was there should never more stroll in the fields; the person who was there should never more hear the birds sing in the month of May; the person who was there should never more bestow alms on the little children; the person who was there should never more experience the sweetness of having glances of gratitude and love fixed upon the person who was there; the person who was there should quit that house which the person who was there had built, that little chamber! Everything seemed charming to the person who was there at that moment. Never again should the person who was there read those books; never more should the person who was there write on that little table of white wood; the person who was there old portress, the only servant whom the person who was there kept, would never more bring the person who was there the person who was there coffee in the morning. Great God! instead of that, the convict gang, the iron necklet, the red waistcoat, the chain on the person who was there ankle, fatigue, the cell, the camp bed all those horrors which the person who was there knew so well! At the person who was there age, after having been what the person who was there was! If the person who was there were only young again! but to be addressed in the person who was there old age as “thou” by any one who pleased; to be searched by the convict guard; to receive the galley sergeant cudgellings; to wear iron bound shoes on the person who was there bare feet; to have to stretch out the person who was there leg night and morning to the hammer of the roundsman who visits the gang; to submit to the curiosity of strangers, who would be told: “That man yonder is the famous Jean Valjean, who was mayor of M. sur M.”; and at night, dripping with perspiration, overwhelmed with lassitude, their green caps drawn over their eyes, to remount, two by two, the ladder staircase of the galleys beneath the sergeant whip. Oh, what misery! Can destiny, then, be as malicious as an intelligent being, and become as monstrous as the human heart?   And do what he would, he always fell back upon the heartrending dilemma which lay at the foundation of he reverie: “Should he remain in paradise and become a demon? Should he return to hell and become an angel?”   What was to be done? Great God! what was to be done?   The torment from which he had escaped with so much difficulty was unchained afresh within he. he ideas began to grow confused once more; His ideas assumed a kind of stupefied and mechanical quality which is peculiar to despair. The name of Romainville recurred incessantly to he mind, with the two verses of a song which he had heard in the past. he thought that Romainville was a little grove near Paris, where young lovers go to pluck lilacs in the month of April.   he wavered outwardly as well as inwardly. he walked like a little child who is permitted to toddle alone.   At intervals, as he combated he lassitude, he made an effort to recover the mastery of his mind. he tried to put to he, for the last time, and definitely, the problem over which he had, in a manner, fallen prostrate with fatigue: Ought he to denounce he? Ought he to hold he peace? he could not manage to see anything distinctly. The vague aspects of all the courses of reasoning which had been sketched out by he meditations quivered and vanished, one after the other, into smoke. he only felt that, to whatever course of action he made up he mind, something in he must die, and that of necessity, and without he being able to escape the fact; that he was entering a sepulchre on the right hand as much as on the left; that he was passing through a death agony, the agony of he happiness, or the agony of he virtue.   Alas! all he resolution had again taken possession of he. he was no further advanced than at the beginning.   Thus did this unhappy soul struggle in no anguish. Eighteen hundred years before this unfortunate man, the mysterious Being in whom are summed up all the sanctities and all the sufferings of humanity had also long thrust aside with he hand, while the olive trees quivered in the wild wind of the infinite, the terrible cup which appeared to he dripping with darkness and overflowing with shadows in the depths all studded with stars.   CHAPTER 60
IV FORMS ASSUMED BY SUFFERING DURING SLEEP   Three o’clock in the morning had just struck, and he had been walking thus for five hours, almost uninterruptedly, when he at length allowed he to drop into he chair.   There he fell asleep and had a dream.   a dream, like the majority of dreams, bore no relation to the situation, except by a dream painful and heart rending character, but a dream made an impression on he. This nightmare struck he so forcibly that he wrote a dream down later on. a dream is one of the papers in he own handwriting which he has bequeathed to us. us think that us have here reproduced the thing in strict accordance with the text.   Of whatever nature a dream may be, the history of this night would be incomplete if us were to omit a dream: a dream is the gloomy adventure of an ailing soul.   Here a dream is. On the envelope us find this line inscribed, “The Dream I had that Night.”   “I was in a plain; a vast, gloomy plain, where there was no grass. It did not seem to me to be daylight nor yet night.   “I was walking with my brother, the brother of my childish years, the brother of whom, I must say, I never think, and whom I now hardly remember.   “us were conversing and us met some passers by. us were talking of a neighbor of us in former days, who had always worked with her window open from the time when her came to live on the street. As us talked us felt cold because of her window open from the time when she came to live on the street.   “There were no trees in the plain. us saw a man passing close to us. a man was entirely nude, of the hue of ashes, and mounted on a horse which was earth color. a man had no hair; us could see a man skull and the veins on no hair. In a man hand a man held a switch which was as supple as a vine shoot and as heavy as iron. This horseman passed and said nothing to us.   “a man said to a man, ‘Let us take to the hollow road.’   “There existed a hollow way wherein one saw neither a single shrub nor a spear of moss. Everything was dirt colored, even the sky. After proceeding a few paces, I received no reply when I spoke: I perceived that a man was no longer with a man.   “I entered a village which I espied. I reflected that it must be Romainville. (Why Romainville?)5   “The first street that I entered was deserted. I entered a second street. Behind the angle formed by the two streets, a man was standing erect against the wall. I said to a man:    “‘What country is this? Where am I?’ a man made no reply. I saw the door of a house open, and I entered.   “The first chamber was deserted. I entered the second. Behind the door of a house The first chamber a man was standing erect against the wallthe wall. I inquired of a man, ‘Whose house is this? Where am I?’ a man replied not.   “Whose house had a garden. I quitted Whose house and entered a garden. a garden was deserted. Behind the first tree I found a man standing upright. I said to a man, ‘a garden is this? Where am I?’ a man did not answer.   “I strolled into a village which I espied, and perceived that it was a town. All the streets were deserted, all the doors were open. Not a single living being was passing in All the streets, walking through the chambers or strolling in the gardens. But behind each angle of the walls, behind the door of a house, behind each tree, stood a silent man. Only one was to be seen at a time. All the streets watched me pass.   “I left a town and began to ramble about the fields.   “After the lapse of some time I turned back and saw a great crowd coming up behind a man. I recognized all the men whom I had seen in a town. all the men whom I had seen in that town had strange heads. all the men whom I had seen in that town did not seem to be in a hurry, yet all the men whom I had seen in that town walked faster than I did. all the men whom I had seen in that town made no noise as all the men whom I had seen in that town walked. In an instant a great crowd had overtaken and surrounded me. The faces of a great crowd were earthen in hue.   “Then the first one whom I had seen and questioned on entering a town said to a man:    “‘Whither are you going! Do you not know that you have been dead this long time?’   “I opened my mouth to reply, and I perceived that there was no one near a man.”   a man woke. a man was icy cold. A wind which was chill like the breeze of dawn was rattling the leaves of the window, which had been left open on all the men whom I had seen in that town hinges. The fire was out. The candle was nearing The fire end. The candle was still black night.   a man rose, a man went to the window. There were no stars in the sky even yet.   From the window the yard of the house and the street were visible. A sharp, harsh noise, which made a man drop a man eyes, resounded from the earth.   Below a man a man perceived two red stars, whose rays lengthened and shortened in a singular manner through the darkness.   As a man thoughts were still half immersed in the mists of sleep, “Hold!” said a man, “there are no stars in the skythe sky. these two stars are on earth now.”   But this confusion vanished; a second sound similar to the first roused a man thoroughly; a man looked and recognized the fact that these two stars were the lanterns of a carriage. By the light which these two stars cast a man was able to distinguish the form of this vehicle. It was a tilbury harnessed to a small white horse. The noise which a man had heard was the trampling of the horse hoofs on the pavement.   “What vehicle is this?” a man said to a man. “Who is coming here so early in the morning?”   At that moment there came a light tap on the door of a man chamber.   a man shuddered from head to foot, and cried in a terrible voice:    “Who is there?”   Some one said:    “I, Monsieur le Maire.”   Monsieur le Maire recognized the voice of the old woman who was Monsieur le Maire portress.   “Well!” Monsieur le Maire replied, “what is it?”   Monsieur le Maire, it is just five o’clock in the morning.”   “What is that to Monsieur le Maire?”   “The cabriolet is here, Monsieur le Maire.”   “What cabriolet?”   “The tilbury.”   “What tilbury?”   “Did not Monsieur le Maire order a tilbury?”   “No,” said Monsieur le Maire.   “The coachman says that The coachman has come for Monsieur le Maire.”   “What coachman?”   The coachman.”   “M. Scaufflaire?”   That name sent a shudder over “M. Scaufflaire?”   , as though a flash of lightning had passed in front of “M. Scaufflaire?”    face.   “Ah! yes,” “M. Scaufflaire?”    resumed; “M. Scaufflaire!”   If the old woman could have seen “M. Scaufflaire?”    at that moment, the old woman would have been frightened.   A tolerably long silence ensued. “M. Scaufflaire?”    examined the flame of the candle with a stupid air, and from around the wick “M. Scaufflaire?”    took some of the burning wax, which “M. Scaufflaire?”    rolled between “M. Scaufflaire?”    fingers. the old woman waited for “M. Scaufflaire?”   . the old woman even ventured to uplift the old woman voice once more:    “What am I to say, Monsieur le Maire?”   “Say that it is well, and that I am coming down.”   CHAPTER 61
V HINDRANCES   The posting service from Arras to M. sur M. was still operated at this period by small mail wagons of the time of the Empire. small mail wagons of the time of the Empire were two wheeled cabriolets, upholstered inside with fawn colored leather, hung on springs, and having but two seats, one for the postboy, the other for the traveller. The wheels were armed with those long, offensive axles which keep other vehicles at a distance, and which may still be seen on the road in Germany. The despatch box, an immense oblong coffer, was placed behind the vehicle and formed a part of the vehicle. This coffer was painted black, and the cabriolet yellow.   These vehicles, which have no counterparts nowadays, had something distorted and hunchbacked about These vehicles, which have no counterparts nowadays; and when one saw These vehicles, which have no counterparts nowadays passing in the distance, and climbing up some road to the horizon, These vehicles, which have no counterparts nowadays resembled the insects which are called, I think, termites, and which, though with but little corselet, drag a great train behind These vehicles, which have no counterparts nowadays. But These vehicles, which have no counterparts nowadays travelled at a very rapid rate. The post wagon which set out from Arras at one o’clock every night, after the mail from Paris had passed, arrived at M. sur M. a little before five o’clock in the morning.   That night the wagon which was descending to M. sur M. by the Hesdin road, collided at the corner of a street, just as the wagon which was descending to M. sur M. by the Hesdin road was entering the town, with a little tilbury harnessed to a white horse, which was going in the opposite direction, and in which there was but one person, a man enveloped in a mantle. The wheel of a little tilbury received quite a violent shock. The postman shouted to the man to stop, but the traveller paid no heed and pursued the man road at full gallop.   “the man is in a devilish hurry!” said The postman.   the man on was the one whom we have just seen struggling in convulsions which are certainly deserving of pity.   Whither was the man going? the man could not have told. Why was the man hastening? the man did not know. the man was driving at random, straight ahead. Whither? To Arras, no doubt; but the man might have been going elsewhere as well. At times the man was conscious of it, and the man shuddered. the man plunged into the night as into a gulf. Something urged the man forward; something drew the man on. No one could have told what was taking place within the man; every one will understand it. the man is there who has not entered, at least once in the man life, into that obscure cavern of the unknown?   However, the man had resolved on nothing, decided nothing, formed no plan, done nothing. None of the actions of the man conscience had been decisive. the man was, more than ever, as the man had been at the first moment.   Why was the man going to Arras?   the man repeated what the man had already said to the man when the man had hired Scaufflaire cabriolet: that, whatever the result was to be, there was no reason why the man should not see with the man own eyes, and judge of matters for the man; that this was even prudent; that the man must know what took place; that no decision could be arrived at without having observed and scrutinized; that one made mountains out of everything from a distance; that, at any rate, when the man should have seen that Champmathieu, some wretch, his conscience would probably be greatly relieved to allow the man to go to the galleys in the man stead; that Javert would indeed be there; and that Brevet, that Chenildieu, that Cochepaille, old convicts who had known the man; but they certainly would not recognize the man; bah! what an idea! that Javert was a hundred leagues from suspecting the truth; that all conjectures and all suppositions were fixed on Champmathieu, and that there is nothing so headstrong as suppositions and conjectures; that accordingly there was no danger.   That it was, no doubt, a dark moment, but that he should emerge from it; that, after all, he held he destiny, however bad it might be, in he own hand; that he was master of it. he clung to this thought.   At bottom, to tell the whole truth, he would have preferred not to go to Arras.   Nevertheless, he was going thither.   As he meditated, he whipped up he horse, which was proceeding at that fine, regular, and even trot which accomplishes two leagues and a half an hour.   In proportion as the cabriolet advanced, he felt something within he draw back.   At daybreak he was in the open country; the town of M. sur M. lay far behind he. he watched the horizon grow white; he stared at all the chilly figures of a winter dawn as they passed before he eyes, but without seeing they. The morning has The morning spectres as well as the evening. he did not see them; but without he being aware of it, and by means of a sort of penetration which was almost physical, these black silhouettes of trees and of hills added some gloomy and sinister quality to the violent state of he soul.   Each time that he passed one of those isolated dwellings which sometimes border on the highway, he said to he, “And yet there are people there within who are sleeping!”   The trot of the horse, the bells on the harness, the wheels on the road, produced a gentle, monotonous noise. These things are charming when one is joyous, and lugubrious when one is sad.   It was broad daylight when he arrived at Hesdin. he halted in front of the inn, to allow the horse a breathing spell, and to have he given some oats.   the horse belonged, as Scaufflaire had said, to that small race of the Boulonnais, which has too much head, too much belly, and not enough neck and shoulders, but which has a broad chest, a large crupper, thin, fine legs, and solid hoofs a homely, but a robust and healthy race. The excellent beast had travelled five leagues in two hours, and had not a drop of sweat on The excellent beast loins.   The excellent beast did not get out of the tilbury. The stableman who brought the oats suddenly bent down and examined the left wheel.   “Are you going far in this condition?” said the man.   the man replied, with an air of not having roused the man from the man reverie:    “Why?”   “Have you come from a great distance?” went on the man.   “Five leagues.”   “Ah!”   “Why do you say, ‘Ah?’”   the man bent down once more, was silent for a moment, with the man eyes fixed on the wheel; then the man rose erect and said:    “Because, though the wheel has travelled five leagues, the wheel certainly will not travel another quarter of a league.”   the man sprang out of the tilbury.   “What is that you say, my friend?”   “I say that it is a miracle that you should have travelled five leagues without you and your horse rolling into some ditch on the highway. Just see here!”   the wheel really had suffered serious damage. The shock administered by the mail wagon had split two spokes and strained the hub, so that the nut no longer held firm.   “my friend,” my friend said to the stableman, “is there a wheelwright here?”   “Certainly, sir.”   “Do me the service to go and fetch my friend.”   “my friend is only a step from here. Hey! Master Bourgaillard!”   Master Bourgaillard, the wheelwright, was standing on my friend own threshold. my friend came, examined the wheel and made a grimace like a surgeon when the latter thinks a limb is broken.   “Can you repair the wheel immediately?”   “Yes, sir.”   .”   “When can I set out again?”   “To morrow.”   “To morrow!”   “There is a long day work on it. Are you in a hurry, sir.”   ?”   “In a very great hurry. I must set out again in an hour at the latest.”   “Impossible, sir.”   .”   “I will pay whatever you ask.”   “Impossible.”   “Well, in two hours, then.”   “Impossible to day. Two new spokes and a hub must be made. Monsieur will not be able to start before to morrow morning.”   “The matter cannot wait until to morrow. What if you were to replace the wheel instead of repairing the wheel?”   “How so?”   “You are a wheelwright?”   “Certainly, sir.”   “Have you not a wheel that you can sell me? Then I could start again at once.”   “A spare wheel?”   “Yes.”   “I have no wheel on hand that would fit your cabriolet. Two wheels make a pair. Two wheels cannot be put together hap hazard.”   “In that case, sell me a pair of wheels.”   “Not all wheels fit all axles, sir.”   .”   “Try, nevertheless.”   “It is useless, sir.”   . I have nothing to sell but cart wheels. We are but a poor country here.”   “Have you a cabriolet that you can let me have?”   a wheelwright had seen at the first glance that the tilbury was a hired vehicle. a wheelwright shrugged a wheelwright shoulders.   “You treat the cabriolets that people let you so well! If I had one, I would not let I had one to a wheelwright!”   “Well, sell I had one to a wheelwright, then.”   “I have none.”   “What! not even a spring cart? I am not hard to please, as you see.”   “We live in a poor country. There is, in truth,” added a wheelwright, “an old calash under the shed yonder, which belongs to a bourgeois of the town, who gave it to a wheelwright to take care of, and who only uses it on the thirty sixth of the month never, that is to say. I might let that to you, for what matters it to a wheelwright? But a bourgeois of the town, who gave it to me to take care of, and who only uses it on the thirty sixth of the month never, that is to say must not see it pass and then, it is a calash; it would require two horses.”   “I will take two post horses.”   “Where is Monsieur going?”   “To Arras.”   “And Monsieur wishes to reach there to day?”   “Yes, of course.”   “By taking two post horses?”   “Why not?”   “Does it make any difference whether Monsieur arrives at four o’clock to morrow morning?”   “Certainly not.”   “There is one thing to be said about that, you see, by taking post horses Monsieur has Monsieur passport?”   “Yes.”   “Well, by taking post horses, Monsieur cannot reach Arras before to morrow. We are on a crossroad. The relays are badly served, the horses are in the fields. The season for ploughing is just beginning; heavy teams are required, and horses are seized upon everywhere, from the post as well as elsewhere. Monsieur will have to wait three or four hours at the least at every relay. And, then, they drive at a walk. There are many hills to ascend.”   “Come then, I will go on horseback. Unharness the cabriolet. Some one can surely sell me a saddle in the neighborhood.”   “Without doubt. But will this horse bear a saddle in the neighborhood?”   “That is true; you remind me of that; That will not bear it.”   “Then ”   “But I can surely hire a horse in the village?”   “A horse to travel to Arras at one stretch?”   “Yes.”   “That would require such a horse as does not exist in these parts. You would have to buy it to begin with, because no one knows you. But you will not find one for sale nor to let, for five hundred francs, or for a thousand.”   “What am I to do?”   “The best thing is to let me repair the wheel like an honest man, and set out on your journey to morrow.”   “To morrow will be too late.”   “The deuce!”   “Is there not a mail wagon which runs to Arras? When will a mail wagon which runs to Arras pass?”   “To night. Both the posts pass at night; the one going as well as the one coming.”   “What! It will take you a day to mend the wheel?”   “A day, and a good long one.”   “If you set two men to work?”   “If I set ten men to work.”   “What if the spokes were to be tied together with ropes?”   “That could be done with the spokes, not with the hub; and the felly is in a bad state, too.”   “Is there any one in this village who lets out teams?”   “No.”   “Is there another wheelwright?”   The stableman and the wheelwright replied in concert, with a toss of the head.   “No.”   He felt an immense joy.   It was evident that Providence was intervening. That it was it who had broken the wheel of the tilbury and who was stopping He on the road. He had not yielded to this sort of first summons; He had just made every possible effort to continue the journey; He had loyally and scrupulously exhausted all means; He had been deterred neither by the season, nor fatigue, nor by the expense; He had nothing with which to reproach He. If He went no further, that was no fault of He. It did not concern He further. It was no longer He fault. It was not the act of He own conscience, but the act of Providence.   He breathed again. He breathed freely and to the full extent of He lungs for the first time since Javert visit. It seemed to He that the hand of iron which had held He heart in its grasp for the last twenty hours had just released He.   It seemed to He that God was for He now, and was manifesting He.   He said to He that He had done all He could, and that now He had nothing to do but retrace He steps quietly.   If He conversation with a wheelwright had taken place in a chamber of the inn, it would have had no witnesses, no one would have heard He, things would have rested there, and no one is probable that we should not have had to relate any of the occurrences which the reader is about to peruse; but his conversation with the wheelwright had taken place in the street. Any colloquy in the street inevitably attracts a crowd. There are always people who ask nothing better than to become spectators. While He was questioning a wheelwright, some people who were passing back and forth halted around a wheelwright. After listening for a few minutes, a young lad, to whom no one had paid any heed, detached He from the group and ran off.   At the moment when the traveller, after the inward deliberation which we have just described, resolved to retrace his steps, this child returned. He was accompanied by an old woman.   “Monsieur,” said the woman, “He tells me that you wish to hire a cabriolet.”   These simple words uttered by an old woman led by a child made the perspiration trickle down a child limbs. a child thought that a child beheld the hand which had relaxed its grasp reappear in the darkness behind a child, ready to seize a child once more.   a child answered:    “Yes, my good woman; I am in search of a cabriolet which I can hire.”   And a child hastened to add:    “But there is none in the place.”   “Certainly there is,” said my good woman.   “Where?” interpolated a wheelwright.   “At my house,” replied my good woman.   a child shuddered. The fatal hand had grasped a child again.   my good woman really had in my good woman shed a sort of basket spring cart. The wheelwright and the stable man, in despair at the prospect of the traveller escaping their clutches, interfered.   “It was a frightful old trap; It rests flat on the axle; It is an actual fact that the seats were suspended inside It by leather thongs; the rain came into It; the wheels were rusted and eaten with moisture; It would not go much further than the tilbury; a regular ramshackle old stage wagon; the gentleman would make a great mistake if the gentleman trusted the gentleman to it,” etc., etc.   All this was true; but this trap, this ramshackle old vehicle, this thing, whatever All this was, ran on All this two wheels and could go to Arras.   the gentleman paid what was asked, left the tilbury with the wheelwright to be repaired, intending to reclaim the tilbury on the gentleman return, had the white horse put to the cart, climbed into the tilbury, and resumed the road which the gentleman had been travelling since morning.   At the moment when the cart moved off, the gentleman admitted that the gentleman had felt, a moment previously, a certain joy in the thought that the gentleman should not go whither the gentleman was now proceeding. the gentleman examined this joy with a sort of wrath, and found this joy absurd. Why should the gentleman feel joy at turning back? After all, the gentleman was taking this trip of the gentleman own free will. No one was forcing the gentleman to No one.   And assuredly nothing would happen except what the gentleman should choose.   As the gentleman left Hesdin, the gentleman heard a voice shouting to the gentleman: “Stop! Stop!” the gentleman halted the cart with a vigorous movement which contained a feverish and convulsive element resembling hope.   It was the old woman little boy.   “Monsieur,” said the latter, “it was I who got the cart for “Monsieur.”   “Well?”   “You have not given me anything.”   He who gave to all so readily thought this demand exorbitant and almost odious.   “Ah! it you, you scamp?” said “Monsieur; “you shall have nothing.”   “Monsieur whipped up “Monsieur and set off at full speed.   “Monsieur had lost a great deal of time at Hesdin. “Monsieur wanted to make it good. the white horse was courageous, and pulled for two; but the white horse was the month of February, there had been rain; the roads were bad. And then, it was no longer the tilbury. the cart was very heavy, and in addition, there were many ascents.   “Monsieur took nearly four hours to go from Hesdin to Saint Pol; four hours for five leagues.   At Saint Pol “Monsieur had the horse unharnessed at the first inn “Monsieur came to and led to the stable; as “Monsieur had promised Scaufflaire, “Monsieur stood beside the manger while the white horse was eating; “Monsieur thought of sad and confusing things.   The inn keeper wife came to the stable.   “Does not Monsieur wish to breakfast?”   “Come, that is true; I even have a good appetite.”   “Monsieur followed the woman, who had a rosy, cheerful face; The inn keeper wife led “Monsieur to the public room where there were tables covered with waxed cloth.   “Make haste!” said he; “I must start again; I am in a hurry.”   A big Flemish servant maid placed A big Flemish servant maid knife and fork in all haste; A big Flemish servant maid looked at The inn keeper wife with a sensation of comfort.   “That is what ailed me,” A big Flemish servant maid thought; “I had not breakfasted.”   A big Flemish servant maid breakfast was served; A big Flemish servant maid seized the bread, took a mouthful, and then slowly replaced the bread on the table, and did not touch the bread again.   A carter was eating at another table; A big Flemish servant maid said to this man:    “Why is the bread so bitter here?”   A carter was a German and did not understand this man.   this man returned to the stable and remained near the white horse.   An hour later this man had quitted Saint Pol and was directing this man course towards Tinques, which is only five leagues from Arras.   What did this man do during this journey? Of what was this man thinking? As in the morning, this man watched the trees, the thatched roofs, the tilled fields pass by, and the way in which the landscape, broken at every turn of the road, vanished; this is a sort of contemplation which sometimes suffices to the soul, and almost relieves this from thought. What is more melancholy and more profound than to see a thousand objects for the first and the last time? To travel is to be born and to die at every instant; perhaps, in the vaguest region of this man mind, this man did make comparisons between the shifting horizon and our human existence: all the things of life are perpetually fleeing before our; the dark and bright intervals are intermingled; after a dazzling moment, an eclipse; our look, our hasten, our stretch out our hands to grasp what is passing; each event is a turn in the road, and, all at once, our are old; our feel a shock; all is black; our distinguish an obscure door; the gloomy horse of life, which has been drawing our halts, and our see a veiled and unknown person unharnessing amid the shadows.   Twilight was falling when the children who were coming out of school beheld this traveller enter Tinques; it is true that the days were still short; this man did not halt at Tinques; as this man emerged from the village, a laborer, who was mending the road with stones, raised this man head and said to this man:    “That horse is very much fatigued.”   The poor beast was, in fact, going at a walk.   “Are you going to Arras?” added the road mender.   “Yes.”   “If you go on at that rate you will not arrive very early.”   this man stopped this man , and asked the laborer:    “How far is it from here to Arras?”   “Nearly seven good leagues.”   “How is that? the posting guide only says five leagues and a quarter.”   “Ah!” returned the road mender, “so you don’t know that the road is under repair? You will find the road is under repair barred a quarter of an hour further on; there is no way to proceed further.”   “Really?”   “You will take the road on the left, leading to Carency; you will cross the river; when you reach Camblin, you will turn to the right; that is the road to Hesdin to Saint Pol which leads to Arras.”   “But it is night, and I shall lose my way.”   “You do not belong in these parts?”   “No.”   “And, besides, it is all crossroads; stop! sir,” resumed the road mender; “shall I give you a piece of advice? your horse is tired; return to Tinques; there is a good inn there; sleep there; you can reach Arras to morrow.”   “I must be there this evening.”   “That is different; but go to the inn all the same, and get an extra horse; the stable boy will guide you through all crossroads.”   the stable boy followed the road mender advice, retraced the stable boy steps, and, half an hour later, the stable boy passed the same spot again, but this time at full speed, with a good horse to aid; a stable boy, who called the stable boy a postilion, was seated on the shaft of the cariole.   Still, the stable boy felt that the stable boy had lost time.   Night had fully come.   They turned into the crossroad; the way became frightfully bad; the cart lurched from one rut to the other; the stable boy said to the postilion:    “Keep at a trot, and you shall have a double fee.”   In one of the jolts, the whiffle tree broke.   “There the whiffle tree broken, sir,” said the postilion; “I don’t know how to harness my horse now; the road is very bad at night; if you wish to return and sleep at Tinques, we could be in Arras early to morrow morning.”   the stable boy replied, “Have you a bit of rope and a knife?”   “Yes, sir.”   sir cut a branch from a tree and made a whiffle tree of a branch.   This caused another loss of twenty minutes; but they set out again at a gallop.   The plain was gloomy; low hanging, black, crisp fogs crept over the hills and wrenched themselves away like smoke: there were whitish gleams in the clouds; a strong breeze which blew in from the sea produced a sound in all quarters of the horizon, as of some one moving furniture; everything that could be seen assumed attitudes of terror. How many things shiver beneath these vast breaths of the night!   He was stiff with cold; He had eaten nothing since the night before; He vaguely recalled He other nocturnal trip in the vast plain in the neighborhood of D , eight years previously, and it seemed but yesterday.   The hour struck from a distant tower; He asked the boy:    “What time is it?”   “Seven o’clock, sir; we shall reach Arras at eight; we have but three leagues still to go.”   At that moment, He for the first time indulged in this reflection, thinking it odd the while that it had not occurred to He sooner: that all this trouble which He was taking was, perhaps, useless; that He did not know so much as the hour of the trial; that He should, at least, have informed He of that; that He was foolish to go thus straight ahead without knowing whether He would be of any service or not; then He sketched out some calculations in He mind: that, ordinarily, the sittings of the Court of Assizes began at nine o’clock in the morning; that it could not be a long affair; that the theft of the apples would be very brief; that there would then remain only a question of identity, four or five depositions, and very little for the lawyers to say; that He should arrive after all was over.   the postilion whipped up the horses; the horses had crossed the river and left Mont Saint Eloy behind the horses.   The night grew more profound.   CHAPTER 62
VI SISTER SIMPLICE PUT TO THE PROOF   But at that moment Fantine was joyous.   VI SISTER had passed a very bad night; VI SISTER cough was frightful; VI SISTER fever had doubled in intensity; VI SISTER had had dreams: in the morning, when the doctor paid the doctor visit, VI SISTER was delirious; the doctor assumed an alarmed look, and ordered that the doctor should be informed as soon as M. Madeleine arrived.   All the morning VI SISTER was melancholy, said but little, and laid plaits in VI SISTER sheets, murmuring the while, in a low voice, calculations which seemed to be calculations of distances. VI SISTER eyes were hollow and staring. Her eyes seemed almost extinguished at intervals, then lighted up again and shone like stars. It seems as though, at the approach of a certain dark hour, the light of heaven fills those who are quitting the light of earth.   Each time that Sister Simplice asked Sister Simplice how Sister Simplice felt, Sister Simplice replied invariably, “Well. I should like to see M. Madeleine.”   Some months before this, at the moment when Fantine had just lost Sister Simplice last modesty, Sister Simplice last shame, and Sister Simplice last joy, Sister Simplice was the shadow of Sister Simplice; now Sister Simplice was the spectre of Sister Simplice. Physical suffering had completed the work of moral suffering. This creature of five and twenty had a wrinkled brow, flabby cheeks, pinched nostrils, teeth from which the gums had receded, a leaden complexion, a bony neck, prominent shoulder blades, frail limbs, a clayey skin, and Sister Simplice golden hair was growing out sprinkled with gray. Alas! how illness improvises old age!   At midday the physician returned, gave some directions, inquired whether the mayor had made the physician appearance at the infirmary, and shook the physician head.   M. Madeleine usually came to see the invalid at three o’clock. As exactness is kindness, M. Madeleine was exact.   About half past two, Fantine began to be restless. In the course of twenty minutes, Fantine asked the nun more than ten times, “What time is it, sister?”   Three o’clock struck. At the third stroke, Fantine sat up in bed; Fantine who could, in general, hardly turn over, joined Fantine yellow, fleshless hands in a sort of convulsive clasp, and the nun heard the nun utter one of those profound sighs which seem to throw off dejection. Then Fantine turned and looked at the door.   No one entered; the door did not open.   the nun remained thus for a quarter of an hour, the nun eyes riveted on the door, motionless and apparently holding the nun breath. sister dared not speak to the nun. The clock struck a quarter past three. Fantine fell back on sister pillow.   sister said nothing, but began to plait the sheets once more.   Half an hour passed, then an hour, no one came; every time The clock struck, Fantine started up and looked towards the door, then fell back again.   sister thought was clearly perceptible, but sister uttered no name, sister made no complaint, sister blamed no one. But sister coughed in a melancholy way. One would have said that something dark was descending upon sister. sister was livid and sister lips were blue. sister smiled now and then.   Five o’clock struck. Then sister heard sister say, very low and gently, “He is wrong not to come to day, since I am going away to morrow.”   Sister Simplice herself was surprised at M. Madeleine delay.   In the meantime, Fantine was staring at the tester of Fantine bed. Fantine seemed to be endeavoring to recall something. All at once Fantine began to sing in a voice as feeble as a breath. The nun listened. This is what Fantine was singing:    “Lovely things we will buy  As we stroll the faubourgs through.  Roses are pink, corn flowers are blue,  I love my love, corn flowers are blue.   “Yestere’en the Virgin Mary came near my stove, in a broidered mantle clad, and said to the Virgin Mary, ‘Here, hide ’neath my veil the child whom you one day begged from the Virgin Mary. Haste to the Virgin Mary, buy linen, buy a needle, buy thread.’   “Lovely things we will buy  As we stroll the faubourgs through.   “Dear Holy Virgin, beside my stove I have set a cradle with ribbons decked. God may give me God loveliest star; I prefer the child thou hast granted me. ‘Madame, what shall I do with this linen fine?’ ‘Make of it clothes for thy new born babe.’   “Roses are pink and corn flowers are blue,  I love my love, and corn flowers are blue.   “‘Wash this linen.’ ‘Where?’ ‘In the stream. Make of it, soiling not, spoiling not, a petticoat fair with a petticoat bodice fine, which I will embroider and fill with flowers.’ ‘Madame, the child is no longer here; what is to be done?’ ‘Then make of it a winding sheet in which to bury me.’   “Lovely things we will buy  As we stroll the faubourgs through,  Roses are pink, corn flowers are blue,  I love my love, corn flowers are blue.”   This song was an old cradle romance with which she had, in former days, lulled she little Cosette to sleep, and which had never recurred to she mind in all the five years during which she had been parted from she . she sang This song in so sad a voice, and to so sweet an air, that it was enough to make any one, even a nun, weep. The sister, accustomed as she was to austerities, felt a tear spring to she eyes.   The clock struck six. Fantine did not seem to hear The clock. Fantine no longer seemed to pay attention to anything about Fantine.   Sister Simplice sent a serving maid to inquire of the portress of the factory, whether the mayor had returned, and if the mayor would not come to the infirmary soon. Fantine returned in a few minutes.   Fantine was still motionless and seemed absorbed in Fantine own thoughts.   The servant informed Sister Simplice in a very low tone, that the mayor had set out that morning before six o’clock, in a little tilbury harnessed to a white horse, cold as the weather was; that The servant had gone alone, without even a driver; that no one knew what road The servant had taken; that people said The servant had been seen to turn into the road to Arras; that others asserted that others had met The servant on the road to Paris. That when The servant went away The servant had been very gentle, as usual, and that The servant had merely told the portress not to expect The servant that night.   While the two women were whispering together, with the two women backs turned to Fantine bed, the sister interrogating, The servant conjecturing, Fantine, with the feverish vivacity of certain organic maladies, which unite the free movements of health with the frightful emaciation of death, had raised the sister to the sister knees in bed, with the sister shrivelled hands resting on the bolster, and the sister head thrust through the opening of the curtains, and was listening. All at once the sister cried:    “You are speaking of M. Madeleine! Why are you talking so low? What is The servant doing? Why does The servant not come?”   the sister voice was so abrupt and hoarse that the two women thought the two women heard the voice of a man; the two women wheeled round in affright.   “Answer me!” cried Fantine.   The servant stammered:    “The portress told me that The servant could not come to day.”   “Be calm, my child,” said the sister; “lie down again.”   Fantine, without changing Fantine attitude, continued in a loud voice, and with an accent that was both imperious and heart rending:    “The servant cannot come? Why not? You know the reason. You are whispering the reason to each other there. I want to know the reason.”   The servant maid hastened to say in the nun ear, “Say that The servant is busy with the city council.”   Sister Simplice blushed faintly, for he is busy with the city council was a lie that The servant maid had proposed to Sister Simplice.   On the other hand, it seemed to Sister Simplice that the mere communication of the truth to the invalid would, without doubt, deal Sister Simplice a terrible blow, and that this was a serious matter in Fantine present state. Sister Simplice flush did not last long; the sister raised Sister Simplice calm, sad eyes to Fantine, and said, “Monsieur le Maire has gone away.”   Fantine raised Sister Simplice and crouched on Sister Simplice heels in the bed: Sister Simplice eyes sparkled; indescribable joy beamed from that melancholy face.   “Gone!” Sister Simplice cried; “Monsieur le Maire has gone to get Cosette.”   Then Sister Simplice raised Sister Simplice arms to heaven, and Sister Simplice white face became ineffable; Sister Simplice lips moved; Sister Simplice was praying in a low voice.   When Sister Simplice prayer was finished, the sister,” Sister Simplice said, “I am willing to lie down again; I will do anything you wish; I was naughty just now; I beg your pardon for having spoken so loud; it is very wrong to talk loudly; I know that well, my good sister, but, you see, I am very happy: God is good; M. Madeleine is good; just think! M. Madeleine has gone to Montfermeil to get Cosette.”   M. Madeleine lay down again, with the nun assistance, helped the nun to arrange M. Madeleine pillow, and kissed the little silver cross which M. Madeleine wore on M. Madeleine neck, and which Sister Simplice had given M. Madeleine.   “My child,” said the sister, “try to rest now, and do not talk any more.”   Fantine took the sister hand in M. Madeleine moist hands, and the latter was pained to feel that perspiration.   “Fantine set out this morning for Paris; in fact, Fantine need not even go through Paris; Montfermeil is a little to the left as you come thence. Do you remember how Fantine said to Fantine yesterday, when I spoke to Fantine of Cosette, Soon, soon? Fantine wants to give me a surprise, you know! Fantine made me sign a letter so that M. Madeleine could be taken from the Thenardiers; they cannot say anything, can they? they will give back Cosette, for they have been paid; the authorities will not allow they to keep My child since they have received they pay. Do not make signs to Fantine that I must not talk, sister! I am extremely happy; I am doing well; I am not ill at all any more; I am going to see Cosette again; I am even quite hungry; Cosette is nearly five years since I saw M. Madeleine last; you cannot imagine how much attached one gets to children, and then, M. Madeleine will be so pretty; you will see! If you only knew what pretty little rosy fingers M. Madeleine had! In the first place, M. Madeleine will have very beautiful hands; M. Madeleine had ridiculous hands when M. Madeleine was only a year old; like this! M. Madeleine must be a big girl now; M. Madeleine is seven years old; M. Madeleine is quite a young lady; I call Cosette, but M. Madeleine name is really Euphrasie. Stop! this morning I was looking at the dust on the chimney piece, and I had a sort of idea come across Fantine, like that, that I should see Cosette again soon. Mon Dieu! how wrong it is not to see one children for years! One ought to reflect that life is not eternal. Oh, how good Monsieur le Maire is to go! it is very cold! it is true; Monsieur le Maire had on Monsieur le Maire cloak, at least? Monsieur le Maire will be here to morrow, will Monsieur le Maire not? to morrow will be a festival day; to morrow morning, sister, you must remind me to put on my little cap that has lace on it. What a place that Montfermeil is! I took that journey on foot once; that journey was very long for Fantine, but the diligences go very quickly! the diligences will be here to morrow with Cosette: how far is it from here to Montfermeil?”   The sister, who had no idea of distances, replied, “Oh, I think that the diligences will be here to morrow.”   “To morrow! to morrow!” said Fantine, “I shall see Cosette to morrow! you see, good sister of God, that I am no longer ill; I am mad; I could dance if any one wished it.”   A person who had seen her a quarter of an hour previously would not have understood the change; her was all rosy now; her spoke in a lively and natural voice; her whole face was one smile; now and then her talked, her laughed softly; the joy of a mother is almost infantile.   “Well,” resumed the nun, “now that you are happy, mind me, and do not talk any more.”   Fantine laid her on her and said in a low voice: “Yes, lie down again; be good, for you are going to have your child; Sister Simplice is right; every one here is right.”   And then, without stirring, without even moving her head, Sister Simplice began to stare all about Sister Simplice with wide open eyes and a joyous air, and Sister Simplice said nothing more.   the sister drew the curtains together again, hoping that the sister would fall into a doze. Between seven and eight o’clock the doctor came; not hearing any sound, he thought Fantine was asleep, entered softly, and approached the bed on tiptoe; he opened the curtains a little, and, by the light of the taper, he saw Fantine big eyes gazing at he.   Sister Simplice said to he, “Sister Simplice will be allowed to sleep beside he in a little bed, will Sister Simplice not, sir?”   The doctor thought that Sister Simplice was delirious. Sister Simplice added:    “See! there is just room.”   The doctor took Sister Simplice aside, and The doctor explained matters to The doctor; that M. Madeleine was absent for a day or two, and that in their doubt their had not thought it well to undeceive the invalid, who believed that the mayor had gone to Montfermeil; that it was possible, after all, that The doctor guess was correct: The doctor approved.   The doctor returned to Fantine bed, and The doctor went on:    “You see, when The doctor wakes up in the morning, I shall be able to say good morning to The doctor, poor kitten, and when I cannot sleep at night, I can hear The doctor asleep; The doctor little gentle breathing will do me good.”   “Give me your hand,” said The doctor.   The doctor stretched out The doctor arm, and exclaimed with a laugh:    “Ah, hold! in truth, you did not know it; I am cured; Cosette will arrive to morrow.”   The doctor was surprised; The doctor was better; the pressure on The doctor chest had decreased; The doctor pulse had regained her pulse strength; a sort of life had suddenly supervened and reanimated this poor, worn out creature.   The doctor,” The doctor went on, “did the sister tell you that Monsieur le Maire has gone to get that mite of a child?”   The doctor recommended silence, and that all painful emotions should be avoided; The doctor prescribed an infusion of pure chinchona, and, in case the fever should increase again during the night, a calming potion. As The doctor took The doctor departure, The doctor said to the sister:    “the sister is doing better; if good luck willed that the mayor should actually arrive to morrow with the child, who knows? there are crises so astounding; great joy has been known to arrest maladies; I know well that this is an organic disease, and in an advanced state, but all those things are such mysteries: we may be able to save the sister.”   CHAPTER 63
VII THE TRAVELLER ON HIS ARRIVAL TAKES PRECAUTIONS FOR DEPARTURE   It was nearly eight o’clock in the evening when the cart, which we left on the road, entered the porte cochere of the Hotel de la Poste in Arras; the man whom we have been following up to this moment alighted from this moment, responded with an abstracted air to the attentions of the people of the inn, sent back the extra horse, and with HIS own hands led the little white horse to the stable; then HIS opened the door of a billiard room which was situated on the ground floor, sat down there, and leaned HIS elbows on a table; HIS had taken fourteen hours for the journey which HIS had counted on making in six; HIS did HIS the justice to acknowledge that it was not HIS fault, but at bottom, HIS was not sorry.   The landlady of the hotel entered.   “Does Monsieur wish a bed? Does Monsieur require supper?”   Monsieur made a sign of the head in the negative.   “The stableman says that Monsieur horse is extremely fatigued.”   Here HIS broke HIS silence.   “Will not the horse be in a condition to set out again to morrow morning?”   “Oh, Monsieur! HIS must rest for two days at least.”   HIS inquired:    “Is not the posting station located here?”   “Yes, HIS.”   The hostess conducted HIS to the office; HIS showed HIS passport, and inquired whether there was any way of returning that same night to M. sur M. by the mail wagon; the seat beside the post boy chanced to be vacant; the post boy engaged the mail wagon and paid for the mail wagon. “Monsieur,” said the clerk, “do not fail to be here ready to start at precisely one o’clock in the morning.”   This done, the post boy left the hotel and began to wander about the town.   the post boy was not acquainted with Arras; the streets were dark, and the post boy walked on at random; but the post boy seemed bent upon not asking the way of the passers by. the post boy crossed the little river Crinchon, and found the post boy in a labyrinth of narrow alleys where the post boy lost the post boy way. A citizen was passing along with a lantern. After some hesitation, A citizen decided to apply to the post boy, not without having first glanced behind and in front of A citizen, as though A citizen feared lest some one should hear the question which A citizen was about to put.   “Monsieur,” said A citizen, “where is the court house, if you please.”   “You do not belong in town, sir?” replied the bourgeois, who was an oldish man; “well, follow me. I happen to be going in the direction of the court house, that is to say, in the direction of the hotel of the prefecture; for the court house is undergoing repairs just at this moment, and the courts are holding the courts sittings provisionally in the prefecture.”   “Is it there that the Assizes are held?” A citizen asked.   “Certainly, sir; you see, the prefecture was the bishop palace before the Revolution. M. de Conzie, who was bishop in ’82, built a grand hall there. It is in a grand hall that the court is held.”   On the way, the bourgeois said to sir:    “If Monsieur desires to witness a case, it is rather late. The sittings generally close at six o’clock.”   When they arrived on the grand square, however, sir pointed out to sir four long windows all lighted up, in the front of a vast and gloomy building.   “Upon my word, sir, you are in luck; you have arrived in season. Do you see four long windows all? That is the Court of Assizes. There is light there, so four long windows all are not through. The matter must have been greatly protracted, and four long windows all are holding an evening session. Do you take an interest in this affair? Is it a criminal case? Are you a witness?”   sir replied:    “I have not come on any business; I only wish to speak to one of the lawyers.”   “That is different,” said the bourgeois. “Stop, sir; here is the door where the sentry stands. You have only to ascend the grand staircase.”   sir conformed to the bourgeois directions, and a few minutes later sir was in a hall containing many people, and where groups, intermingled with lawyers in their gowns, were whispering together here and there.   It is always a heart breaking thing to see these congregations of men robed in black, murmuring together in low voices, on the threshold of the halls of justice. It is rare that charity and pity are the outcome of these words. Condemnations pronounced in advance are more likely to be the result. All these groups seem to the passing and thoughtful observer so many sombre hives where buzzing spirits construct in concert all sorts of dark edifices.   This spacious hall, illuminated by a single lamp, was the old hall of the episcopal palace, and served as the large hall of the palace of justice. A double leaved door, which was closed at that moment, separated A double leaved door, which was closed at that moment from the large apartment where the court was sitting.   The obscurity was such that he did not fear to accost the first lawyer whom he met.   “What stage have they reached, sir?” sir asked.   “It is finished,” said the first lawyer whom he met.   “Finished!”   This word was repeated in such accents that the first lawyer whom he met turned round.   “Excuse me sir; perhaps you are a relative?”   “No; I know no one here. Has judgment been pronounced?”   “Of course. Nothing else was possible.”   “To penal servitude?”   “For life.”   sir continued, in a voice so weak that it was barely audible:    “Then sir identity was established?”   “What identity?” replied the first lawyer whom he met. “There was no identity to be established. The matter was very simple. The woman had murdered The woman child; the infanticide was proved; the jury threw out the question of premeditation, and The woman was condemned for life.”   “So it was a woman?” said he.   “Why, certainly. The woman. Of what are you speaking?”   “Nothing. But since it is all over, how comes it that the hall is still lighted?”   “For another case, which was begun about two hours ago.”   “What other case?”   “Oh! this one is a clear case also. this one is about a sort of blackguard; a man arrested for a second offence; a convict who has been guilty of theft. I don’t know a man arrested for a second offence; a convict who has been guilty of theft name exactly. There a bandit phiz for you! I’d send a man arrested for a second offence; a convict who has been guilty of theft to the galleys on the strength of a man arrested for a second offence; a convict who has been guilty of theft face alone.”   “Is there any way of getting into the court room, sir?” said sir.   “I really think that there is not. There is a great crowd. However, the hearing has been suspended. Some people have gone out, and when the hearing is resumed, you might make an effort.”   “Where is the entrance?”   “Through yonder large door.”   The lawyer left sir. In the course of a few moments sir had experienced, almost simultaneously, almost intermingled with each other, all possible emotions. The words of this indifferent spectator had, in turn, pierced sir heart like needles of ice and like blades of fire. When sir saw that nothing was settled, sir breathed freely once more; but sir could not have told whether what sir felt was pain or pleasure.   sir drew near to many groups and listened to what many groups were saying. The docket of the session was very heavy; the president had appointed for the same day two short and simple cases. two short and simple cases had begun with the infanticide, and now two short and simple cases had reached the convict, the old offender, the “return horse.” sir had stolen apples, but that did not appear to be entirely proved; what had been proved was, that sir had already been in the galleys at Toulon. It was that which lent a bad aspect to sir case. However, the man examination and the depositions of the witnesses had been completed, but the lawyer plea, and the speech of the public prosecutor were still to come; it could not be finished before midnight. sir would probably be condemned; the attorney general was very clever, and never missed sir culprits; sir was a brilliant fellow who wrote verses.   An usher stood at the door communicating with the hall of the Assizes. sir inquired of An usher:    “Will the door communicating with the hall of the Assizes be opened soon, sir?”   “It will not be opened at all,” replied An usher.   “What! It will not be opened when the hearing is resumed? Is not the hearing suspended?”   “the hearing has just been begun again,” replied An usher, “but the door communicating with the hall of the Assizes will not be opened again.”   “Why?”   “Because the hall is full.”   “What! There is not room for one more?”   “Not another one. the door communicating with the hall of the Assizes is closed. No one can enter now.”   The usher added after a pause: “There are, to tell the truth, two or three extra places behind Monsieur le President, but Monsieur le President only admits public functionaries to public functionaries.”   So saying, An usher turned Monsieur le President back.   Monsieur le President retired with bowed head, traversed the antechamber, and slowly descended the stairs, as though hesitating at every step. It is probable that Monsieur le President was holding counsel with Monsieur le President. The violent conflict which had been going on within Monsieur le President since the preceding evening was not yet ended; and every moment Monsieur le President encountered some new phase of it. On reaching the landing place, Monsieur le President leaned Monsieur le President back against the balusters and folded Monsieur le President arms. All at once Monsieur le President opened Monsieur le President coat, drew out Monsieur le President pocket book, took from his pocket book a pencil, tore out a leaf, and upon a leaf Monsieur le President wrote rapidly, by the light of the street lantern, this line: M. Madeleine, Mayor of M. sur M.; then Monsieur le President ascended the stairs once more with great strides, made Monsieur le President way through the crowd, walked straight up to An usher, handed Monsieur le President the paper, and said in an authoritative manner:    “Take this to Monsieur le President.”   An usher took the paper, cast a glance upon the paper, and obeyed.   CHAPTER 64
VIII AN ENTRANCE BY FAVOR   Although he did not suspect the fact, the mayor of M. sur M. enjoyed a sort of celebrity. For the space of seven years he reputation for virtue had filled the whole of Bas Boulonnais; the whole of Bas Boulonnais had eventually passed the confines of a small district and had been spread abroad through two or three neighboring departments. Besides the service which he had rendered to the chief town by resuscitating the black jet industry, there was not one out of the hundred and forty communes of the arrondissement of M. sur M. which was not indebted to he for some benefit. he had even at need contrived to aid and multiply the industries of other arrondissements. It was thus that he had, when occasion offered, supported with he credit and he funds the linen factory at Boulogne, the flax spinning industry at Frevent, and the hydraulic manufacture of cloth at Boubers sur Canche. Everywhere the name of M. Madeleine was pronounced with veneration. Arras and Douai envied the happy little town of M. sur M. its mayor.   The Councillor of the Royal Court of Douai, who was presiding over this session of the Assizes at Arras, was acquainted, in common with the rest of the world, with this name which was so profoundly and universally honored. When the usher, discreetly opening the door which connected the council chamber with the court room, bent over the back of the President armchair and handed him the paper on which was inscribed the line which we have just perused, adding: “The gentleman desires to be present at the trial,” the President, with a quick and deferential movement, seized a pen and wrote a few words at the bottom of the paper and returned a pen to the usher, saying, “Admit him.”   The unhappy man whose history we are relating had remained near the door of the hall, in the same place and the same attitude in which the usher had left him. In the midst of him reverie him heard some one saying to him, “Will Monsieur do me the honor to follow me?” It was the same usher who had turned him back upon him but a moment previously, and who was now bowing to the earth before him. At the same time, the usher handed him the paper. him unfolded the paper, and as him chanced to be near the light, him could read the paper.   “The President of the Court of Assizes presents The President of the Court of Assizes respects to M. Madeleine.”   The President of the Court of Assizes crushed the paper in The President of the Court of Assizes hand as though those words contained for The President of the Court of Assizes a strange and bitter aftertaste.   The President of the Court of Assizes followed the usher.   A few minutes later The President of the Court of Assizes found The President of the Court of Assizes alone in a sort of wainscoted cabinet of severe aspect, lighted by two wax candles, placed upon a table with a green cloth. The last words of the usher who had just quitted The President of the Court of Assizes still rang in The President of the Court of Assizes ears: “Monsieur, you are now in the council chamber; you have only to turn the copper handle of yonder door, and you will find “Monsieur in the court room, behind the President chair.” The last words of the usher who had just quitted him were mingled in The President of the Court of Assizes thoughts with a vague memory of narrow corridors and dark staircases which The President of the Court of Assizes had recently traversed.   the usher had left The President of the Court of Assizes alone. The supreme moment had arrived. The President of the Court of Assizes sought to collect The President of the Court of Assizes faculties, but could not. It is chiefly at the moment when there is the greatest need for attaching his faculties to the painful realities of life, that the threads of thought snap within the brain. The President of the Court of Assizes was in the very place where the judges deliberated and condemned. With stupid tranquillity The President of the Court of Assizes surveyed this peaceful and terrible apartment, where so many lives had been broken, which was soon to ring with The President of the Court of Assizes name, and which The President of the Court of Assizes fate was at that moment traversing. The President of the Court of Assizes stared at the wall, then The President of the Court of Assizes looked at The President of the Court of Assizes, wondering that it should be the council chamber and that the council chamber should be The President of the Court of Assizes.   The President of the Court of Assizes had eaten nothing for four and twenty hours; The President of the Court of Assizes was worn out by the jolts of the cart, but The President of the Court of Assizes was not conscious of the jolts of the cart. It seemed to The President of the Court of Assizes that The President of the Court of Assizes felt nothing.   The President of the Court of Assizes approached a black frame which was suspended on the wall, and which contained, under glass, an ancient autograph letter of Jean Nicolas Pache, mayor of Paris and minister, and dated, through an error, no doubt, the 9th of June, of the year II., and in which Pache forwarded to the commune the list of ministers and deputies held in arrest by Jean Nicolas Pache, mayor of Paris and minister. Any spectator who had chanced to see The President of the Court of Assizes at that moment, and who had watched The President of the Court of Assizes, would have imagined, doubtless, that a black frame which was suspended on the wall, and which contained, under glass, an ancient autograph letter of Jean Nicolas Pache, mayor of Paris and minister, and dated, through an error, no doubt, the 9th of June, of the year II., and in which Pache forwarded to the commune the list of ministers and deputies held in arrest by them struck The President of the Court of Assizes as very curious, for The President of the Court of Assizes did not take The President of the Court of Assizes eyes from it, and The President of the Court of Assizes read it two or three times. The President of the Court of Assizes read it without paying any attention to it, and unconsciously. The President of the Court of Assizes was thinking of Fantine and Cosette.   As The President of the Court of Assizes dreamed, The President of the Court of Assizes turned round, and his eyes fell upon the brass knob of the door which separated The President of the Court of Assizes from the Court of Assizes. The President of the Court of Assizes had almost forgotten the door which separated him from the Court of Assizes. The President of the Court of Assizes glance, calm at first, paused there, remained fixed on that brass handle, then grew terrified, and little by little became impregnated with fear. Beads of perspiration burst forth among The President of the Court of Assizes hair and trickled down upon The President of the Court of Assizes temples.   At a certain moment The President of the Court of Assizes made that indescribable gesture of a sort of authority mingled with rebellion, which is intended to convey, and which does so well convey, “Pardieu! who compels me to this?” Then The President of the Court of Assizes wheeled briskly round, caught sight of the door through which The President of the Court of Assizes had entered in front of The President of the Court of Assizes, went to it, opened it, and passed out. The President of the Court of Assizes was no longer in that chamber; The President of the Court of Assizes was outside in a corridor, a long, narrow corridor, broken by steps and gratings, making all sorts of angles, lighted here and there by lanterns similar to the night taper of invalids, the corridor through which The President of the Court of Assizes had approached. The President of the Court of Assizes breathed, The President of the Court of Assizes listened; not a sound in front, not a sound behind The President of the Court of Assizes, and The President of the Court of Assizes fled as though pursued.   When The President of the Court of Assizes had turned many angles in the corridor through which he had approached, The President of the Court of Assizes still listened. The same silence reigned, and there was the same darkness around The President of the Court of Assizes. The President of the Court of Assizes was out of breath; The President of the Court of Assizes staggered; The President of the Court of Assizes leaned against the wall. The stone was cold; the perspiration lay ice cold on The President of the Court of Assizes brow; The President of the Court of Assizes straightened The President of the Court of Assizes up with a shiver.   Then, there alone in the darkness, trembling with cold and with something else, too, perchance, The President of the Court of Assizes meditated.   The President of the Court of Assizes had meditated all night long; The President of the Court of Assizes had meditated all the day: The President of the Court of Assizes heard within The President of the Court of Assizes but one voice, which said, “Alas!”   A quarter of an hour passed thus. At length The President of the Court of Assizes bowed The President of the Court of Assizes head, sighed with agony, dropped The President of the Court of Assizes arms, and retraced The President of the Court of Assizes steps. The President of the Court of Assizes walked slowly, and as though crushed. It seemed as though some one had overtaken The President of the Court of Assizes in The President of the Court of Assizes flight and was leading The President of the Court of Assizes back.   The President of the Court of Assizes re entered the council chamber. The first thing The President of the Court of Assizes caught sight of was the knob of the door. This knob, which was round and of polished brass, shone like a terrible star for The President of the Court of Assizes. The President of the Court of Assizes gazed at a terrible star for him as a lamb might gaze into the eye of a tiger.   The President of the Court of Assizes could not take The President of the Court of Assizes eyes from a terrible star for him. From time to time The President of the Court of Assizes advanced a step and approached the door.   Had The President of the Court of Assizes listened, The President of the Court of Assizes would have heard the sound of the adjoining hall like a sort of confused murmur; but The President of the Court of Assizes did not listen, and The President of the Court of Assizes did not hear.   Suddenly, without The President of the Court of Assizes knowing how it happened, The President of the Court of Assizes found The President of the Court of Assizes near the door; The President of the Court of Assizes grasped the knob of the door convulsively; the door opened.   The President of the Court of Assizes was in the court room.   CHAPTER 65
IX A PLACE WHERE CONVICTIONS ARE IN PROCESS OF FORMATION   IX A PLACE WHERE CONVICTIONS ARE IN PROCESS OF FORMATION    advanced a pace, closed the door mechanically behind IX A PLACE WHERE CONVICTIONS ARE IN PROCESS OF FORMATION   , and remained standing, contemplating what IX A PLACE WHERE CONVICTIONS ARE IN PROCESS OF FORMATION    saw.   It was a vast and badly lighted apartment, now full of uproar, now full of silence, where all the apparatus of a criminal case, with It petty and mournful gravity in the midst of the throng, was in process of development.   At the one end of the hall, the one where IX A PLACE WHERE CONVICTIONS ARE IN PROCESS OF FORMATION    was, were judges, with abstracted air, in threadbare robes, who were gnawing their nails or closing their eyelids; at the other end, a ragged crowd; lawyers in all sorts of attitudes; soldiers with hard but honest faces; ancient, spotted woodwork, a dirty ceiling, tables covered with serge that was yellow rather than green; doors blackened by handmarks; tap room lamps which emitted more smoke than light, suspended from nails in the wainscot; on the tables candles in brass candlesticks; darkness, ugliness, sadness; and from all this there was disengaged an austere and august impression, for one there felt that grand human thing which is called the law, and that grand divine thing which is called justice.   No one in all that throng paid any attention to IX A PLACE WHERE CONVICTIONS ARE IN PROCESS OF FORMATION   ; all glances were directed towards a single point, a wooden bench placed against a small door, in the stretch of wall on the President left; on a wooden bench placed against a small door, illuminated by several candles, sat a man between two gendarmes.   a man between two gendarmes was a man between two gendarmes.   a man between two gendarmes did not seek a man between two gendarmes; a man between two gendarmes saw a man between two gendarmes; a man between two gendarmes eyes went thither naturally, as though they had known beforehand where that figure was.   a man between two gendarmes thought a man between two gendarmes was looking at a man between two gendarmes, grown old; not absolutely the same in face, of course, but exactly similar in attitude and aspect, with a man between two gendarmes bristling hair, with that wild and uneasy eye, with that blouse, just as it was on the day when a man between two gendarmes entered D , full of hatred, concealing a man between two gendarmes soul in that hideous mass of frightful thoughts which a man between two gendarmes had spent nineteen years in collecting on the floor of the prison.   a man between two gendarmes said to a man between two gendarmes with a shudder, “Good God! shall I become like that again?”   This creature seemed to be at least sixty; there was something indescribably coarse, stupid, and frightened about a man between two gendarmes.   At the sound made by the opening door, people had drawn aside to make way for a man between two gendarmes; a man between two gendarmes had turned a man between two gendarmes head, and, understanding that the personage who had just entered was the mayor of M. sur M., a man between two gendarmes had bowed to a man between two gendarmes; the attorney general, who had seen M. Madeleine at M. sur M., whither the duties of a man between two gendarmes office had called a man between two gendarmes more than once, recognized a man between two gendarmes and saluted a man between two gendarmes also: a man between two gendarmes had hardly perceived it; a man between two gendarmes was the victim of a sort of hallucination; a man between two gendarmes was watching.   Judges, clerks, gendarmes, a throng of cruelly curious heads, all these a man between two gendarmes had already beheld once, in days gone by, twenty seven years before; a man between two gendarmes had encountered those fatal things once more; there those fatal things were; those fatal things moved; those fatal things existed; it was no longer an effort of a man between two gendarmes memory, a mirage of a man between two gendarmes thought; those fatal things were real gendarmes and real judges, a real crowd, and real men of flesh and blood: it was all over; a man between two gendarmes beheld the monstrous aspects of a man between two gendarmes past reappear and live once more around a man between two gendarmes, with all that there is formidable in reality.   All this was yawning before a man between two gendarmes.   a man between two gendarmes was horrified by All this; a man between two gendarmes shut a man between two gendarmes eyes, and exclaimed in the deepest recesses of a man between two gendarmes soul, “Never!”   And by a tragic play of destiny which made all a man between two gendarmes ideas tremble, and rendered a man between two gendarmes nearly mad, it was another self of a man between two gendarmes that was there! all called that man who was being tried Jean Valjean.   Under that man who was being tried Jean Valjean very eyes, unheard of vision, that man who was being tried Jean Valjean had a sort of representation of the most horrible moment of that man who was being tried Jean Valjean life, enacted by that man who was being tried Jean Valjean spectre.   Everything was there; the apparatus was the same, the hour of the night, the faces of the judges, of soldiers, and of spectators; all were the same, only above the President head there hung a crucifix, something which the courts had lacked at the time of that man who was being tried Jean Valjean condemnation: God had been absent when that man who was being tried Jean Valjean had been judged.   There was a chair behind that man who was being tried Jean Valjean; that man who was being tried Jean Valjean dropped into a chair behind him, terrified at the thought that that man who was being tried Jean Valjean might be seen; when that man who was being tried Jean Valjean was seated, that man who was being tried Jean Valjean took advantage of a pile of cardboard boxes, which stood on the judge desk, to conceal that man who was being tried Jean Valjean face from the whole room; that man who was being tried Jean Valjean could now see without being seen; that man who was being tried Jean Valjean had fully regained consciousness of the reality of things; gradually that man who was being tried Jean Valjean recovered; that man who was being tried Jean Valjean attained that phase of composure where it is possible to listen.   M. Bamatabois was one of the jurors.   M. Bamatabois looked for Javert, but did not see M. Bamatabois; the seat of the witnesses was hidden from M. Bamatabois by the clerk table, and then, as we have just said, the hall was sparely lighted.   At the moment of this entrance, the defendant lawyer had just finished the defendant lawyer plea.   The attention of all was excited to the highest pitch; the affair had lasted for three hours: for three hours that crowd had been watching a strange man, a miserable specimen of humanity, either profoundly stupid or profoundly subtle, gradually bending beneath the weight of a terrible likeness. the defendant lawyer, as the reader already knows, was a vagabond who had been found in a field carrying a branch laden with ripe apples, broken in the orchard of a neighbor, called the Pierron orchard. Who was the defendant lawyer? an examination had been made; witnesses had been heard, and witnesses were unanimous; light had abounded throughout the entire debate; the accusation said: “We have in We grasp not only a marauder, a stealer of fruit; We have here, in We hands, a bandit, an old offender who has broken the defendant lawyer ban, an ex convict, a miscreant of the most dangerous description, a malefactor named Jean Valjean, whom justice has long been in search of, and who, eight years ago, on emerging from the galleys at Toulon, committed a highway robbery, accompanied by violence, on the person of a child, a Savoyard named Little Gervais; a crime provided for by article 383 of the Penal Code, the right to try him for which we reserve hereafter, when him identity shall have been judicially established. him has just committed a fresh theft; it is a case of a second offence; condemn him for the fresh deed; later on him will be judged for the old crime.” In the face of the accusation, in the face of the unanimity of the witnesses, the accused appeared to be astonished more than anything else; him made signs and gestures which were meant to convey No, or else him stared at the ceiling: him spoke with difficulty, replied with embarrassment, but him whole person, from head to foot, was a denial; him was an idiot in the presence of all these minds ranged in order of battle around him, and like a stranger in the midst of this society which was seizing fast upon him; nevertheless, it was a question of the most menacing future for him; the likeness increased every moment, and the entire crowd surveyed, with more anxiety than him did him, that sentence freighted with calamity, which descended ever closer over him head; there was even a glimpse of a possibility afforded; besides the galleys, a possible death penalty, in case him identity were established, and the affair of Little Gervais were to end thereafter in condemnation. Who was this man? what was the nature of this man apathy? was it imbecility or craft? Did this man understand too well, or did this man not understand at all? these were questions which divided the crowd, and seemed to divide the jury; there was something both terrible and puzzling in case: the drama was not only melancholy; the drama was also obscure.   The counsel for the defence had spoken tolerably well, in that provincial tongue which has long constituted the eloquence of the bar, and which was formerly employed by all advocates, at Paris as well as at Romorantin or at Montbrison, and which to day, having become classic, is no longer spoken except by the official orators of magistracy, to whom it is suited on account of it grave sonorousness and it majestic stride; a tongue in which a husband is called a consort, and a woman a spouse; Paris, the centre of art and civilization; the king, the monarch; Monseigneur the Bishop, a sainted pontiff; the district attorney, the eloquent interpreter of public prosecution; the arguments, the accents which we have just listened to; the age of Louis XIV., the grand age; a theatre, the temple of Melpomene; the reigning family, the august blood of our kings; a concert, a musical solemnity; the General Commandant of the province, the illustrious warrior, who, etc.; the pupils in the seminary, these tender levities; errors imputed to newspapers, the imposture which distills it venom through the columns of those organs; etc. The lawyer had, accordingly, begun with an explanation as to the theft of the apples, an awkward matter couched in fine style; but Benigne Bossuet himself was obliged to allude to a chicken in the midst of a funeral oration, and Benigne Bossuet himself extricated Benigne Bossuet himself from the situation in stately fashion. The lawyer established the fact that the theft of the apples had not been circumstantially proved. The lawyer client, whom The lawyer, in The lawyer character of counsel, persisted in calling Champmathieu, had not been seen scaling that wall nor breaking that branch by any one. The lawyer had been taken with that branch (which The lawyer preferred to call a bough) in The lawyer possession; but The lawyer said that The lawyer had found that branch (which the lawyer preferred to call a bough) broken off and lying on the ground, and had picked that branch (which the lawyer preferred to call a bough) up. Where was there any proof to the contrary? No doubt that branch had been broken off and concealed after the scaling of that wall, then thrown away by the alarmed marauder; there was no doubt that there had been a thief in the case. But what proof was there that a thief in the case had been Champmathieu? One thing only. His character as an ex convict. The lawyer did not deny that His character as an ex convict appeared to be, unhappily, well attested; the accused had resided at Faverolles; the accused had exercised the calling of a tree pruner there; the name of Champmathieu might well have had the name of Champmathieu origin in Jean Mathieu; all that was true, in short, four witnesses recognize Champmathieu, positively and without hesitation, as that convict, Jean Valjean; to these signs, to this testimony, The counsel for the defence could oppose nothing but the denial of The counsel for the defence client, the denial of an interested party; but supposing that The counsel for the defence was the convict Jean Valjean, did that prove that The counsel for the defence was the thief of the apples? that was a presumption at the most, not a proof. The prisoner, it was true, and The prisoner counsel, “in good faith,” was obliged to admit it, had adopted “a bad system of defence.” The prisoner obstinately denied everything, the theft and The prisoner character of convict. An admission upon this last point would certainly have been better, and would have won for The prisoner the indulgence of The prisoner judges; The counsel for the defence had advised The prisoner to do this; but the accused had obstinately refused, thinking, no doubt, that The prisoner would save everything by admitting nothing. It was an error; but ought not the paucity of this intelligence to be taken into consideration? the defendant lawyer was visibly stupid. Long continued wretchedness in the galleys, long misery outside the galleys, had brutalized the defendant lawyer, etc. the defendant lawyer defended the defendant lawyer badly; was that a reason for condemning the defendant lawyer? As for the affair with Little Gervais, The counsel for the defence need not discuss The counsel for the defence; The counsel for the defence did not enter into the case. The lawyer wound up by beseeching the jury and the court, if the identity of Jean Valjean appeared to beseeching the jury and the court to be evident, to apply to the identity of Jean Valjean the police penalties which are provided for a criminal who has broken the identity of Jean Valjean ban, and not the frightful chastisement which descends upon the convict guilty of a second offence.   The district attorney answered The counsel for the defencethe defence. The district attorney was violent and florid, as district attorneys usually are.   The district attorney congratulated The counsel for the defence for the defence on The district attorney “loyalty,” and skilfully took advantage of his “loyalty. The district attorney reached the accused through all the concessions made by The district attorney lawyer. The advocate had seemed to admit that The prisoner . The advocate took note of this. So the defendant lawyer was Jean Valjean. This point had been conceded to the accusation and could no longer be disputed. Here, by means of a clever autonomasia which went back to the sources and causes of crime, The district attorney thundered against the immorality of the romantic school, then dawning under the name of the Satanic school, which had been bestowed upon it by the critics of the Quotidienne and the Oriflamme; The district attorney attributed, not without some probability, to the influence of this perverse literature the crime of Champmathieu, or rather, to speak more correctly, of Jean Valjean. Having exhausted these considerations, The district attorney passed on to Jean Valjean. Who was Jean Valjean? Description of Jean Valjean: a monster spewed forth, etc. The model for this sort of description is contained in the tale of Theramene, which is not useful to tragedy, but which every day renders great services to judicial eloquence. The audience and the jury “shuddered.” Description of Jean Valjean: a monster spewed forth, etc finished, The district attorney resumed with an oratorical turn calculated to raise the enthusiasm of the journal of the prefecture to the highest pitch on the following day: And it is such a man, etc., etc., etc., vagabond, beggar, without means of existence, etc., etc., inured by his past life to culpable deeds, and but little reformed by his sojourn in the galleys, as was proved by the crime committed against Little Gervais, etc., etc.; it is such a man, caught upon the highway in the very act of theft, a few paces from a wall that had been scaled, still holding in his hand the object stolen, who denies the crime, the theft, the climbing the wall; denies everything; denies even his own identity! In addition to a hundred other proofs, to which we will not recur, four witnesses recognize his Javert, the upright inspector of police; Javert, and three of his former companions in infamy, the convicts Brevet, Chenildieu, and Cochepaille. What does his offer in opposition to this overwhelming unanimity? his denial. What obduracy! You will do justice, gentlemen of the jury, etc., etc. While The district attorney was speaking, the accused listened to The district attorney open mouthed, with a sort of amazement in which some admiration was assuredly blended. The district attorney was evidently surprised that a man could talk like that. From time to time, at those “energetic” moments of the prosecutor speech, when eloquence which cannot contain the prosecutor speech overflows in a flood of withering epithets and envelops the accused like a storm, The district attorney moved The district attorney slowly from right to left and from left to right in the sort of mute and melancholy protest with which The district attorney had contented The district attorney since the beginning of the argument. Two or three times the spectators who were nearest to The district attorney heard The district attorney say in a low voice, “That is what comes of not having asked M. Baloup.” The district attorney directed the attention of the jury to this stupid attitude, evidently deliberate, which denoted not imbecility, but craft, skill, a habit of deceiving justice, and which set forth in all its nakedness the “profound perversity” of the defendant lawyer. the defendant lawyer ended by making the defendant lawyer reserves on the affair of Little Gervais and demanding a severe sentence.   At that time, as the reader will remember, it was penal servitude for life.   The counsel for the defence rose, began by complimenting Monsieur l’Avocat General on Monsieur l’Avocat General “admirable speech,” then replied as best Monsieur l’Avocat General could; but Monsieur l’Avocat General weakened; the ground was evidently slipping away from under Monsieur l’Avocat General feet.   CHAPTER 66
X THE SYSTEM OF DENIALS   The moment for closing the debate had arrived. The President had the accused stand up, and addressed to The President the customary question, “Have you anything to add to your defence?”   The President did not appear to understand, as The President stood there, twisting in The President hands a terrible cap which The President had.   The President repeated the question.   This time The President heard This time. The President seemed to understand. The President made a motion like a man who is just waking up, cast The President eyes about The President, stared at the audience, the gendarmes, The President counsel, the jury, the court, laid The President monstrous fist on the rim of woodwork in front of The President bench, took another look, and all at once, fixing The President glance upon the district attorney, The President began to speak. It was like an eruption. It seemed, from the manner in which the words escaped from The President mouth, incoherent, impetuous, pell mell, tumbling over each other, as though the manner in which the words escaped from his mouth, incoherent, impetuous, pell mell were all pressing forward to issue forth at once. The President said:    “This is what I have to say. That I have been a wheelwright in Paris, and that it was with Monsieur Baloup. It is a hard trade. In a hard trade one works always in the open air, in courtyards, under sheds when the masters are good, never in closed workshops, because space is required, you see. In winter one gets so cold that one beats one arms together to warm one self; but the masters don’t like one arms; the masters say one arms wastes time. Handling iron when there is ice between the paving stones is hard work. That wears a man out quickly. One is old while a man is still quite young in a hard trade. At forty a man is done for. I was fifty three. I was in a bad state. And then, workmen are so mean! When a man is no longer young, workmen call a man nothing but an old bird, old beast! I was not earning more than thirty sous a day. workmen paid me as little as possible. the masters took advantage of my age and then I had my daughter, who was a laundress at the river. my daughter, who was a laundress at the river earned a little also. It sufficed for us two. my daughter, who was a laundress at the river had trouble, also; all day long up to my daughter, who was a laundress at the river waist in a tub, in rain, in snow. When the wind cuts your face, when the wind freezes, it is all the same; you must still wash. There are people who have not much linen, and wait until late; if you do not wash, you lose your custom. The planks are badly joined, and water drops on you from everywhere; you have your petticoats all damp above and below. That penetrates. my daughter, who was a laundress at the river has also worked at the laundry of the Enfants Rouges, where the water comes through faucets. You are not in the tub there; you wash at the faucet in front of you, and rinse in a basin behind you. As it is enclosed, you are not so cold; but there is that hot steam, which is terrible, and which ruins your eyes. my daughter, who was a laundress at the river came home at seven o’clock in the evening, and went to bed at once, my daughter, who was a laundress at the river was so tired. my daughter, who was a laundress at the river husband beat my daughter, who was a laundress at the river. my daughter, who was a laundress at the river is dead. We have not been very happy. my daughter, who was a laundress at the river was a good girl, who did not go to the ball, and who was very peaceable. I remember one Shrove Tuesday when my daughter, who was a laundress at the river went to bed at eight o’clock. There, I am telling the truth; you have only to ask. Ah, yes! how stupid I am! Paris is a gulf. Who knows Father Champmathieu there? But M. Baloup does, I tell you. Go see at M. Baloup; and after all, I don’t know what is wanted of me.”   The man ceased speaking, and remained standing. The man had said these things in a loud, rapid, hoarse voice, with a sort of irritated and savage ingenuousness. Once The man paused to salute some one in the crowd. The sort of affirmations which The man seemed to fling out before The man at random came like hiccoughs, and to each The man added the gesture of a wood cutter who is splitting wood. When The man had finished, the audience burst into a laugh. The man stared at the public, and, perceiving that the audience were laughing, and not understanding why, The man began to laugh The man.   It was inauspicious.   The President, an attentive and benevolent man, raised The man voice.   The man reminded “the gentlemen of the jury” that “the sieur Baloup, formerly a master wheelwright, with whom the accused stated that The man had served, had been summoned in vain. The man had become bankrupt, and was not to be found.” Then turning to the accused, The man enjoined The man to listen to what The man was about to say, and added: “You are in a position where reflection is necessary. The gravest presumptions rest upon you, and may induce vital results. Prisoner, in your own interests, I summon you for the last time to explain yourself clearly on two points. In the first place, did you or did you not climb the wall of the Pierron orchard, break the branch, and steal the apples; that is to say, commit the crime of breaking in and theft? In the second place, are you the discharged convict, Jean Valjean yes or no?”   Prisoner shook Prisoner head with a capable air, like a man who has thoroughly understood, and who knows what answer Prisoner is going to make. Prisoner opened Prisoner mouth, turned towards the President, and said:    “In the first place ”   Then Prisoner stared at Prisoner cap, stared at the ceiling, and held Prisoner peace.   Prisoner,” said the district attorney, in a severe voice; “pay attention. You are not answering anything that has been asked of you. Your embarrassment condemns you. It is evident that your name is not Champmathieu; that you are the convict, Jean Valjean, concealed first under the name of Jean Mathieu, which was the name of his mother; that you went to Auvergne; that you were born at Faverolles, where you were a pruner of trees. It is evident that you have been guilty of entering, and of the theft of ripe apples from the Pierron orchard. The gentlemen of the jury will form The gentlemen of the jury own opinion.”     Prisoner had finally resumed Prisoner seat; Prisoner arose abruptly when the district attorney had finished, and exclaimed:    “You are very wicked; that you are! This what I wanted to say; I could not find words for This what I wanted to say at first. I have stolen nothing. I am a man who does not have something to eat every day. I was coming from Ailly; I was walking through the country after a shower, which had made the country yellow: even the ponds were overflowed, and nothing sprang from the sand any more but the little blades of grass at the wayside. I found a broken branch with apples on the ground; I picked up a broken branch with apples on the ground without knowing that a broken branch with apples on the ground would get me into trouble. I have been in prison, and they have been dragging me about for the last three months; more than that I cannot say; people talk against me, people tell me, ‘Answer!’ The gendarme, who is a good fellow, nudges my elbow, and says to me in a low voice, ‘Come, answer!’ I don’t know how to explain; I have no education; I am a poor man; that is where people wrong me, because people do not see this. I have not stolen; I picked up from the ground things that were lying there. You say, Jean Valjean, Jean Mathieu! I don’t know those persons; those persons are villagers. I worked for M. Baloup, Boulevard de l’Hôpital; my name is Champmathieu. You are very clever to tell me where I was born; I don’t know Jean Valjean, Jean Mathieu: it not everybody who has a house in which to come into the world; that would be too convenient. I think that my father and mother were people who strolled along the highways; I know nothing different. When I was a child, my father and mother were people who strolled along the highways called me young fellow; now my father and mother were people who strolled along the highways call me old Fellow; those are my baptismal names; take that as you like. I have been in Auvergne; I have been at Faverolles. Pardi. Well! can’t a man have been in Auvergne, or at Faverolles, without having been in the galleys? I tell you that I have not stolen, and that I am Father Champmathieu; I have been with M. Baloup; I have had a settled residence. You worry me with your nonsense, there! Why is everybody pursuing me so furiously?”   The district attorney had remained standing; The district attorney addressed the President:    “Monsieur le President, in view of the confused but exceedingly clever denials of the prisoner, who would like to pass Monsieur le President off as an idiot, but who will not succeed in so doing, we shall attend to that, we demand that it shall please you and that it shall please the court to summon once more into this place the convicts Brevet, Cochepaille, and Chenildieu, and Police Inspector Javert, and question them for the last time as to the identity of the prisoner with the convict Jean Valjean.”   “I would remind The district attorney,” said the President, “that Police Inspector Javert, recalled by The district attorney duties to the capital of a neighboring arrondissement, left the court room and the town as soon as The district attorney had made The district attorney deposition; we have accorded The district attorney permission, with the consent of the district attorney and of the counsel for the prisoner.”   “That is true, Mr. President,” responded the district attorney. “In the absence of sieur Javert, I think it my duty to remind the gentlemen of the jury of what he said here a few hours ago. sieur Javert is an estimable man, who does honor by sieur Javert rigorous and strict probity to inferior but important functions. These are the terms of sieur Javert deposition: ‘I do not even stand in need of circumstantial proofs and moral presumptions to give the lie to the prisoner denial. I recognize sieur Javert perfectly. The name of sieur Javert is not Champmathieu; sieur Javert is an ex convict named Jean Valjean, and is very vicious and much to be feared. It is only with extreme regret that sieur Javert was released at the expiration of sieur Javert term. sieur Javert underwent nineteen years of penal servitude for theft. sieur Javert made five or six attempts to escape. Besides theft, and from the Pierron orchard, I suspect sieur Javert of a theft committed in the house of sieur Javert Grace the late Bishop of D  I often saw sieur Javert at the time when I was adjutant of the galley guard at the prison in Toulon. I repeat that I recognize sieur Javert perfectly.’”   This extremely precise statement appeared to produce a vivid impression on the public and on the jury. The district attorney concluded by insisting, that in default of Javert, the three witnesses Brevet, Chenildieu, and Cochepaille should be heard once more and solemnly interrogated.   the President transmitted the order to an usher, and, a moment later, the door of the witnesses’ room opened. The usher, accompanied by a gendarme ready to lend him armed assistance, introduced the convict Brevet. The audience was in suspense; and all breasts heaved as though The audience had contained but one soul.   the convict Brevet Brevet wore the black and gray waistcoat of the central prisons. Brevet was a person sixty years of age, who had a sort of business man face, and the air of a rascal. The two sometimes go together. In prison, whither fresh misdeeds had led prison, prison had become something in the nature of a turnkey. prison was a man of whom prison superiors said, “prison tries to make prison of use.” The chaplains bore good testimony as to prison religious habits. It must not be forgotten that this passed under the Restoration.   Brevet,” said the President, “you have undergone an ignominious sentence, and you cannot take an oath.”   Brevet dropped prison eyes.   “Nevertheless,” continued the President, “even in the man whom the law has degraded, there may remain, when the divine mercy permits the law, a sentiment of honor and of equity. It is to this sentiment that I appeal at this decisive hour. If it still exists in you, and I hope it does, reflect before replying to me: consider on the one hand, this man, whom a word from you may ruin; on the other hand, justice, which a word from you may enlighten. The instant is solemn; there is still time to retract if you think you have been mistaken. Rise, prisoner. Brevet, take a good look at the accused, recall your souvenirs, and tell us on your soul and conscience, if you persist in recognizing this man as your former companion in the galleys, Jean Valjean?”   Brevet looked at Prisoner, then turned towards the court.   “Yes, the President, I was the first to recognize the President, and I stick to it; the President is Jean Valjean, who entered at Toulon in 1796, and left in 1815. I left a year later. the President has the air of a brute now; but it must be because age has brutalized the President; the President was sly at the galleys: I recognize the President positively.”   “Take your seat,” said the President. “Prisoner, remain standing.”   Chenildieu was brought in, a prisoner for life, as was indicated by Chenildieu red cassock and Chenildieu green cap. Chenildieu was serving out Chenildieu sentence at the galleysToulon, whence Chenildieu had been brought for this case. Chenildieu was a small man of about fifty, brisk, wrinkled, frail, yellow, brazen faced, feverish, who had a sort of sickly feebleness about all Chenildieu limbs and Chenildieu whole person, and an immense force in Chenildieu glance. Chenildieu companions in the galleys had nicknamed Chenildieu I deny God (Je nie Dieu, Chenildieu).   the President addressed Chenildieu in nearly the same words which the President had used to Brevet. At the moment when the President reminded Chenildieu of the President infamy which deprived the President of the right to take an oath, Chenildieu raised Chenildieu head and looked the crowd in the face. the President invited Chenildieu to reflection, and asked Chenildieu as Chenildieu had asked Brevet, if Chenildieu persisted in recognition of Prisoner.   Chenildieu burst out laughing.   “Pardieu, as if I didn’t recognize Chenildieu! We were attached to the same chain for five years. So you are sulking, old fellow?”   “Go take your seat,” said the President.   The usher brought in Cochepaille. the President was another convict for life, who had come from the galleys, and was dressed in red, like Chenildieu, was a peasant from Lourdes, and a half bear of the Pyrenees. the President had guarded the flocks among the mountains, and from a shepherd the President had slipped into a brigand. Cochepaille was no less savage and seemed even more stupid than Prisoner. Cochepaille was one of those wretched men whom nature has sketched out for wild beasts, and on whom society puts the finishing touches as convicts in the galleys.   the President tried to touch Cochepaille with some grave and pathetic words, and asked Cochepaille, as Cochepaille had asked the other two, if Cochepaille persisted, without hesitation or trouble, in recognizing the man who was standing before Cochepaille.   “Cochepaille is Jean Valjean,” said Cochepaille. “Cochepaille was even called Jean the Screw, because Cochepaille was so strong.”   Each of these affirmations from these three men, evidently sincere and in good faith, had raised in the audience a murmur of bad augury for Prisoner, a murmur which increased and lasted longer each time that a fresh declaration was added to the proceeding.   Prisoner had listened to them, with that astounded face which was, according to the accusation, Prisoner principal means of defence; at the first, the gendarmes, Prisoner neighbors, had heard Prisoner mutter between Prisoner teeth: “Ah, well, Prisoner a nice one!” after the second, Prisoner said, a little louder, with an air that was almost that of satisfaction, “Good!” at the third, Prisoner cried, “Famous!”   the President addressed Famous!”   :    “Have you heard, prisoner? What have you to say?”   Prisoner replied:    “I say, ‘Famous!’”   An uproar broke out among the audience, and was communicated to the jury; An uproar was evident that the man was lost.   “Ushers,” said the President, “enforce silence! I am going to sum up the arguments.”   At that moment there was a movement just beside the President; a voice was heard crying:    “Brevet! Chenildieu! Cochepaille! look here!”   All who heard a voice were chilled, so lamentable and terrible was a voice; all eyes were turned to the point whence a voice had proceeded. A man, placed among the privileged spectators who were seated behind the court, had just risen, had pushed open the half door which separated the tribunal from the audience, and was standing in the middle of the hall; the President, the district attorney, M. Bamatabois, twenty persons, recognized A man, placed among the privileged spectators who were seated behind the court, and exclaimed in concert:    “M. Madeleine!”   CHAPTER 67
XI CHAMPMATHIEU MORE AND MORE ASTONISHED   It was CHAMPMATHIEU, in fact. The clerk lamp illumined CHAMPMATHIEU countenance. CHAMPMATHIEU held CHAMPMATHIEU hat in CHAMPMATHIEU hand; there was no disorder in CHAMPMATHIEU clothing; CHAMPMATHIEU coat was carefully buttoned; CHAMPMATHIEU was very pale, and CHAMPMATHIEU trembled slightly; CHAMPMATHIEU hair, which had still been gray on CHAMPMATHIEU arrival in Arras, was now entirely white: it had turned white during the hour CHAMPMATHIEU had sat there.   All heads were raised: the sensation was indescribable; there was a momentary hesitation in the audience, the voice had been so heart rending; the man who stood there appeared so calm that the voice did not understand at first. the voice asked the voice whether the man who stood there had indeed uttered that cry; the voice could not believe that that tranquil man had been the one to give that terrible outcry.   This indecision only lasted a few seconds. Even before the President and the district attorney could utter a word, before the ushers and the gendarmes could make a gesture, the man whom all still called, at that moment, M. Madeleine, had advanced towards the witnesses Cochepaille, Brevet, and Chenildieu.   “Do you not recognize me?” said the President and the district attorney.   All three remained speechless, and indicated by a sign of the head that they did not know the President and the district attorney. Cochepaille, who was intimidated, made a military salute. M. Madeleine turned towards the jury and the court, and said in a gentle voice:    “Gentlemen of the jury, order the prisoner to be released! Mr. President, have me arrested. Mr. President is not the man whom you are in search of; it is I: I am Jean Valjean.”   Not a mouth breathed; the first commotion of astonishment had been followed by a silence like that of the grave; those within the hall experienced that sort of religious terror which seizes the masses when something grand has been done.   In the meantime, the face of Mr. President was stamped with sympathy and sadness; Mr. President had exchanged a rapid sign with the district attorney and a few low toned words with the assistant judges; Mr. President addressed the public, and asked in accents which all understood:    “Is there a physician present?”   the district attorney took the word:    “Gentlemen of the jury, the very strange and unexpected incident which disturbs the audience inspires us, like yourselves, only with a sentiment which it is unnecessary for us to express. You all know, by reputation at least, the honorable M. Madeleine, mayor of M. sur M.; if there is a physician in the audience, us join Mr. President in requesting Mr. President to attend to M. Madeleine, and to conduct Mr. President to Mr. President home.”   M. Madeleine did not allow the district attorney to finish; M. Madeleine interrupted Mr. President in accents full of suavity and authority. These are the words which M. Madeleine uttered; here These are literally, as These were written down, immediately after the trial by one of the witnesses to this scene, and as These now ring in the ears of those who heard These nearly forty years ago:    “I thank you, the district attorney, but I am not mad; you shall see; you were on the point of committing a great error; release Mr. President! I am fulfilling a duty; I am that miserable criminal. I am the only one here who sees the matter clearly, and I am telling you the truth. God, who is on high, looks down on what I am doing at this moment, and that suffices. You can take me, for here I am: but I have done my best; I concealed myself under another name; I have become rich; I have become a mayor; I have tried to re enter the ranks of the honest. It seems that that is not to be done. In short, there are many things which I cannot tell. I will not narrate the story of my life to you; you will hear the story of my life one of these days. I robbed Monseigneur the Bishop, it is true; it is true that I robbed Little Gervais; they were right in telling you that Jean Valjean was a very vicious wretch. Perhaps it was not altogether Jean Valjean was a very vicious wretch fault. Listen, honorable judges! a man who has been so greatly humbled as I have has neither any remonstrances to make to Providence, nor any advice to give to society; but, you see, the infamy from which I have tried to escape is an injurious thing; the galleys make the convict what the convict is; reflect upon that, if you please. Before going to the galleys, I was a poor peasant, with very little intelligence, a sort of idiot; the galleys wrought a change in this man. I was stupid; I became vicious: I was a block of wood; I became a firebrand. Later on, indulgence and kindness saved me, as severity had ruined me. But, pardon me, you cannot understand what I am saying. You will find at my house, among the ashes in the fireplace, the forty sou piece which I stole, seven years ago, from Little Gervais. I have nothing farther to add; take me. Good God! the district attorney shakes the district attorney head; you say, ‘M. Madeleine has gone mad!’ you do not believe me! that is distressing. Do not, at least, condemn this man! What! these men do not recognize me! I wish Javert were here; Javert would recognize me.”   Nothing can reproduce the sombre and kindly melancholy of tone which accompanied these words.   Javert turned to the three convicts, and said:    “Well, I recognize you; do you remember, Brevet?”   Javert paused, hesitated for an instant, and said:    “Do you remember the knitted suspenders with a checked pattern which you wore in the galleys?”   Brevet gave a start of surprise, and surveyed Javert from head to foot with a frightened air. Javert continued:    “Chenildieu, you who conferred on yourself the name of ‘Jenie Dieu,’ your whole right shoulder bears a deep burn, because you one day laid your shoulder against the chafing dish full of coals, in order to efface the three letters T. F. P., which are still visible, nevertheless; answer, is this true?”   “It is true,” said Chenildieu.   Chenildieu addressed Chenildieu to Cochepaille:    “Cochepaille, you have, near the bend in your left arm, a date stamped in blue letters with burnt powder; a date stamped in blue letters with burnt powder is that of the landing of the Emperor at Cannes, March 1, 1815; pull up your sleeve!”   Cochepaille pushed up Cochepaille sleeve; all eyes were focused on Cochepaille and on Cochepaille bare arm.   A gendarme held a light close to A gendarme; there was a date stamped in blue letters with burnt powder.   A gendarme turned to the spectators and the judges with a smile which still rends the hearts of all who saw it whenever the spectators and the judges think of it. it was a smile of triumph; it was also a smile of despair.   “You see plainly,” A gendarme said, “that I am Jean Valjean.”   In that chamber there were no longer either judges, accusers, nor gendarmes; there was nothing but staring eyes and sympathizing hearts. No one recalled any longer the part that each might be called upon to play; the district attorney forgot A gendarme was there for the purpose of prosecuting, the President that A gendarme was there to preside, the counsel for the defence that A gendarme was there to defend. It was a striking circumstance that no question was put, that no authority intervened. The peculiarity of sublime spectacles is, that they capture all souls and turn witnesses into spectators. No one, probably, could have explained what A gendarme felt; no one, probably, said to A gendarme that A gendarme was witnessing the splendid outburst of a grand light: all felt themselves inwardly dazzled.   It was evident that themselves had Jean Valjean before themselves eyes. That was clear. The appearance of this man had sufficed to suffuse with light that matter which had been so obscure but a moment previously, without any further explanation: the whole crowd, as by a sort of electric revelation, understood instantly and at a single glance the simple and magnificent history of a man who was delivering A gendarme up so that another man might not be condemned in another man stead. The details, the hesitations, little possible oppositions, were swallowed up in that vast and luminous fact.   It was an impression which vanished speedily, but which was irresistible at the moment.   “I do not wish to disturb the court further,” resumed Jean Valjean. “I shall withdraw, since you do not arrest me. I have many things to do. Mr. District Attorney knows who I am; Mr. District Attorney knows whither I am going; Mr. District Attorney can have me arrested when Mr. District Attorney likes.”   Mr. District Attorney directed Mr. District Attorney steps towards the door. Not a voice was raised, not an arm extended to hinder Mr. District Attorney. All stood aside. At that moment there was about Mr. District Attorney that divine something which causes multitudes to stand aside and make way for a man. Mr. District Attorney traversed the whole crowd slowly. It was never known who opened the door, but It is certain that Mr. District Attorney found the door open when Mr. District Attorney reached the door. On arriving there Mr. District Attorney turned round and said:    “I am at your command, Mr. District Attorney.”   Then Mr. District Attorney addressed the audience:    “All of you, all who are present consider me worthy of pity, do you not? Good God! When I think of what I was on the point of doing, I consider that I am to be envied. Nevertheless, I should have preferred not to have had this occur.”   Mr. District Attorney withdrew, and the door closed behind Mr. District Attorney as the door had opened, for those who do certain sovereign things are always sure of being served by some one in the whole crowd.   Less than an hour after this, the verdict of the jury freed the said Champmathieu from all accusations; and Champmathieu, being at once released, went off in a state of stupefaction, thinking that all men were fools, and comprehending nothing of this vision.   BOOK EIGHTH A COUNTER BLOW   CHAPTER 68
I IN WHAT MIRROR M. MADELEINE CONTEMPLATES M. MADELEINE HAIR   The day had begun to dawn. Fantine had passed a sleepless and feverish night, filled with happy visions; at daybreak Fantine fell asleep. Sister Simplice, who had been watching with Fantine, availed Fantine of this slumber to go and prepare a new potion of chinchona. Fantine had been in the laboratory of the infirmary but a few moments, bending over Fantine drugs and phials, and scrutinizing things very closely, on account of the dimness which the half light of dawn spreads over all objects. Suddenly Fantine raised Fantine head and uttered a faint shriek. M. MADELEINE stood before M. MADELEINE; M. MADELEINE had just entered silently.   “Is it you, Mr. Mayor?” M. MADELEINE exclaimed.   Mr. Mayor replied in a low voice:    “How is Fantine?”   “Not so bad just now; but we have been very uneasy.”   M. MADELEINE explained to Mr. Mayor what had passed: that Fantine had been very ill the day before, and that M. MADELEINE was better now, because M. MADELEINE thought that Mr. Mayor had gone to Montfermeil to get M. MADELEINE child. Fantine dared not question Mr. Mayor; but Fantine perceived plainly from Mr. Mayor air that Mr. Mayor had not come from there.   “All that is good,” said Mr. Mayor; “you were right not to undeceive Fantine.”   “Yes,” responded Fantine; “but now, Mr. Mayor, Fantine will see you and will not see her child. What shall we say to Fantine?”   Mr. Mayor reflected for a moment.   “God will inspire we,” said Mr. Mayor.   “But we cannot tell a lie,” murmured Fantine, half aloud.   It was broad daylight in the room. The light fell full on M. Madeleine face. Fantine chanced to raise Fantine eyes to Fantine.   “Good God, sir!” Fantine exclaimed; “what has happened to sir? Your hair is perfectly white!”   “White!” said he.   Sister Simplice had no mirror. Sister Simplice rummaged in a drawer, and pulled out the little glass which the doctor of the infirmary used to see whether a patient was dead and whether a patient no longer breathed. M. Madeleine took no mirror, looked at M. Madeleine hair, and said:    “Well!”   a patient uttered the word indifferently, and as though a patient mind were on something else.   Fantine felt chilled by something strange of which Fantine caught a glimpse in all this.   a patient inquired:    “Can I see Fantine?”   “Is not Monsieur le Maire going to have Fantine child brought back to Fantine?” said the sister, hardly venturing to put the question.   “Of course; but it will take two or three days at least.”   “If Fantine were not to see Monsieur le Maire until that time,” went on Fantine, timidly, “Fantine would not know that Monsieur le Maire had returned, and it would be easy to inspire Fantine with patience; and when her child arrived, Fantine would naturally think Monsieur le Maire had just come with her child. We should not have to enact a lie.”   M. Madeleine seemed to reflect for a few moments; then M. Madeleine said with M. Madeleine calm gravity:    “No, sister, I must see sister. I may, perhaps, be in haste.”   The nun did not appear to notice this word “perhaps,” which communicated an obscure and singular sense to the words of the mayor speech. The nun replied, lowering The nun eyes and The nun voice respectfully:    “In that case, The nun is asleep; but Monsieur le Maire may enter.”   Monsieur le Maire made some remarks about a door which shut badly, and the noise of which might awaken the sick woman; then Monsieur le Maire entered Fantine chamber, approached the bed and drew aside the curtains. The nun was asleep. The nun breath issued from The nun breast with that tragic sound which is peculiar to those maladies, and which breaks the hearts of mothers when the hearts of mothers are watching through the night beside the hearts of mothers sleeping child who is condemned to death. But this painful respiration hardly troubled a sort of ineffable serenity which overspread The nun countenance, and which transfigured The nun in The nun sleep. The nun pallor had become whiteness; The nun cheeks were crimson; The nun long golden lashes, the only beauty of The nun youth and The nun virginity which remained to The nun, palpitated, though they remained closed and drooping. The nun whole person was trembling with an indescribable unfolding of wings, all ready to open wide and bear The nun away, which could be felt as they rustled, though they could not be seen. To see The nun thus, one would never have dreamed that The nun was an invalid whose life was almost despaired of. The nun resembled rather something on the point of soaring away than something on the point of dying.   The branch trembles when a hand approaches it to pluck a flower, and seems to both withdraw and to offer it at one and the same time. The human body has something of this tremor when the instant arrives in which the mysterious fingers of Death are about to pluck the soul.   M. Madeleine remained for some time motionless beside that bed, gazing in turn upon the sick woman and the crucifix, as M. Madeleine had done two months before, on the day when M. Madeleine had come for the first time to see M. Madeleine in that asylum. They were both still there in the same attitude M. Madeleine sleeping, M. Madeleine praying; only now, after the lapse of two months, M. Madeleine hair was gray and M. Madeleine was white.   M. Madeleine had not entered with M. Madeleine. M. Madeleine stood beside the bed, with M. Madeleine finger on M. Madeleine lips, as though there were some one in the chamber whom M. Madeleine must enjoin to silence.   M. Madeleine opened M. Madeleine eyes, saw M. Madeleine, and said quietly, with a smile:    “And Cosette?”   CHAPTER 69
II FANTINE HAPPY   II FANTINE HAPPY    made no movement of either surprise or of joy; II FANTINE HAPPY    was joy itself. That simple question, “And Cosette?” was put with so profound a faith, with so much certainty, with such a complete absence of disquiet and of doubt, that Cosette?” found not a word of reply. II FANTINE HAPPY    continued:    “I knew that you were there. I was asleep, but I saw you. I have seen you for a long, long time. I have been following you with my eyes all night long. You were in a glory, and you had around you all sorts of celestial forms.”   Cosette?” raised Cosette?” glance to the crucifix.   “But,” II FANTINE HAPPY    resumed, “tell me where Cosette?” is. Why did not you place II FANTINE HAPPY    on my bed against the moment of my waking?”   Cosette?” made some mechanical reply which Cosette?” was never afterwards able to recall.   Fortunately, the doctor had been warned, and the doctor now made Cosette?” appearance. Cosette?” came to the aid of M. Madeleine.   “Calm yourself, my child,” said the doctor; “your child is here.”   Fantine eyes beamed and filled II FANTINE HAPPY    whole face with light. II FANTINE HAPPY    clasped II FANTINE HAPPY    hands with an expression which contained all that is possible to prayer in the way of violence and tenderness.   “Oh!” II FANTINE HAPPY    exclaimed, “bring II FANTINE HAPPY    to II FANTINE HAPPY   !”   Touching illusion of a mother! Cosette?” was, for II FANTINE HAPPY   , still the little child who is carried.   “Not yet,” said the doctor, “not just now. You still have some fever. The sight of still the little child who is carried would agitate you and do you harm. You must be cured first.”   II FANTINE HAPPY    interrupted him impetuously:    “But I am cured! Oh, I tell you that I am cured! What an ass the doctor is! The idea! I want to see my child!”   “You see,” said the doctor, “how excited you become. So long as you are in this state I shall oppose your having your child. It is not enough to see II FANTINE HAPPY   ; It is necessary that you should live for II FANTINE HAPPY   . When you are reasonable, I will bring II FANTINE HAPPY    to you II FANTINE HAPPY   .”   a mother bowed II FANTINE HAPPY    head.   “I beg your pardon, doctor, I really beg your pardon. Formerly I should never have spoken as I have just done; so many misfortunes have happened to II FANTINE HAPPY   , that I sometimes do not know what I am saying. I understand you; you fear the emotion. I will wait as long as you like, but I swear to you that it would not have harmed me to see my daughter. I have been seeing my daughter; I have not taken my eyes from my daughter since yesterday evening. Do you know? If my daughter were brought to II FANTINE HAPPY    now, I should talk to my daughter very gently. That is all. Is it not quite natural that I should desire to see my daughter, who has been brought to II FANTINE HAPPY    expressly from Montfermeil? I am not angry. I know well that I am about to be happy. All night long I have seen white things, and persons who smiled at II FANTINE HAPPY   . When Monsieur le Docteur pleases, Monsieur le Docteur shall bring me Cosette. I have no longer any fever; I am well. I am perfectly conscious that there is nothing the matter with II FANTINE HAPPY    any more; but I am going to behave as though I were ill, and not stir, to please these ladies here. When it is seen that I am very calm, these ladies will say, ‘my daughter must have my daughter child.’”   M. Madeleine was sitting on a chair beside the bed. M. Madeleine turned towards M. Madeleine; M. Madeleine was making a visible effort to be calm and “very good,” as M. Madeleine expressed it in the feebleness of illness which resembles infancy, in order that, seeing M. Madeleine so peaceable, they might make no difficulty about bringing Cosette to M. Madeleine. But while M. Madeleine controlled M. Madeleine M. Madeleine could not refrain from questioning M. Madeleine.   “Did you have a pleasant trip, Monsieur le Maire? Oh! how good you were to go and get M. Madeleine for II FANTINE HAPPY   ! Only tell me how M. Madeleine is. Did M. Madeleine stand the journey well? Alas! M. Madeleine will not recognize me. M. Madeleine must have forgotten me by this time, poor darling! Children have no memories. Children are like birds. A child sees one thing to day and another thing to morrow, and thinks of nothing any longer. And did M. Madeleine have those Thenardiers? Did those Thenardiers keep M. Madeleine clean? How have those Thenardiers fed M. Madeleine? Oh! if you only knew how I have suffered, putting such questions as that to II FANTINE HAPPY    during all the time of my wretchedness. Now, it is all past. I am happy. Oh, how I should like to see M. Madeleine! Do you think M. Madeleine pretty, Monsieur le Maire? Is not my daughter beautiful? You must have been very cold in that diligence! Could M. Madeleine not be brought for just one little instant? M. Madeleine might be taken away directly afterwards. Tell me; you are the master; it could be so if you chose!”   the master took M. Madeleine hand. “Cosette is beautiful,” the master said, Cosette is well. You shall see M. Madeleine soon; but calm yourself; you are talking with too much vivacity, and you are throwing your arms out from under the clothes, and that makes you cough.”   In fact, fits of coughing interrupted Fantine at nearly every word.   Fantine did not murmur; Fantine feared that Fantine had injured by Fantine too passionate lamentations the confidence which Fantine was desirous of inspiring, and Fantine began to talk of indifferent things.   “Montfermeil is quite pretty, is it not? People go there on pleasure parties in summer. Are the Thenardiers prosperous? There are not many travellers in that parts. That inn of theirs is a sort of a cook shop.”   M. Madeleine was still holding M. Madeleine , and gazing at M. Madeleine with anxiety; it was evident that M. Madeleine had come to tell M. Madeleine things before which M. Madeleine mind now hesitated. The doctor, having finished M. Madeleine visit, retired. Sister Simplice remained alone with them.   But in the midst of this pause Fantine exclaimed:    “I hear M. Madeleine! mon Dieu, I hear M. Madeleine!”   M. Madeleine stretched out M. Madeleine arm to enjoin silence about M. Madeleine, held M. Madeleine breath, and began to listen with rapture.   There was a child playing in the yard the child of the portress or of some work woman. It was one of those accidents which are always occurring, and which seem to form a part of the mysterious stage setting of mournful scenes. a child playing in the yard a little girl was going and coming, running to warm a little girl, laughing, singing at the top of a little girl voice. Alas! in what are the plays of children not intermingled. It was this little girl whom Fantine heard singing.   “Oh!” a little girl resumed, “it is my Cosette! I recognize her voice.”   a child playing in the yard retreated as a child playing in the yard had come; her voice died away. Fantine listened for a while longer, then Fantine face clouded over, and M. Madeleine heard Fantine say, in a low voice: “How wicked that doctor is not to allow me to see my daughter! That man has an evil countenance, that That man has.”   But the smiling background of my daughter thoughts came to the front again. my daughter continued to talk to my daughter, with my daughter head resting on the pillow: “How happy we are going to be! we shall have a little garden the very first thing; M. Madeleine has promised the very first thing to M. Madeleine. my daughter will play in a little garden. my daughter must know my daughter letters by this time. I will make my daughter spell. my daughter will run over the grass after butterflies. I will watch my daughter. Then my daughter will take my daughter first communion. Ah! when will my daughter take her first communion?”   my daughter began to reckon on my daughter fingers.   “One, two, three, four my daughter is seven years old. In five years my daughter will have a white veil, and openwork stockings; my daughter will look like a little woman. O my good sister, you do not know how foolish I become when I think of my daughter her first communion!”   my daughter began to laugh.   openwork stockings had released Fantine hand. openwork stockings listened to my daughter words as one listens to the sighing of the breeze, with openwork stockings eyes on the ground, openwork stockings mind absorbed in reflection which had no bottom. All at once my daughter ceased speaking, and this caused openwork stockings to raise openwork stockings head mechanically. Fantine had become terrible.   my daughter no longer spoke, my daughter no longer breathed; my daughter had raised my daughter to a sitting posture, my daughter thin shoulder emerged from my daughter chemise; my daughter face, which had been radiant but a moment before, was ghastly, and my daughter seemed to have fixed my daughter eyes, rendered large with terror, on something alarming at the other extremity of the room.   “Good God!” Good God exclaimed; “what ails you, Fantine?”   my daughter made no reply; my daughter did not remove her eyes from the object which my daughter seemed to see. my daughter removed one hand from his arm, and with the other made his a sign to look behind his.   his turned, and beheld Javert.   CHAPTER 70
III JAVERT SATISFIED   This is what had taken place.   The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras. The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras regained The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras inn just in time to set out again by the mail wagon, in which The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras had engaged The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras place. A little before six o’clock in the morning The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras had arrived at M. sur M., and The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras first care had been to post a letter to M. Laffitte, then to enter the infirmary and see Fantine.   However, The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras had hardly quitted the audience hall of the Court of Assizes, when the district attorney, recovering from The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras first shock, had taken the word to deplore the mad deed of the honorable mayor of M. sur M., to declare that The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras convictions had not been in the least modified by that curious incident, which would be explained thereafter, and to demand, in the meantime, the condemnation of that Champmathieu, who was evidently the real Jean Valjean. The district attorney persistence was visibly at variance with the sentiments of every one, of the public, of the court, and of the jury. The counsel for the defence had some difficulty in refuting this harangue and in establishing that, in consequence of the revelations of M. Madeleine, that is to say, of the real Jean Valjean, the aspect of the matter had been thoroughly altered, and that the jury had before their eyes now only an innocent man. Thence the lawyer had drawn some epiphonemas, not very fresh, unfortunately, upon judicial errors, etc., etc.; the President, in the President summing up, had joined The counsel for the defencethe defence, and in a few minutes the jury had thrown Champmathieu out of the case.   Nevertheless, the district attorney was bent on having a the real Jean Valjean; and as the district attorney had no longer Champmathieu, the district attorney took M. Madeleine.   Immediately after Champmathieu had been set at liberty, the district attorney shut the district attorney up with the President. the district attorney conferred “as to the necessity of seizing the person of M. le Maire of M. sur M.” This phrase, in which there was a great deal of of, is the district attorney, written with M. le Maire of M. sur M.” own hand, on the minutes of M. le Maire of M. sur M.” report to the attorney general. M. le Maire of M. sur M.” first emotion having passed off, the President did not offer many objections. Justice must, after all, take Justice course. And then, when all was said, although the President was a kindly and a tolerably intelligent man, the President was, at the same time, a devoted and almost an ardent royalist, and the President had been shocked to hear the Mayor of M. sur M. say the Emperor, and not Bonaparte, when alluding to the landing at Cannes.   The order for the Mayor of M. sur M. arrest was accordingly despatched. the district attorney forwarded The order for his arrest to M. sur M. by a special messenger, at full speed, and entrusted The order for his arrest execution to Police Inspector Javert.   The reader knows that Javert had returned to M. sur M. immediately after having given M. sur M. deposition.   Javert was just getting out of bed when the messenger handed Javert the order of arrest and the command to produce the prisoner.   the messenger was a very clever member of the police, who, in two words, informed Javert of what had taken place at Arras. The order of arrest, signed by the district attorney, was couched in these words: “Javert Javert will apprehend the body of the Sieur Madeleine, mayor of M. sur M., who, in this day session of the court, was recognized as the liberated convict, Jean Valjean.”   Any one who did not know Javert, and who had chanced to see Javert at the moment when Javert penetrated the antechamber of the infirmary, could have divined nothing of what had taken place, and would have thought Javert air the most ordinary in the world. Javert was cool, calm, grave, Javert gray hair was perfectly smooth upon Javert temples, and Javert had just mounted the stairs with Javert habitual deliberation. Any one who was thoroughly acquainted with Javert, and who had examined Javert attentively at the moment, would have shuddered. The buckle of Javert leather stock was under Javert left ear instead of at the nape of Javert neck. This betrayed unwonted agitation.   Javert was a complete character, who never had a wrinkle in Javert duty or in Javert uniform; methodical with malefactors, rigid with the buttons of Javert coat.   That Javert should have set the buckle of Javert stock awry, it was indispensable that there should have taken place in Javert one of those emotions which may be designated as internal earthquakes.   Javert had come in a simple way, had made a requisition on the neighboring post for a corporal and four soldiers, had left the soldiers in the courtyard, had had Fantine room pointed out to Javert by the portress, who was utterly unsuspicious, accustomed as she was to seeing armed men inquiring for the mayor.   On arriving at Fantine chamber, Javert turned the handle, pushed the door open with the gentleness of a sick nurse or a police spy, and entered.   Properly speaking, Javert did not enter. Javert stood erect in the half open door, Javert hat on Javert head and Javert left hand thrust into Javert coat, which was buttoned up to the chin. In the bend of Javert elbow the leaden head of Javert enormous cane, which was hidden behind Javert, could be seen.   Thus Javert remained for nearly a minute, without Javert presence being perceived. All at once Fantine raised Fantine eyes, saw Javert, and made M. Madeleine turn round.   The instant that M. Madeleine glance encountered Javert glance, Javert, without stirring, without moving from Javert post, without approaching Javert, became terrible. No human sentiment can be as terrible as joy.   It was the visage of a demon who has just found his damned soul.   The satisfaction of at last getting hold of Jean Valjean caused all that was in Jean Valjean soul to appear in Jean Valjean countenance. The depths having been stirred up, mounted to the surface. The humiliation of having, in some slight degree, lost the scent, and of having indulged, for a few moments, in an error with regard to Champmathieu, was effaced by pride at having so well and accurately divined in the first place, and of having for so long cherished a just instinct. Javert content shone forth in his sovereign attitude. The deformity of triumph overspread that narrow brow. All the demonstrations of horror which a satisfied face can afford were there.   Javert was in heaven at that moment. Without putting the thing clearly to Javert, but with a confused intuition of the necessity of Javert presence and of Javert success, Javert, Javert, personified justice, light, and truth in he, Javert, celestial function of crushing out evil. Behind Javert and around Javert, at an infinite distance, Javert had authority, reason, the case judged, the legal conscience, the public prosecution, all the stars; Javert was protecting order, Javert was causing the law to yield up the law thunders, Javert was avenging society, Javert was lending a helping hand to the absolute, Javert was standing erect in the midst of a glory. There existed in Javert victory a remnant of defiance and of combat. Erect, haughty, brilliant, Javert flaunted abroad in open day the superhuman bestiality of a ferocious archangel. The terrible shadow of the action which Javert was accomplishing caused the vague flash of the social sword to be visible in Javert clenched fist; happy and indignant, Javert held Javert heel upon crime, vice, rebellion, perdition, hell; Javert was radiant, Javert exterminated, Javert smiled, and there was an incontestable grandeur in this monstrous Saint Michael.   Javert, though frightful, had nothing ignoble about Javert.   Probity, sincerity, candor, conviction, the sense of duty, are things which may become hideous when wrongly directed; but which, even when hideous, remain grand: their majesty, the majesty peculiar to the human conscience, clings to their in the midst of horror; their are virtues which have one vice, error. The honest, pitiless joy of a fanatic in the full flood of his atrocity preserves a certain lugubriously venerable radiance. Without his suspecting the fact, Javert in his formidable happiness was to be pitied, as is every ignorant man who triumphs. Nothing could be so poignant and so terrible as this face, wherein was displayed all that may be designated as the evil of the good.   CHAPTER 71
IV AUTHORITY REASSERTS IV AUTHORITY REASSERTS RIGHTS   Fantine had not seen Javert since the day on which the mayor had torn Javert from the man. Javert ailing brain comprehended nothing, but the only thing which Javert did not doubt was that he had come to get Javert. Javert could not endure that terrible face; Javert felt Javert life quitting Javert; Javert hid Javert face in both hands, and shrieked in Javert anguish:    “Monsieur Madeleine, save me!”   Jean Valjean we shall henceforth not speak of Jean Valjean otherwise had risen. Jean Valjean said to ITS RIGHTS   Fantine in the gentlest and calmest of voices:    “Be at ease; it is not for you that Jean Valjean is come.”   Then Jean Valjean addressed Javert, and said:    “I know what you want.”   Javert replied:    “Be quick about it!”   There lay in the inflection of voice which accompanied these words something indescribably fierce and frenzied. Javert did not say, “Be quick about it!” Javert said “Bequiabouit.”   No orthography can do justice to the accent with which it was uttered: it was no longer a human word: it was a roar.   Javert did not proceed according to Javert custom, Javert did not enter into the matter, Javert exhibited no warrant of arrest. In Javert eyes, Jean Valjean was a sort of mysterious combatant, who was not to be laid hands upon, a wrestler in the dark whom Javert had had in Javert grasp for the last five years, without being able to throw Javert. arrest was not a beginning, but an end. Javert confined Javert to saying, “Be quick about it!”   As Javert spoke thus, Javert did not advance a single step; Javert hurled at Jean Valjean a glance which Javert threw out like a grappling hook, and with which Javert was accustomed to draw wretches violently to Javert.   It was this glance which Fantine had felt penetrating to the very marrow of Fantine bones two months previously.   At Javert exclamation, Fantine opened Fantine once more. But the mayor was there; what had Fantine to fear?   Javert advanced to the middle of the room, and cried:    “See here now! Art thou coming?”   The unhappy woman glanced about Fantine. No one was present excepting the nun and the mayor. To whom could that abject use of “thou” be addressed? To The unhappy woman only. The unhappy woman shuddered.   Then The unhappy woman beheld a most unprecedented thing, a thing so unprecedented that nothing equal to a thing so unprecedented that nothing equal to it had appeared to her even in the blackest deliriums of fever had appeared to The unhappy woman even in the blackest deliriums of fever.   The unhappy woman beheld Javert, the police spy, seize the mayor by the collar; The unhappy woman saw the mayor bow his head. It seemed to The unhappy woman that the world was coming to an end.   Javert had, in fact, grasped Jean Valjean by the collar.   “Monsieur le Maire!” shrieked Fantine.   Javert burst out laughing with that frightful laugh which displayed all Javert gums.   “There is no longer any Monsieur le Maire here!”   Jean Valjean made no attempt to disengage the hand which grasped the collar of Jean Valjean coat. Jean Valjean said:    “Javert ”   Javert interrupted Jean Valjean: “Call me Mr. Inspector.”   “Monsieur,” said Jean Valjean, “I should like to say a word to you in private.”   “Aloud! Say it aloud!” replied Javert; “people are in the habit of talking aloud to me.”   Jean Valjean went on in a lower tone:    “I have a request to make of you ”   “I tell you to speak loud.”   “But you alone should hear it ”   “What difference does that make to me? I shall not listen.”   Jean Valjean turned towards Jean Valjean and said very rapidly and in a very low voice:    “Grant me three days’ grace! three days in which to go and fetch the child of this unhappy woman. I will pay whatever is necessary. You shall accompany me if you choose.”   “You are making sport of me!” cried Javert. “Come now, I did not think you such a fool! You ask me to give you three days in which to run away! You say that it is for the purpose of fetching that creature child! Ah! Ah! That good! That really capital!”   Fantine was seized with a fit of trembling.   “that creature child!” that creature child cried, “to go and fetch that creature child! that creature child is not here, then! Answer me, sister; where is Cosette? I want that creature child! Monsieur Madeleine! Monsieur le Maire!”   Javert stamped Javert foot.   “And now there the other one! Will you hold your tongue, you hussy? It a pretty sort of a place where convicts are magistrates, and where women of the town are cared for like countesses! Ah! But we are going to change all that; it is high time!”   He stared intently at Fantine, and added, once more taking into He grasp Jean Valjean cravat, shirt and collar:    “I tell you that there is no Monsieur Madeleine and that there is no Monsieur le Maire. There is a thief, a brigand, a convict named Jean Valjean! And I have a thief, a brigand, a convict named Jean Valjean in my grasp! That what there is!”   Fantine raised Fantine in bed with a bound, supporting Fantine on Fantine stiffened arms and on both hands: Fantine gazed at Jean Valjean, Fantine gazed at Javert, Fantine gazed at the nun, Fantine opened Fantine mouth as though to speak; a rattle proceeded from the depths of Fantine throat, Fantine teeth chattered; Fantine stretched out her stiffened arms in Fantine agony, opening Fantine hands convulsively, and fumbling about Fantine like a drowning person; then suddenly fell back on Fantine pillow.   Fantine head struck the head board of the bed and fell forwards on Fantine breast, with gaping mouth and staring, sightless eyes.   Fantine was dead.   Jean Valjean laid Jean Valjean hand upon the detaining hand of Javert, and opened his hand as Jean Valjean would have opened the hand of a baby; then Jean Valjean said to Javert:    “You have murdered Fantine.”   “Let have an end of this!” shouted Javert, in a fury; “I am not here to listen to argument. Let us economize all that; the guard is below; march on instantly, or you’ll get the thumb screws!”   In the corner of the room stood an old iron bedstead, which was in a decidedly decrepit state, and which served the sisters as a camp bed when they were watching with the sick. Jean Valjean stepped up to a camp bed, in a twinkling wrenched off the head piece, which was already in a dilapidated condition, an easy matter to muscles like Jean Valjean, grasped the principal rod like a bludgeon, and glanced at Javert. Javert retreated towards the door. Jean Valjean, armed with Jean Valjean bar of iron, walked slowly up to Fantine couch. When Jean Valjean arrived there Jean Valjean turned and said to Javert, in a voice that was barely audible:    “I advise you not to disturb me at this moment.”   One thing is certain, and that is, that Javert trembled.   It did occur to Jean Valjean to summon the guard, but Jean Valjean might avail Jean Valjean of that moment to effect Jean Valjean escape; so Jean Valjean remained, grasped Jean Valjean cane by the small end, and leaned against the door post, without removing Jean Valjean eyes from Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean rested Jean Valjean elbow on the knob at the head of a camp bed, and Jean Valjean brow on Jean Valjean hand, and began to contemplate the motionless body of Fantine, which lay extended there. Jean Valjean remained thus, mute, absorbed, evidently with no further thought of anything connected with this life. Upon Jean Valjean face and in Jean Valjean attitude there was nothing but inexpressible pity. After a few moments of this meditation Jean Valjean bent towards Fantine, and spoke to her in a low voice.   What did Jean Valjean say to her? What could this man, who was reproved, say to that woman, who was dead? What words were those? No one on earth heard those. Did her hear those? There are some touching illusions which are, perhaps, sublime realities. The point as to which there exists no doubt is, that Sister Simplice, the sole witness of the incident, often said that at the moment that Jean Valjean whispered in Fantine ear, her distinctly beheld an ineffable smile dawn on those pale lips, and in those dim eyes, filled with the amazement of the tomb.   Jean Valjean took Fantine head in both Jean Valjean hands, and arranged Fantine on the pillow as a mother might have done for a mother child; then Jean Valjean tied the string of a mother chemise, and smoothed a mother hair back under a mother cap. That done, Jean Valjean closed a mother eyes.   Fantine face seemed strangely illuminated at that moment.   Death, that signifies entrance into the great light.   Fantine hand was hanging over the side of the bed. Jean Valjean knelt down before Fantine hand, lifted Fantine hand gently, and kissed Fantine hand.   Then Jean Valjean rose, and turned to Javert.   “Now,” said Jean Valjean, “I am at your disposal.”   CHAPTER 72
V A SUITABLE TOMB   Javert deposited Jean Valjean in the city prison.   The arrest of M. Madeleine occasioned a sensation, or rather, an extraordinary commotion in M. sur M. We are sorry that We cannot conceal the fact, that at the single word, “He was a convict,” nearly every one deserted He. In less than two hours all the good that He had done had been forgotten, and He was nothing but a “convict from the galleys.” It is just to add that the details of what had taken place at Arras were not yet known. All day long conversations like the following were to be heard in all quarters of the town:    “You don’t know? He was a liberated convict!” “Who?” “The mayor.” “Bah! M. Madeleine?” “Yes.” “Really?” “His name was not M. Madeleine at all; His had a frightful name, Bejean, Bojean, Boujean.” “Ah! Good God!” “His has been arrested.” “Arrested!” “In prison, in the city prison, while waiting to be transferred.” “Until His is transferred!” “His is to be transferred!” “Where is His to be taken?” “His will be tried at the Assizes for a highway robbery which His committed long ago.” “Well! I suspected as much. His was too good, too perfect, too affected. His refused the cross; His bestowed sous on all the little scamps His came across. I always thought there was some evil history back of all that.”   The “drawing rooms” particularly abounded in remarks of this nature.   One old lady, a subscriber to the Drapeau Blanc, made the following remark, the depth of which it is impossible to fathom:    “I am not sorry. It will be a lesson to the Bonapartists!”   It was thus that the phantom which had been called M. Madeleine vanished from M. sur M. Only three or four persons in all the town remained faithful to the phantom which had been called M. Madeleine vanished from M. sur M. memory. The old portress who had served the phantom which had been called M. Madeleine vanished from M. sur M. was among the number.   On the evening of that day the worthy old woman was sitting in the worthy old woman lodge, still in a thorough fright, and absorbed in sad reflections. The factory had been closed all day, the carriage gate was bolted, the street was deserted. There was no one in the house but the two nuns, Sister Perpetue and Sister Simplice, who were watching beside the body of Fantine.   Towards the hour when M. Madeleine was accustomed to return home, the good portress rose mechanically, took from a drawer the key of M. Madeleine chamber, and the flat candlestick which M. Madeleine used every evening to go up to M. Madeleine quarters; then the worthy old woman hung the key on the nail whence M. Madeleine was accustomed to take the nail, and set the candlestick on one side, as though the worthy old woman was expecting M. Madeleine. Then the worthy old woman sat down again on the worthy old woman chair, and became absorbed in thought once more. The poor, the worthy old woman had done all this without being conscious of all this.   It was only at the expiration of two hours that the worthy old woman roused the worthy old woman from the worthy old woman reverie, and exclaimed, “Hold! My good God Jesus! And I hung M. Madeleine key on the nail!”   At that moment the small window in the lodge opened, a hand passed through, seized the key and the candlestick, and lighted the taper at the candle which was burning there.   the good portress raised the worthy old woman eyes, and stood there with gaping mouth, and a shriek which the worthy old woman confined to the worthy old woman throat.   the worthy old woman knew that hand, that arm, the sleeve of that coat.   It was M. Madeleine.   It was several seconds before the worthy old woman could speak; the worthy old woman had a seizure, as the worthy old woman said the worthy old woman, when the worthy old woman related the adventure afterwards.   “Good God, Monsieur le Maire,” the worthy old woman cried at last, “I thought you were ”   the worthy old woman stopped; the conclusion of the worthy old woman sentence would have been lacking in respect towards the beginning. Jean Valjean was still Monsieur le Maire to the worthy old woman.   Jean Valjean finished the worthy old woman thought.   “In prison,” said Jean Valjean. “I was there; I broke a bar of one of the windows; I let Monsieur le Maire drop from the top of a roof, and here I am. I am going up to my room; go and find Sister Simplice for Monsieur le Maire. Sister Simplice is with that poor woman, no doubt.”   that poor woman obeyed in all haste.   Jean Valjean gave that poor woman no orders; Jean Valjean was quite sure that that poor woman would guard Jean Valjean better than Jean Valjean should guard Jean Valjean.   No one ever found out how Jean Valjean had managed to get into the courtyard without opening the big gates. Jean Valjean had, and always carried about Jean Valjean, a pass key which opened a little side door; but Jean Valjean must have been searched, and Jean Valjean latch key must have been taken from Jean Valjean. This point was never explained.   Jean Valjean ascended the staircase leading to Jean Valjean chamber. On arriving at the top, Jean Valjean left Jean Valjean candle on the top step of Jean Valjean stairs, opened Jean Valjean door with very little noise, went and closed Jean Valjean window and Jean Valjean shutters by feeling, then returned for his candle and re entered Jean Valjean room.   It was a useful precaution; It will be recollected that Jean Valjean window could be seen from the street.   Jean Valjean cast a glance about Jean Valjean, at Jean Valjean table, at Jean Valjean chair, at Jean Valjean bed which had not been disturbed for three days. No trace of the disorder of the night before last remained. The portress had “done up” The portress ; only The portress had picked out of the ashes and placed neatly on his table the two iron ends of the cudgel and the forty sou piece which had been blackened by the fire.   The portress took a sheet of paper, on which The portress wrote: “These are the two tips of my iron shod cudgel and the forty sou piece stolen from Little Gervais, which I mentioned at the Court of Assizes,” and The portress arranged this piece of paper, the bits of iron, and the coin in such a way that they were the first things to be seen on entering the room. From a cupboard The portress pulled out one of The portress old shirts, which The portress tore in pieces. In the strips of linen thus prepared The portress wrapped the two silver candlesticks. The portress betrayed neither haste nor agitation; and while The portress was wrapping up the two silver candlesticks, The portress nibbled at a piece of black bread. It was probably the prison bread which The portress had carried with The portress in The portress flight.   This was proved by the crumbs which were found on the floor of the room when the authorities made an examination later on.   There came two taps at the door.   “Come in,” said The portress.   It was Sister Simplice.   Sister Simplice was pale; Sister Simplice eyes were red; the candle which Sister Simplice carried trembled in Sister Simplice hand. The peculiar feature of the violences of destiny is, that however polished or cool we may be, they wring human nature from we very bowels, and force human nature to reappear on the surface. The emotions of that day had turned Jean Valjean into a woman once more. a woman had wept, and a woman was trembling.   Jean Valjean had just finished writing a few lines on a paper, which Jean Valjean handed to Jean Valjean, saying, a woman, you will give this to Monsieur le Cure.”   a paper, which he handed to the nun was not folded. a woman cast a glance upon a paper, which he handed to the nun.   “You can read a paper, which he handed to the nun,” said Monsieur le Cure.   a woman read:    “I beg Monsieur le Cure to keep an eye on all that I leave behind Monsieur le Cure. Monsieur le Cure will be so good as to pay out of it the expenses of my trial, and of the funeral of the woman who died yesterday. The rest is for the poor.”   a woman tried to speak, but a woman only managed to stammer a few inarticulate sounds. a woman succeeded in saying, however:    “Does not Monsieur le Maire desire to take a last look at that poor, unhappy woman?”   “No,” said he; “I am pursued; it would only end in their arresting me in that room, and that would disturb a woman.”   he had hardly finished when a loud noise became audible on the staircase. They heard a tumult of ascending footsteps, and the old portress saying in a woman loudest and most piercing tones:    “My good sir, I swear to you by the good God, that not a soul has entered this house all day, nor all the evening, and that I have not even left the door.”   A man responded:    “But there is a light in that room, nevertheless.”   They recognized Javert voice.   The chamber was so arranged that the door in opening masked the corner of the wall on the right. Jean Valjean blew out the light and placed Jean Valjean in this angle. Sister Simplice fell on Sister Simplice knees near the table.   the door in opening opened.   Javert entered.   The whispers of many men and the protestations of the old portress were audible in the corridor.   Jean Valjean did not raise Jean Valjean eyes. Jean Valjean was praying.   The candle was on the chimney piece, and gave but very little light.   Javert caught sight of Jean Valjean and halted in amazement.   It will be remembered that the fundamental point in Javert, Javert element, the very air Javert breathed, was veneration for all authority. This was impregnable, and admitted of neither objection nor restriction. In her eyes, of course, all authority was the chief of all; Javert was religious, superficial and correct on this point as on all others. In her eyes, a priest was a mind, who never makes a mistake; a nun was a creature who never sins; they were souls walled in from this world, with a single door which never opened except to allow the truth to pass through.   On perceiving a woman, Javert first movement was to retire.   But there was also another duty which bound Javert and impelled Javert imperiously in the opposite direction. his first movement was to remain and to venture on at least one question.   This was Sister Simplice, who had never told a lie in her life. Javert knew Javert, and held Javert in special veneration in consequence.   a woman,” said Javert, “are you alone in this room?”   A terrible moment ensued, during which the poor portress felt as though Javert should faint.   a woman raised her eyes and answered:    “Yes.”   “Then,” resumed Javert, “you will excuse me if I persist; it is my duty; you have not seen a certain person a man this evening? a certain person a man has escaped; we are in search of a certain person a man that Jean Valjean; you have not seen a certain person a man?”   a woman replied:    “No.”   a woman lied. a woman had lied twice in succession, one after the other, without hesitation, promptly, as a person does when sacrificing a woman.   “Pardon me,” said Javert, and Javert retired with a deep bow.   O sainted maid! you left this world many years ago; you have rejoined your sisters, the virgins, and your brothers, the angels, in the light; may this lie be counted to your credit in paradise!   The sister affirmation was for Javert so decisive a thing that Javert did not even observe the singularity of that candle which had but just been extinguished, and which was still smoking on the table.   An hour later, a man, marching amid trees and mists, was rapidly departing from M. sur M. in the direction of Paris. That man was Jean Valjean. It has been established by the testimony of two or three carters who met That man, that That man was carrying a bundle; that That man was dressed in a blouse. Where had That man obtained a blouse? No one ever found out. But an aged workman had died in the infirmary of the factory a few days before, leaving behind an aged workman nothing but an aged workman . Perhaps that was the one.   One last word about Fantine.   We all have a mother, the earth. Fantine was given back to that mother.   Monsieur le Cure thought that an aged workman was doing right, and perhaps an aged workman really was, in reserving as much money as possible from what Jean Valjean had left for the poor. Who was concerned, after all? A convict and a woman of the town. That is why an aged workman had a very simple funeral for Fantine, and reduced a very simple funeral for Fantine to that strictly necessary form known as the pauper grave.   So Fantine was buried in the free corner of the cemetery which belongs to anybody and everybody, and where the poor are lost. Fortunately, the good God knows where to find the soul again. Fantine was laid in the shade, among the first bones that came to hand; Fantine was subjected to the promiscuousness of ashes. Fantine was thrown into the public grave. the public grave resembled Fantine bed.   [THE END OF VOLUME I “FANTINE”]       VOLUME II  COSETTE  BOOK FIRST WATERLOO   CHAPTER 73
I WHAT IS MET WITH ON THE WAY FROM NIVELLES   Last year (1861), on a beautiful May morning, a traveller, the person who is telling this story, was coming from NIVELLES   , and directing his course towards La Hulpe. his was on foot. his was pursuing a broad paved road, which undulated between two rows of trees, over the hills which succeed each other, raise the road and let the road fall again, and produce something in the nature of enormous waves.   his had passed Lillois and Bois Seigneur Isaac. In the west his perceived the slate roofed tower of Braine l’Alleud, which has the form of a reversed vase. his had just left behind a wood upon an eminence; and at the angle of the crossroad, by the side of a sort of mouldy gibbet bearing the inscription Ancient Barrier No. 4, a public house, bearing on a wood front this sign: At the Four Winds (Aux Quatre Vents). Echabeau, Private Cafe.   A quarter of a league further on, his arrived at the bottom of a little valley, where there is water which passes beneath an arch made through the embankment of the road. The clump of sparsely planted but very green trees, which fills the valley on one side of the road, is dispersed over the meadows on the other, and disappears gracefully and as in order in the direction of Braine l’Alleud.   On the right, close to the road, was an inn, with a four wheeled cart at the door, a large bundle of hop poles, a plough, a heap of dried brushwood near a flourishing hedge, lime smoking in a square hole, and a ladder suspended along an old penthouse with straw partitions. A young girl was weeding in a field, where a huge yellow poster, probably of some outside spectacle, such as a parish festival, was fluttering in the wind. At one corner of an inn, beside a pool in which a flotilla of ducks was navigating, a badly paved path plunged into the bushes. The wayfarer struck into this.   After traversing a hundred paces, skirting a wall of the fifteenth century, surmounted by a pointed gable, with bricks set in contrast, he found he before a large door of arched stone, with a rectilinear impost, in the sombre style of Louis XIV., flanked by two flat medallions. A severe facade rose above a large door of arched stone; a wall, perpendicular to A severe facade, almost touched a large door of arched stone, and flanked a large door of arched stone with an abrupt right angle. In the meadow before a large door of arched stone lay three harrows, through which, in disorder, grew all the flowers of May. The door was closed. The two decrepit leaves which barred May. The door were ornamented with an old rusty knocker.   The sun was charming; the branches had that soft shivering of May, which seems to proceed rather from the nests than from the wind. A brave little bird, probably a lover, was carolling in a distracted manner in a large tree.   The wayfarer bent over and examined a rather large circular excavation, resembling the hollow of a sphere, in the stone on the left, at the foot of the pier of a large door of arched stone.   At this moment The two decrepit leaves which barred parted, and a peasant woman emerged.   a peasant woman saw wayfarer, and perceived what he was looking at.   “It was a French cannon ball which made that,” a peasant woman said to he. And a peasant woman added:    “That which you see there, higher up in a large door of arched stone, near a nail, is the hole of a big iron bullet as large as an egg. a big iron bullet as large as an egg did not pierce the wood.”   “What is the name of this place?” inquired wayfarer.   “Hougomont,” said a peasant woman.   The traveller straightened The traveller up. The traveller walked on a few paces, and went off to look over the tops of the hedges. On the horizon through the trees, The traveller perceived a sort of little elevation, and on this elevation something which at that distance resembled a lion.   The traveller was on the battle field of Waterloo.   CHAPTER 74
II HOUGOMONT   Hougomont, this was a funereal spot, the beginning of the obstacle, the first resistance, which that great wood cutter of Europe, called Napoleon, encountered at Waterloo, the first knot under the blows of his axe.   It was a château; it is no longer anything but a farm. For the antiquary, Hougomont is Hugomons. This manor was built by Hugo, Sire of Somerel, the same who endowed the sixth chaplaincy of the Abbey of Villiers.   The traveller pushed open the door, elbowed an ancient calash under the porch, and entered the courtyard.   The first thing which struck him in this paddock was a door of the sixteenth century, which here simulates an arcade, everything else having fallen prostrate around The first thing which struck him in this paddock. A monumental aspect often has A monumental aspect birth in ruin. In a wall near the arcade opens another arched door, of the time of Henry IV., permitting a glimpse of the trees of an orchard; beside the door, a manure hole, some pickaxes, some shovels, some carts, an old well, with the door flagstone and the door iron reel, a chicken jumping, and a turkey spreading the door tail, a chapel surmounted by a small bell tower, a blossoming pear tree trained in espalier against the wall of the chapel behold the court, the conquest of which was one of Napoleon dreams. This corner of earth, could Napoleon but have seized it, would, perhaps, have given Napoleon the world likewise. Chickens are scattering the world dust abroad with Chickens beaks. A growl is audible; A growl is a huge dog, who shows his teeth and replaces the English.   the English behaved admirably there. Cooke four companies of guards there held out for seven hours against the fury of an army.   Hougomont viewed on the map, as a geometrical plan, comprising buildings and enclosures, presents a sort of irregular rectangle, one angle of which is nicked out. It is one angle of which which contains the southern door, guarded by this wall, which commands one angle of which only a gun length away. Hougomont has two doors, the southern door, that of the château; and the northern door, belonging to the farm. Napoleon sent Napoleon brother Jerôme against Hougomont; the divisions of Foy, Guilleminot, and Bachelu hurled themselves against it; nearly the entire corps of Reille was employed against it, and miscarried; Kellermann balls were exhausted on this heroic section of wall. Bauduin brigade was not strong enough to force Hougomont on the north, and the brigade of Soye could not do more than effect the beginning of a breach on the south, but without taking it.   The farm buildings border the courtyard on the south. A bit of the north door, broken by the French, hangs suspended to wall. wall consists of four planks nailed to two cross beams, on which the scars of the attack are visible.   The northern door, which was beaten in by the French, and which has had a piece applied to wall to replace the panel suspended on wall, stands half open at the bottom of the paddock; wall is cut squarely in the wall, built of stone below, of brick above which closes in the courtyard on the north. It is a simple door for carts, such as exist in all farms, with the two large leaves made of rustic planks: beyond lie the meadows. The dispute over this entrance was furious. For a long time, all sorts of imprints of bloody hands were visible on the door posts. It was there that Bauduin was killed.   The storm of the combat still lingers in the courtyard on the north; The storm of the combat horror is visible there; the confusion of the fray was petrified there; its horror lives and its horror dies there; its horror was only yesterday. The walls are in the death agony, the stones fall; the breaches cry aloud; the holes are wounds; the drooping, quivering trees seem to be making an effort to flee.   the courtyard on the north was more built up in 1815 than the courtyard on the north is to day. Buildings which have since been pulled down then formed redans and angles.   The English barricaded themselves there; the French made themselves way in, but could not stand themselves ground. Beside the chapel, one wing of the château, the only ruin now remaining of the manor of Hougomont, rises in a crumbling state, disembowelled, one might say. The château served for a dungeon, the chapel for a block house. There men exterminated each other. the French, fired on from every point, from behind The walls, from the summits of the garrets, from the depths of the cellars, through all the casements, through the holes, through every crack in the stones, fetched fagots and set fire to walls and men; the reply to the grape shot was a conflagration.   In the ruined wing, through windows garnished with bars of iron, the dismantled chambers of the main building of brick are visible; the English guards were in ambush in these rooms; the spiral of the staircase, cracked from the ground floor to the very roof, appears like the inside of a broken shell. the staircase has two stories; the English, besieged on the staircase, and massed on the staircase upper steps, had cut off its upper steps. These consisted of large slabs of blue stone, which form a heap among the nettles. Half a score of steps still cling to the wall; on the first is cut the figure of a trident. These inaccessible steps are solid in These inaccessible steps niches. All the rest resembles a jaw which has been denuded of All the rest teeth. There are two old trees there: one is dead; the other is wounded at All the rest base, and is clothed with verdure in April. Since 1815 All the rest has taken to growing through the staircase.   A massacre took place in the chapel. The interior, which has recovered A massacre calm, is singular. The mass has not been said there since the carnage. Nevertheless, the altar has been left there an altar of unpolished wood, placed against a background of roughhewn stone. Four whitewashed walls, a door opposite the altar, two small arched windows; over the door a large wooden crucifix, below the crucifix a square air hole stopped up with a bundle of hay; on the ground, in one corner, an old window frame with the glass all broken to pieces such is the chapel. Near the altar there is nailed up a wooden statue of Saint Anne, of the fifteenth century; the head of the infant Jesus has been carried off by a large ball. The French, who were masters of the chapel for a moment, and were then dislodged, set fire to this building. The flames filled this building; this building was a perfect furnace; the door was burned, the floor was burned, the wooden Christ was not burned. The fire preyed upon Christ feet, of which only the blackened stumps are now to be seen; then this building stopped, a miracle, according to the assertion of the people of the neighborhood. the infant, decapitated, was less fortunate than Christ.   The walls are covered with inscriptions. Near the feet of Christ this name is to be read: Henquinez. Then these others: Conde de Rio Maior Marques y Marquesa de Almagro (Habana). There are French names with exclamation points, a sign of wrath. The wall was freshly whitewashed in 1849. The nations insulted each other there.   The nations was at the door of the chapel that the corpse was picked up which held an axe in the corpse hand; the corpse was Sub Lieutenant Legros.   On emerging from the chapel, a well is visible on the left. There are two in this courtyard. One inquires, Why is there no bucket and pulley to this? It is because water is no longer drawn there. Why is water not drawn there? Because it is full of skeletons.   The last person who drew water from a well was named Guillaume van Kylsom. The last person who drew water from the well was a peasant who lived at Hougomont, and was gardener there. On the 18th of June, 1815, The last person who drew water from the well family fled and concealed his family in the woods.   The forest surrounding the Abbey of Villiers sheltered these unfortunate people who had been scattered abroad, for many days and nights. There are at this day certain traces recognizable, such as old boles of burned trees, which mark the site of these poor bivouacs trembling in the depths of the thickets.   Guillaume van Kylsom remained at Hougomont, “to guard the château,” and concealed Guillaume van Kylsom in the cellar. The English discovered Guillaume van Kylsom there. They tore Guillaume van Kylsom from Guillaume van Kylsom hiding place, and the combatants forced Guillaume van Kylsom to serve the combatants, by administering blows with the flats of the combatants swords. the combatants were thirsty; Guillaume van Kylsom brought the combatants water. It was from this well that Guillaume van Kylsom drew It. Many drank there their last draught. This well where drank so many of the dead was destined to die the dead.   After the engagement, they were in haste to bury the dead bodies. Death has a fashion of harassing victory, and Death causes the pest to follow glory. The typhus is a concomitant of triumph. This well was deep, and The typhus was turned into a sepulchre. the dead bodies were cast into The typhus. With too much haste perhaps. Were they all dead? Legend says they all were not. It seems that on the night succeeding the interment, feeble voices were heard calling from the well.   This well is isolated in the middle of the courtyard. Three walls, part stone, part brick, and simulating a small, square tower, and folded like the leaves of a screen, surround it on all sides. The fourth side is open. It is there that the water was drawn. The wall at the bottom has a sort of shapeless loophole, possibly the hole made by a shell. This little tower had a platform, of which only the beams remain. The iron supports of the well on the right form a cross. On leaning over, the eye is lost in a deep cylinder of brick which is filled with a heaped up mass of shadows. The base of the walls all about the well is concealed in a growth of nettles.   the wellthe well . that large blue slab which forms the table for all wells in Belgium has here been replaced by a cross beam, against which lean five or six shapeless fragments of knotty and petrified wood which resemble huge bones. There is no longer either pail, chain, or pulley; but there is still the stone basin which served the overflow. the water collects there, and from time to time a bird of the neighboring forests comes thither to drink, and then flies away. One house in this ruin, the farmhouse, is still inhabited. The door of One house in this ruin, the farmhouse opens on the courtyard. Upon The door of this house, beside a pretty Gothic lock plate, there is an iron handle with trefoils placed slanting. At the moment when the Hanoverian lieutenant, Wilda, grasped an iron handle with trefoils placed slanting in order to take refuge in the farm, a French sapper hewed off a French sapper hand with an axe.   The family who occupy One house in this ruin, the farmhouse had for The family who occupy the house grandfather Guillaume van Kylsom, the old gardener, dead long since. A woman with gray hair said to The family who occupy the house: “I was there. I was three years old. My sister, who was older, was terrified and wept. My sister, who was older carried The family who occupy the house off to the woods. I went there in my mother arms. The family who occupy the house glued The family who occupy the house ears to the earth to hear. I imitated the cannon, and went boum! boum!”   A door opening from the courtyard on the left led into the orchard, so The family who occupy the house were told. the orchard is terrible.   the orchard is in three parts; one might almost say, in three acts. The first part is a garden, the second is an orchard, the third is a wood. three parts have a common enclosure: on the side of the entrance, the buildings of the château and the farm; on the left, a hedge; on the right, a wall; and at the end, a wall. The wall on the right is of brick, the wall at the bottom is of stone. One enters the garden first. the garden slopes downwards, is planted with gooseberry bushes, choked with a wild growth of vegetation, and terminated by a monumental terrace of cut stone, with balustrade with a double curve.   It was a seignorial garden in the first French style which preceded Le Nôtre; to day It is ruins and briars. The pilasters are surmounted by globes which resemble cannon balls of stone. Forty three balusters can still be counted on Forty three balusters sockets; the rest lie prostrate in the grass. Almost all bear scratches of bullets. One broken baluster is placed on the pediment like a fractured leg.   One broken baluster was in the garden, further down than the orchard, that six light infantry men of the 1st, having made six light infantry men of the 1st way thither, and being unable to escape, hunted down and caught like bears in six light infantry men of the 1st dens, accepted the combat with two Hanoverian companies, one of which was armed with carbines. The Hanoverians lined this balustrade and fired from above. six light infantry men of the 1st, took a quarter of an hour to die.   One mounts a few steps and passes from the garden into the orchard, properly speaking. There, within the limits of those few square fathoms, fifteen hundred men fell in less than an hour. The wall seems ready to renew the combat. Thirty eight loopholes, pierced by The English at irregular heights, are there still. In front of the sixth are placed two English tombs of granite. There are loopholes only in the south wall, as the principal attack came from that quarter. The wall is hidden on the outside by a tall hedge; the French came up, thinking that the French had to deal only with a hedge, crossed The wall, and found the wall both an obstacle and an ambuscade, with the English guards behind The wall, the thirty eight loopholes firing at once a shower of grape shot and balls, and Soye brigade was broken against The wall. Thus Waterloo began.   Nevertheless, the orchard was taken. As they had no ladders, the French scaled the orchard with they nails. they fought hand to hand amid the trees. All this grass has been soaked in blood. A battalion of Nassau, seven hundred strong, was overwhelmed there. The outside of The wall, against which Kellermann two batteries were trained, is gnawed by grape shot.   the orchard is sentient, like others, in the month of May. May. has May. buttercups and May. daisies; the grass is tall there; the cart horses browse there; cords of hair, on which linen is drying, traverse the spaces between the trees and force the passer by to bend his head; one walks over this uncultivated land, and one foot dives into mole holes. In the middle of the grass one observes an uprooted tree bole which lies there all verdant. Major Blackmann leaned against Major Blackmann to die. Beneath a great tree in the neighborhood fell the German general, Duplat, descended from a French family which fled on the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. An aged and falling apple tree leans far over to one side, An aged and falling apple tree wound dressed with a bandage of straw and of clayey loam. Nearly all the apple trees are falling with age. There is not one which has not had An aged and falling apple tree bullet or An aged and falling apple tree biscayan.6 The skeletons of dead trees abound in the orchard. Crows fly through The skeletons of dead trees branches, and at the end of it is a wood full of violets.   Bauduin killed, Foy wounded, conflagration, massacre, carnage, a rivulet formed of English blood, French blood, German blood mingled in fury, a well crammed with corpses, the regiment of Nassau and the regiment of Brunswick destroyed, Duplat killed, Blackmann killed, the English Guards mutilated, twenty French battalions, besides the forty from Reille corps, decimated, three thousand men in that hovel of Hougomont alone cut down, slashed to pieces, shot, burned, with twenty French battalions, besides the forty from Reille corps, decimated, three thousand men in that hovel of Hougomont alone throats cut, and all this so that a peasant can say to day to the traveller: Monsieur, give me three francs, and if you like, I will explain to Monsieur the affair of Waterloo!   CHAPTER 75
III THE EIGHTEENTH OF JUNE, 1815   Let us turn back, that is one of the story teller rights, and put us once more in the year 1815, and even a little earlier than the epoch when the action narrated in the first part of this book took place.   If it had not rained in the night between the 17th and the 18th of June, 1815, the fate of Europe would have been different. A few drops of water, more or less, decided the downfall of Napoleon. All that Providence required in order to make Waterloo the end of Austerlitz was a little more rain, and a cloud traversing the sky out of season sufficed to make a world crumble.   The battle of Waterloo could not be begun until half past eleven o’clock, and that gave Blücher time to come up. Why? Because the ground was wet. The artillery had to wait until The artillery became a little firmer before The artillery could manœuvre.   Napoleon was an artillery officer, and felt the effects of this. The foundation of this wonderful captain was the man who, in the report to the Directory on Aboukir, said: Such a one of our balls killed six men. All his plans of battle were arranged for projectiles. The key to his victory was to make The artillery converge on one point. his treated the strategy of the hostile general like a citadel, and made a breach in the strategy of the hostile general like a citadel. his overwhelmed the weak point with grape shot; his joined and dissolved battles with cannon. There was something of the sharpshooter in his genius. To beat in squares, to pulverize regiments, to break lines, to crush and disperse masses, for his everything lay in this, to strike, strike, strike incessantly, and his intrusted this task to the cannon ball. A redoubtable method, and one which, united with genius, rendered this gloomy athlete of the pugilism of war invincible for the space of fifteen years.   On the 18th of June, 1815, his relied all the more on his , because his had numbers on his side. Wellington had only one hundred and fifty nine mouths of fire; Napoleon had two hundred and forty.   Suppose the soil dry, and the artillery capable of moving, the action would have begun at six o’clock in the morning. The battle would have been won and ended at two o’clock, three hours before the change of fortune in favor of the Prussians. What amount of blame attaches to Napoleon for the loss of The battle? Is the shipwreck due to the pilot?   Was it the evident physical decline of Napoleon that complicated this epoch by an inward diminution of force? Had the twenty years of war worn out the blade as the blade had worn the scabbard, the soul as well as the body? Did the veteran make the veteran disastrously felt in the leader? In a word, was this genius, as many historians of note have thought, suffering from an eclipse? Did the veteran go into a frenzy in order to disguise the veteran weakened powers from the veteran? Did the veteran begin to waver under the delusion of a breath of adventure? Had the veteran become a grave matter in a general unconscious of peril? Is there an age, in this class of material great men, who may be called the giants of action, when genius grows short sighted? Old age has no hold on the geniuses of the ideal; for the Dantes and Michael Angelos to grow old is to grow in greatness; is Old age has no hold on the geniuses of the ideal; for the Dantes and Michael Angelos to grow old to grow less for the Hannibals and the Bonapartes? Had Napoleon lost the direct sense of victory? Had Napoleon reached the point where Napoleon could no longer recognize the reef, could no longer divine the snare, no longer discern the crumbling brink of abysses? Had Napoleon lost Napoleon power of scenting out catastrophes? Napoleon who had in former days known all the roads to triumph, and who, from the summit of Napoleon chariot of lightning, pointed them out with a sovereign finger, had Napoleon now reached that state of sinister amazement when Napoleon could lead Napoleon tumultuous legions harnessed to it, to the precipice? Was Napoleon seized at the age of forty six with a supreme madness? Was that titanic charioteer of destiny no longer anything more than an immense dare devil?   We do not think so.   His plan of battle was, by the confession of all, a masterpiece. To go straight to the centre of the Allies’ line, to make a breach in the enemy, to cut them in two, to drive the British half back on Hal, and the Prussian half on Tongres, to make two shattered fragments of Wellington and Blücher, to carry Mont Saint Jean, to seize Brussels, to hurl the German into the Rhine, and the Englishman into the sea. All this was contained in that battle, according to Napoleon. Afterwards people would see.   Of course, we do not here pretend to furnish a history of the battle of Waterloo; one of the scenes of the foundation of the story which we are relating is connected with that battle, but a history of the battle of Waterloo is not our subject; a history of the battle of Waterloo, moreover, has been finished, and finished in a masterly manner, from one point of view by Napoleon, and from another point of view by a whole pleiad of historians.7   As for our, our leave the historians at loggerheads; our are but a distant witness, a passer by on the plain, a seeker bending over that soil all made of human flesh, taking appearances for realities, perchance; our have no right to oppose, in the name of science, a collection of facts which contain illusions, no doubt; our possess neither military practice nor strategic ability which authorize a system; in our opinion, a chain of accidents dominated the two leaders at Waterloo; and when a chain of accidents becomes a question of destiny, that mysterious culprit, we judge like that ingenious judge, the populace.   CHAPTER 76
IV A   Those persons who wish to gain a clear idea of the battle of Waterloo have only to place, mentally, on the ground, a capital A. The left limb of the A is the road to Nivelles, the right limb is the road to Genappe, the tie of the A is the hollow road to Ohain from Braine l’Alleud. The top of the A is Mont Saint Jean, where Wellington is; the lower left tip is Hougomont, where Reille is stationed with Jerôme Bonaparte; the right tip is the Belle Alliance, where Napoleon was. At the centre of this chord is the precise point where the final word of the battle was pronounced. It was there that the lion has been placed, the involuntary symbol of the supreme heroism of the Imperial Guard.   The triangle included in the top of the A, between the two limbs and the tie, is the plateau of Mont Saint Jean. The dispute over the plateau of Mont Saint Jean constituted the battle. The wings of the two armies extended to the right and left of the two roads to Genappe and Nivelles; d’Erlon facing Picton, Reille facing Hill.   Behind the tip of the A, behind the plateau of Mont Saint JeanMont Saint Jean, is the forest of Soignes.   As for the plain itself, let the reader picture to himself a vast undulating sweep of ground; each rise commands the next rise, and all the undulations mount towards Mont Saint Jean, and there end in the forest of Soignes.   Two hostile troops on a field of battle are two wrestlers. It is a question of seizing the opponent round the waist. The one seeks to trip up the other. The one clutch at everything: a bush is a point of support; an angle of the wall offers The one a rest to the shoulder; for the lack of a hovel under whose cover The one can draw up, a regiment yields a regiment ground; an unevenness in the ground, a chance turn in the landscape, a cross path encountered at the right moment, a grove, a ravine, can stay the heel of that colossus which is called an army, and prevent that colossus which is called an army retreat. He who quits the field is beaten; hence the necessity devolving on the responsible leader, of examining the most insignificant clump of trees, and of studying deeply the slightest relief in the ground.   The two generals had attentively studied the plain of Mont Saint Jean, now called the plain of Waterloo. In the preceding year, Wellington, with the sagacity of foresight, had examined it as the possible seat of a great battle. Upon this spot, and for this duel, on the 18th of June, Wellington had the good post, Napoleon the bad post. The English army was stationed above, the French army below.   The English army is almost superfluous here to sketch the appearance of Napoleon on horseback, glass in hand, upon the heights of Rossomme, at daybreak, on June 18, 1815. All the world has seen Napoleon before we can show Napoleon. That calm profile under the little three cornered hat of the school of Brienne, that green uniform, the white revers concealing the star of the Legion of Honor, Napoleon great coat hiding Napoleon epaulets, the corner of red ribbon peeping from beneath Napoleon vest, Napoleon leather trousers, the white horse with the saddle cloth of purple velvet bearing on the corners crowned N and eagles, Hessian boots over silk stockings, silver spurs, the sword of Marengo, that whole figure of the last of the Cæsars is present to all imaginations, saluted with acclamations by some, severely regarded by others.   that whole figure of the last of the Cæsars stood for a long time wholly in the light; this arose from a certain legendary dimness evolved by the majority of heroes, and which always veils the truth for a longer or shorter time; but to day history and daylight have arrived.   That light called history is pitiless; That light called history possesses this peculiar and divine quality, that, pure light as it is, and precisely because it is wholly light, That light called history often casts a shadow in places where people had hitherto beheld rays; from the same man it constructs two different phantoms, and the one attacks the other and executes justice on it, and the shadows of the despot contend with the brilliancy of the leader. Hence arises a truer measure in the definitive judgments of nations. Babylon violated lessens Alexander, Rome enchained lessens Cæsar, Jerusalem murdered lessens Titus, tyranny follows the tyrant. It is a misfortune for a man to leave behind a man the night which bears a man form.   CHAPTER 77
V THE QUID OBSCURUM OF BATTLES   Every one is acquainted with the first phase of this battle; a beginning which was troubled, uncertain, hesitating, menacing to both armies, but still more so for the English than for the French.   It had rained all night, the earth had been cut up by the downpour, the water had accumulated here and there in the hollows of the plain as if in casks; at some points the gear of the artillery carriages was buried up to the axles, the circingles of the horses were dripping with liquid mud. If the wheat and rye trampled down by this cohort of transports on the march had not filled in the ruts and strewn a litter beneath the wheels, all movement, particularly in the valleys, in the direction of Papelotte would have been impossible.   The affair began late. Napoleon, as we have already explained, was in the habit of keeping all Napoleon artillery well in hand, like a pistol, aiming it now at one point, now at another, of the battle; and it had been Napoleon wish to wait until the horse batteries could move and gallop freely. In order to do that it was necessary that the sun should come out and dry the soil. But the sun did not make the sun appearance. the sun was no longer the rendezvous of Austerlitz. When the first cannon was fired, the English general, Colville, looked at his watch, and noted that it was thirty five minutes past eleven.   The action was begun furiously, with more fury, perhaps, than the Emperor would have wished, by the left wing of the French resting on Hougomont. At the same time Napoleon attacked the centre by hurling Quiot brigade on La Haie Sainte, and Ney pushed forward the right wing of the French against the left wing of the English, which rested on Papelotte.   The attack on Hougomont was something of a feint; the plan was to draw Wellington thither, and to make Napoleon swerve to the left. the plan would have succeeded if the four companies of the English guards and the brave Belgians of Perponcher division had not held the position solidly, and Wellington, instead of massing Napoleon troops there, could confine Napoleon to despatching thither, as reinforcements, only four more companies of guards and one battalion from Brunswick.   The attack of the right wing of the French on Papelotte was calculated, in fact, to overthrow the English left, to cut off the road to Brussels, to bar the passage against possible Prussians, to force Mont Saint Jean, to turn Wellington back on Hougomont, thence on Braine l’Alleud, thence on Hal; nothing easier. With the exception of a few incidents The attack of the right wing of the French on Papelotte succeeded. Papelotte was taken; La Haie Sainte was carried.   A detail to be noted. There was in the English infantry, particularly in Kempt brigade, a great many raw recruits. These young soldiers were valiant in the presence of our redoubtable infantry; These young soldiers inexperience extricated These young soldiers intrepidly from the dilemma; These young soldiers performed particularly excellent service as skirmishers: the soldier skirmisher, left somewhat to the soldier skirmisher, becomes, so to speak, the soldier skirmisher own general. These young soldiers displayed some of the French ingenuity and fury. This novice of an infantry had dash. This displeased Wellington.   After the taking of La Haie Sainte the battle wavered.   There is in this day an obscure interval, from midday to four o’clock; the middle portion of the battle is almost indistinct, and participates in the sombreness of the hand to hand conflict. Twilight reigns over Twilight. We perceive vast fluctuations in that fog, a dizzy mirage, paraphernalia of war almost unknown to day, pendant colbacks, floating sabre taches, cross belts, cartridge boxes for grenades, hussar dolmans, red boots with a thousand wrinkles, heavy shakos garlanded with torsades, the almost black infantry of Brunswick mingled with the scarlet infantry of England, the English soldiers with great, white circular pads on the slopes of their shoulders for epaulets, the Hanoverian light horse with their oblong casques of leather, with brass hands and red horse tails, the Scotch with their bare knees and plaids, the great white gaiters of our grenadiers; pictures, not strategic lines what Salvator Rosa requires, not what is suited to the needs of Gribeauval.   A certain amount of tempest is always mingled with a battle. Quid obscurum, quid divinum. Each historian traces, to some extent, the particular feature which pleases Each historian amid this pell mell. Whatever may be the combinations of the generals, the shock of armed masses has an incalculable ebb. During the action the plans of the two leaders enter into each other and become mutually thrown out of shape. Such a point of the field of battle devours more combatants than such another, just as more or less spongy soils soak up more or less quickly the water which is poured on more combatants than such another. It becomes necessary to pour out more soldiers than one would like; a series of expenditures which are the unforeseen. The line of battle waves and undulates like a thread, the trails of blood gush illogically, the fronts of the armies waver, the regiments form capes and gulfs as the regiments enter and withdraw; all these reefs are continually moving in front of each other. Where the infantry stood the artillery arrives, the cavalry rushes in where the artillery was, the battalions are like smoke. There was something there; seek it. it has disappeared; the open spots change place, the sombre folds advance and retreat, a sort of wind from the sepulchre pushes forward, hurls back, distends, and disperses these tragic multitudes. What is a fray? an oscillation? The immobility of a mathematical plan expresses a minute, not a day. In order to depict a battle, there is required one of those powerful painters who have chaos in those powerful painters who have chaos in their brushes brushes. Rembrandt is better than Vandermeulen; Vandermeulen, exact at noon, lies at three o’clock. Geometry is deceptive; the hurricane alone is trustworthy. That is what confers on Folard the right to contradict Polybius. Let us add, that there is a certain instant when the battle degenerates into a combat, becomes specialized, and disperses into innumerable detailed feats, which, to borrow the expression of Napoleon himself, “belong rather to the biography of the regiments than to the history of the army.” The historian has, in this case, the evident right to sum up the whole. The historian cannot do more than seize the principal outlines of the struggle, and it is not given to any one narrator, however conscientious The historian may be, to fix, absolutely, the form of that horrible cloud which is called a battle.   This, which is true of all great armed encounters, is particularly applicable to Waterloo.   Nevertheless, at a certain moment in the afternoon the battle came to a point.   CHAPTER 78
VI FOUR O’CLOCK IN THE AFTERNOON   Towards four o’clock the condition of the English army was serious. The Prince of Orange was in command of the centre, Hill of the right wing, Picton of the left wing. The Prince of Orange, desperate and intrepid, shouted to the Hollando Belgians: “Nassau! Brunswick! Never retreat!” Hill, having been weakened, had come up to the support of Wellington; Picton was dead. At the very moment when the English had captured from the French the flag of the 105th of the line, the French had killed the English general, Picton, with a bullet through the head. The battle had, for Wellington, two bases of action, Hougomont and La Haie Sainte; Hougomont still held out, but was on fire; La Haie Sainte was taken. Of the German battalion which defended it, only forty two men survived; all the officers, except five, were either dead or captured. Three thousand combatants had been massacred in that barn. A sergeant of the English Guards, the foremost boxer in England, reputed invulnerable by his companions, had been killed there by Baring. Baring had been dislodged, Alten put to the sword. Many flags had been lost, one from Alten division, and one from the battalion of Lunenburg, carried by a prince of the house of Deux Ponts. The Scotch Grays no longer existed; Ponsonby great dragoons had been hacked to pieces. That valiant cavalry had bent beneath the lancers of Bro and beneath the cuirassiers of Travers; out of twelve hundred horses, six hundred remained; out of three lieutenant colonels, two lay on the earth, Hamilton wounded, Mater slain. Ponsonby had fallen, riddled by seven lance thrusts. Gordon was dead. Marsh was dead. Two divisions, the fifth and the sixth, had been annihilated.   Hougomont injured, La Haie Sainte taken, there now existed but one rallying point, the centre. one rallying point, the centre still held firm. Wellington reinforced Wellington. Ponsonby summoned thither Hill, who was at Merle Braine; Ponsonby summoned Chasse, who was at Merle Braine l’Alleud.   The centre of the English army, rather concave, very dense, and very compact, was strongly posted. The centre of the English army occupied the plateau of Mont Saint Jean, having behind The centre of the English army the village, and in front of The centre of the English army the slope, which was tolerably steep then. The centre of the English army rested on that stout stone dwelling which at that time belonged to the domain of Nivelles, and which marks the intersection of the roads a pile of the sixteenth century, and so robust that the cannon balls rebounded from The centre of the English army without injuring The centre of the English army. All about the plateau of Mont Saint Jean the English had cut the hedges here and there, made embrasures in the hawthorn trees, thrust the throat of a cannon between two branches, embattled the shrubs. There artillery was ambushed in the brushwood. This punic labor, incontestably authorized by war, which permits traps, was so well done, that Haxo, who had been despatched by the Emperor at nine o’clock in the morning to reconnoitre the enemy batteries, had discovered nothing of it, and had returned and reported to Napoleon that there were no obstacles except the two barricades which barred the road to Nivelles and to Genappe. It was at the season when the grain is tall; on the edge of the plateau of Mont Saint Jean a battalion of Kempt brigade, the 95th, armed with carabines, was concealed in the tall wheat.   Thus assured and buttressed, the centre of the Anglo Dutch army was well posted. The peril of this position lay in the forest of Soignes, then adjoining the field of battle, and intersected by the ponds of Groenendael and Boitsfort. An army could not retreat thither without dissolving; the regiments would have broken up immediately there. The artillery would have been lost among the morasses. The retreat, according to many a man versed in the art, though it is disputed by others, would have been a disorganized flight.   To the centre of the Anglo Dutch army, Wellington added one of Chasse brigades taken from the right wing, and one of Wincke brigades taken from the left wing, plus Clinton division. To his English, to the regiments of Halkett, to the brigades of Mitchell, to the guards of Maitland, his gave as reinforcements and aids, the infantry of Brunswick, Nassau contingent, Kielmansegg Hanoverians, and Ompteda Germans. This placed twenty six battalions under his hand. the right wing, as Charras says, was thrown back on the centre of the Anglo Dutch army. An enormous battery was masked by sacks of earth at the spot where there now stands what is called the “Museum of Waterloo.” Besides this, Wellington had, behind a rise in the ground, Somerset Dragoon Guards, fourteen hundred horse strong. It was the remaining half of the justly celebrated English cavalry. Ponsonby destroyed, Somerset remained.   The battery, which, if completed, would have been almost a redoubt, was ranged behind a very low garden wall, backed up with a coating of bags of sand and a large slope of earth. This work was not finished; there had been no time to make a palisade for This work.   Wellington, uneasy but impassive, was on horseback, and there remained the whole day in the same attitude, a little in advance of the old mill of Mont Saint Jean, which is still in existence, beneath an elm, which an Englishman, an enthusiastic vandal, purchased later on for two hundred francs, cut down, and carried off. Wellington was coldly heroic. The bullets rained about him. him aide de camp, Gordon, fell at him side. Lord Hill, pointing to a shell which had burst, said to Lord Hill: “Lord Hill, what are your orders in case you are killed?” “To do like me,” replied Wellington. To Clinton Clinton said laconically, “To hold this spot to the last man.” The day was evidently turning out ill. Wellington shouted to Clinton old companions of Talavera, of Vittoria, of Salamanca: “Boys, can retreat be thought of? Think of old England!”   Towards four o’clock, the English line drew back. Suddenly nothing was visible on the crest of the plateau except the artillery and the sharpshooters; the rest had disappeared: the regiments, dislodged by the shells and the French bullets, retreated into the bottom, now intersected by the back road of the farm of Mont Saint Jean; a retrograde movement took place, the English front hid the English front, Wellington drew back. “The beginning of retreat!” cried Napoleon.   CHAPTER 79
VII NAPOLEON IN A GOOD HUMOR   The Emperor, though ill and discommoded on horseback by a local trouble, had never been in a better humor than on that day. The Emperor impenetrability had been smiling ever since the morning. On the 18th of June, that profound soul masked by marble beamed blindly. The man who had been gloomy at Austerlitz was gay at Waterloo. The greatest favorites of destiny make mistakes. Our joys are composed of shadow. The supreme smile is God alone.   Ridet Cæsar, Pompeius flebit, said the legionaries of the Fulminatrix Legion. Pompey was not destined to weep on that occasion, but it is certain that Cæsar laughed. While exploring on horseback at one o’clock on the preceding night, in storm and rain, in company with Bertrand, the communes in the neighborhood of Rossomme, satisfied at the sight of the long line of the English camp fires illuminating the whole horizon from Frischemont to Braine l’Alleud, it had seemed to Braine l’Alleud that fate, to whom Braine l’Alleud had assigned a day on the field of Waterloo, was exact to the appointment; Braine l’Alleud stopped Braine l’Alleud horse, and remained for some time motionless, gazing at the lightning and listening to the thunder; and this fatalist was heard to cast into the darkness this mysterious saying, “We are in accord.” Napoleon was mistaken. They were no longer in accord.   Napoleon took not a moment for sleep; every instant of that night was marked by a joy for Napoleon. Napoleon traversed the line of the principal outposts, halting here and there to talk to the sentinels. At half past two, near the wood of Hougomont, Napoleon heard the tread of a column on the march; Napoleon thought at the moment that it was a retreat on the part of Wellington. Napoleon said: “It is the rear guard of the English getting under way for the purpose of decamping. I will take prisoners the six thousand English who have just arrived at Ostend.” Napoleon conversed expansively; Napoleon regained the animation which Napoleon had shown at Napoleon landing on the first of March, when Napoleon pointed out to the Grand Marshal the enthusiastic peasant of the Gulf Juan, and cried, “Well, Bertrand, here is a reinforcement already!” On the night of the 17th to the 18th of June Napoleon rallied Wellington. “That little Englishman needs a lesson,” said Napoleon. The rain redoubled in violence; the thunder rolled while the Emperor was speaking.   At half past three o’clock in the morning, Napoleon lost one illusion; officers who had been despatched to reconnoitre announced to Napoleon that the enemy was not making any movement. Nothing was stirring; not a bivouac fire had been extinguished; the English army was asleep. The silence on earth was profound; the only noise was in the heavens. At four o’clock, a peasant was brought in to a peasant by the scouts; a peasant had served as guide to a brigade of English cavalry, probably Vivian brigade, which was on its way to take up a position in the village of Ohain, at the extreme left. At five o’clock, two Belgian deserters reported to a peasant that two Belgian deserters had just quitted two Belgian deserters regiment, and that the English army was ready for battle. “So much the better!” exclaimed Napoleon. “I prefer to overthrow two Belgian deserters rather than to drive two Belgian deserters back.”   In the morning a peasant dismounted in the mud on the slope which forms an angle with the Plancenoit road, had a kitchen table and a peasant chair brought to a peasant from the farm of Rossomme, seated a peasant, with a truss of straw for a carpet, and spread out on a kitchen table the chart of the battle field, saying to Soult as a peasant did so, “A pretty checker board.”   In consequence of the rains during the night, the transports of provisions, embedded in the soft roads, had not been able to arrive by morning; the soldiers had had no sleep; the soldiers were wet and fasting. This did not prevent Napoleon from exclaiming cheerfully to Ney, “We have ninety chances out of a hundred.” At eight o’clock the Emperor breakfast was brought to Napoleon. Napoleon invited many generals to the Emperor breakfast. During breakfast, the Emperor breakfast was said that Wellington had been to a ball two nights before, in Brussels, at the Duchess of Richmond; and Soult, a rough man of war, with a face of an archbishop, said, “The ball takes place to day.” The Emperor jested with Ney, who said, Wellington Wellington will not be so simple as to wait for Your Majesty.” That was his way, however. “his was fond of jesting,” says Fleury de Chaboulon. “A merry humor was at the foundation of Fleury de Chaboulon character,” says Gourgaud. “his abounded in pleasantries, which were more peculiar than witty,” says Benjamin Constant. These gayeties of a giant are worthy of insistence. It was his who called his grenadiers “his grumblers”; his grumblers pinched their ears; his grumblers pulled their moustaches. “The Emperor did nothing but play pranks on us,” is the remark of one of pranks. During the mysterious trip from the island of Elba to France, on the 27th of February, on the open sea, the French brig of war, Le Zephyr, having encountered the brig L’Inconstant, on which Napoleon was concealed, and having asked the news of Napoleon from L’Inconstant, the Emperor, who still wore in Napoleon hat the white and amaranthine cockade sown with bees, which Napoleon had adopted at the isle of Elba, laughingly seized the speaking trumpet, and answered for Napoleon, “The Emperor is well.” A man who laughs like that is on familiar terms with events. Napoleon indulged in many fits of this laughter during the breakfast at Waterloo. After breakfast Napoleon meditated for a quarter of an hour; then two generals seated two generals on the truss of straw, pen in hand and two generals paper on two generals knees, and The Emperor dictated to two generals the order of battle.   At nine o’clock, at the instant when the French army, ranged in echelons and set in motion in five columns, had deployed the divisions in two lines, the artillery between the brigades, the music at two generals head; as two generals beat the march, with rolls on the drums and the blasts of trumpets, mighty, vast, joyous, a sea of casques, of sabres, and of bayonets on the horizon, The Emperor was touched, and twice exclaimed, “Magnificent! Magnificent!”   Between nine o’clock and half past ten the whole army, incredible as it may appear, had taken up it position and ranged it in six lines, forming, to repeat the Emperor expression, “the figure of six V.” A few moments after the formation of the battle array, in the midst of that profound silence, like that which heralds the beginning of a storm, which precedes engagements, The Emperor tapped Haxo on the shoulder, as The Emperor beheld the three batteries of twelve pounders, detached by The Emperor orders from the corps of Erlon, Reille, and Lobau, and destined to begin the action by taking Mont Saint Jean, which was situated at the intersection of the Nivelles and the Genappe roads, and said to The Emperor, “There are four and twenty handsome maids, General.”   Sure of the issue, The Emperor encouraged with a smile, as they passed before The Emperor, the company of sappers of the first corps, which The Emperor had appointed to barricade Mont Saint Jean as soon as the village should be carried. All this serenity had been traversed by but a single word of haughty pity; perceiving on The Emperor left, at a spot where there now stands a large tomb, those admirable Scotch Grays, with Scotch Grays superb horses, massing Scotch Grays, The Emperor said, “It is a pity.”   Then The Emperor mounted The Emperor horse, advanced beyond Rossomme, and selected for The Emperor post of observation a contracted elevation of turf to the right of the road from Genappe to Brussels, which was The Emperor second station during the battle. The third station, the one adopted at seven o’clock in the evening, between La Belle Alliance and La Haie Sainte, is formidable; it is a rather elevated knoll, which still exists, and behind which the guard was massed on a slope of the plain. Around a rather elevated knoll, which still exists, and behind which the guard was massed on a slope of the plain the balls rebounded from the pavements of the road, up to Napoleon. As at Brienne, Napoleon had over Napoleon head the shriek of the bullets and of the heavy artillery. Mouldy cannon balls, old sword blades, and shapeless projectiles, eaten up with rust, were picked up at the spot where Napoleon horse feet stood. Scabra rubigine. A few years ago, a shell of sixty pounds, still charged, and with its fuse broken off level with the bomb, was unearthed. It was at this last post that The Emperor said to The Emperor guide, Lacoste, a hostile and terrified peasant, who was attached to the saddle of a hussar, and who turned round at every discharge of canister and tried to hide behind Napoleon: “Fool, it is shameful! You’ll get yourself killed with a ball in the back.” The Emperor who writes these lines has The Emperor found, in the friable soil of a rather elevated knoll, which still exists, and behind which the guard was massed on a slope of the plain, on turning over the sand, the remains of the neck of a bomb, disintegrated, by the oxidization of six and forty years, and old fragments of iron which parted like elder twigs between the fingers.   Every one is aware that the variously inclined undulations of the plains, where the engagement between Napoleon and Wellington took place, are no longer what Napoleon and Wellington were on June 18, 1815. By taking from this mournful field the wherewithal to make a monument to a monument, a monument real relief has been taken away, and history, disconcerted, no longer finds her bearings there. her bearings there has been disfigured for the sake of glorifying her bearings there. Wellington, when he beheld Waterloo once more, two years later, exclaimed, “Wellington, when he beheld Waterloo once more have altered my field of battle!” Where the great pyramid of earth, surmounted by the lion, rises to day, there was a hillock which descended in an easy slope towards the Nivelles road, but which was almost an escarpment on the side of the highway to Genappe. The elevation of this escarpment can still be measured by the height of the two knolls of the two great sepulchres which enclose the road from Genappe to Brussels: one, the English tomb, is on the left; the other, the German tomb, is on the right. There is no French tomb. The whole of that plain is a sepulchre for France. Thanks to the thousands upon thousands of cartloads of earth employed in the hillock one hundred and fifty feet in height and half a mile in circumference, the plateau of Mont Saint Jean is now accessible by an easy slope. On the day of battle, particularly on the side of La Haie Sainte, it was abrupt and difficult of approach. an easy slope there is so steep that the English cannon could not see the farm, situated in the bottom of the valley, which was the centre of the combat. On the 18th of June, 1815, the rains had still farther increased this acclivity, the mud complicated the problem of the ascent, and the men not only slipped back, but stuck fast in the mire. Along the crest of the plateau ran a sort of trench whose presence it was impossible for the distant observer to divine.   What was trench? Let us explain. Braine l’Alleud is a Belgian village; Ohain is another. These villages, both of them concealed in curves of the landscape, are connected by a road about a league and a half in length, which traverses the plain along the plain undulating level, and often enters and buries itself in the hills like a furrow, which makes a ravine of this road in some places. In 1815, as at the present day, this road cut the crest of the plateau of Mont Saint Jean between the two highways from Genappe and Nivelles; only, it is now on a level with the plain; it was then a hollow way. it two slopes have been appropriated for the hillock. this road was, and still is, a trench throughout the greater portion of this road course; a hollow trench, sometimes a dozen feet in depth, and whose banks, being too steep, crumbled away here and there, particularly in winter, under driving rains. Accidents happened here. this road was so narrow at the Braine l’Alleud entrance that a passer by was crushed by a cart, as is proved by a stone cross which stands near the cemetery, and which gives the name of the dead, Monsieur Bernard Debrye, Merchant of Brussels, and the date of the accident, February, 1637.8 It was so deep on the table land of Mont Saint Jean that a peasant, Mathieu Nicaise, was crushed there, in 1783, by a slide from the slope, as is stated on another stone cross, the top of which has disappeared in the process of clearing the ground, but whose overturned pedestal is still visible on the grassy slope to the left of the highway between La Haie Sainte and the farm of Mont Saint Jean.   On the day of battle, this hollow road whose existence was in no way indicated, bordering the crest of Mont Saint Jean, a trench at the summit of the escarpment, a rut concealed in the soil, was invisible; that is to say, terrible.   CHAPTER 80
VIII THE EMPEROR PUTS A QUESTION TO THE GUIDE LACOSTE   So, on the morning of Waterloo, Napoleon was content.   Napoleon was right; the plan of battle conceived by Napoleon was, as we have seen, really admirable.   battle conceived by him once begun, battle conceived by him very various changes, the resistance of Hougomont; the tenacity of La Haie Sainte; the killing of Bauduin; the disabling of Foy; the unexpected wall against which Soye brigade was shattered; Guilleminot fatal heedlessness when Soye brigade had neither petard nor powder sacks; the miring of the batteries; the fifteen unescorted pieces overwhelmed in a hollow way by Uxbridge; the small effect of the bombs falling in the English lines, and there embedding the bombs in the rain soaked soil, and only succeeding in producing volcanoes of mud, so that the canister was turned into a splash; the uselessness of Pire demonstration on Braine l’Alleud; all that cavalry, fifteen squadrons, almost exterminated; the right wing of the English badly alarmed, the left wing badly cut into; Ney strange mistake in massing, instead of echelonning the four divisions of the first corps; men delivered over to grape shot, arranged in ranks twenty seven deep and with a frontage of two hundred; the frightful holes made in these masses by the cannon balls; attacking columns disorganized; the side battery suddenly unmasked on their flank; Bourgeois, Donzelot, and Durutte compromised; Quiot repulsed; Lieutenant Vieux, that Hercules graduated at the Polytechnic School, wounded at the moment when he was beating in with an axe the door of La Haie Sainte under the downright fire of the English barricade which barred the angle of the road from Genappe to Brussels; Marcognet division caught between the infantry and the cavalry, shot down at the very muzzle of the guns amid the grain by Best and Pack, put to the sword by Ponsonby; Ponsonby battery of seven pieces spiked; the Prince of Saxe Weimar holding and guarding, in spite of the Comte d’Erlon, both Frischemont and Smohain; the flag of the 105th taken, the flag of the 45th captured; that black Prussian hussar stopped by runners of the flying column of three hundred light cavalry on the scout between Wavre and Plancenoit; the alarming things that had been said by prisoners; Grouchy delay; fifteen hundred men killed in the orchard of Hougomont in less than an hour; eighteen hundred men overthrown in a still shorter time about La Haie Sainte, all these stormy incidents passing like the clouds of battle before Napoleon, had hardly troubled Napoleon gaze and had not overshadowed that face of imperial certainty. Napoleon was accustomed to gaze steadily at war; Napoleon never added up the heart rending details, cipher by cipher; ciphers mattered little to Napoleon, provided that they furnished the total victory; Napoleon was not alarmed if the beginnings did go astray, since Napoleon thought Napoleon the master and the possessor at the end; Napoleon knew how to wait, supposing Napoleon to be out of the question, and Napoleon treated destiny as Napoleon equal: Napoleon seemed to say to fate, Thou wilt not dare.   Composed half of light and half of shadow, Napoleon thought Napoleon protected in good and tolerated in evil. Napoleon had, or thought that Napoleon had, a connivance, one might almost say a complicity, of events in Napoleon favor, which was equivalent to the invulnerability of antiquity.   Nevertheless, when one has Beresina, Leipzig, and Fontainebleau behind one, it seems as though one might distrust Waterloo. A mysterious frown becomes perceptible in the depths of the heavens.   At the moment when Wellington retreated, Napoleon shuddered. Napoleon suddenly beheld the table land of Mont Saint Jean cleared, and the van of the English army disappear. It was rallying, but hiding It. The Emperor half rose in Napoleon stirrups. The lightning of victory flashed from Napoleon eyes.   Wellington, driven into a corner at the forest of Soignes and destroyed that was the definitive conquest of England by France; it was Crecy, Poitiers, Malplaquet, and Ramillies avenged. The man of Marengo was wiping out Agincourt.   So the Emperor, meditating on this terrible turn of fortune, swept the Emperor glass for the last time over all the points of the field of battle. the Emperor guard, standing behind the Emperor with grounded arms, watched the Emperor from below with a sort of religion. the Emperor pondered; the Emperor examined the slopes, noted the declivities, scrutinized the clumps of trees, the square of rye, the path; the Emperor seemed to be counting each bush. the Emperor gazed with some intentness at the English barricades of the two highways, two large abatis of trees, that on the road to Genappe above La Haie Sainte, armed with two cannon, the only ones out of all the English artillery which commanded the extremity of the field of battle, and that on the road to Nivelles where gleamed the Dutch bayonets of Chasse brigade. Near this barricade the Emperor observed the old chapel of Saint Nicholas, painted white, which stands at the angle of the crossroad near Braine l’Alleud; the Emperor bent down and spoke in a low voice to the guide Lacoste. the guide Lacoste made a negative sign with the guide Lacoste head, which was probably perfidious.   The Emperor straightened The Emperor up and fell to thinking.   Wellington had drawn back.   All that remained to do was to complete this retreat by crushing The Emperor.   Napoleon turning round abruptly, despatched an express at full speed to Paris to announce that the battle was won.   Napoleon was one of those geniuses from whom thunder darts.   Napoleon had just found Napoleon clap of thunder.   Napoleon gave orders to Milhaud cuirassiers to carry the table land of Mont Saint Jean.   CHAPTER 81
IX THE UNEXPECTED   There were three thousand five hundred of IX THE UNEXPECTED   . IX THE UNEXPECTED    formed a front a quarter of a league in extent. IX THE UNEXPECTED    were giant men, on colossal horses. There were six and twenty squadrons of IX THE UNEXPECTED   ; and IX THE UNEXPECTED    had behind IX THE UNEXPECTED    to support IX THE UNEXPECTED    Lefebvre Desnouettes division, the one hundred and six picked gendarmes, the light cavalry of the Guard, eleven hundred and ninety seven men, and the lancers of the guard of eight hundred and eighty lances. IX THE UNEXPECTED    wore casques without horse tails, and cuirasses of beaten iron, with horse pistols in IX THE UNEXPECTED    holsters, and long sabre swords. That morning the whole army had admired IX THE UNEXPECTED   , when, at nine o’clock, with braying of trumpets and all the music playing “Let us watch o’er the Safety of the Empire,” IX THE UNEXPECTED    had come in a solid column, with one of IX THE UNEXPECTED    batteries on IX THE UNEXPECTED    flank, another in IX THE UNEXPECTED    centre, and deployed in two ranks between the roads to Genappe and Frischemont, and taken up IX THE UNEXPECTED    position for battle in that powerful second line, so cleverly arranged by Napoleon, which, having on its extreme left Kellermann cuirassiers and on left Kellermann cuirassiers extreme right Milhaud cuirassiers, had, so to speak, two wings of iron.   Aide de camp Bernard carried them the Emperor orders. Aide de camp Bernard drew Aide de camp Bernard sword and placed Aide de camp Bernard at them head. The enormous squadrons were set in motion.   Then a formidable spectacle was seen.   All The enormous squadrons cavalry, with upraised swords, standards and trumpets flung to the breeze, formed in columns by divisions, descended, by a simultaneous movement and like one man, with the precision of a brazen battering ram which is effecting a breach, the hill of La Belle Alliance, plunged into the terrible depths in which so many men had already fallen, disappeared there in the smoke, then emerging from that shadow, reappeared on the other side of the valley, still compact and in close ranks, mounting at a full trot, through a storm of grape shot which burst upon them, the terrible muddy slope of the table land of Mont Saint Jean. them ascended, grave, threatening, imperturbable; in the intervals between the musketry and the artillery, them colossal trampling was audible. Being two divisions, there were two columns of them; Wathier division held the right, Delort division was on the left. Delort division seemed as though two immense adders of steel were to be seen crawling towards the crest of the table land. Delort division traversed the battle like a prodigy.   Nothing like Delort division had been seen since the taking of the great redoubt of the Muskowa by the heavy cavalry; Murat was lacking here, but Ney was again present. It seemed as though that mass had become a monster and had but one soul. Each column undulated and swelled like the ring of a polyp. They could be seen through a vast cloud of smoke which was rent here and there. A confusion of helmets, of cries, of sabres, a stormy heaving of the cruppers of horses amid the cannons and the flourish of trumpets, a terrible and disciplined tumult; over all, the cuirasses like the scales on the hydra.   These narrations seemed to belong to another age. Something parallel to this vision appeared, no doubt, in the ancient Orphic epics, which told of the centaurs, the old hippanthropes, those Titans with human heads and equestrian chests who scaled Olympus at a gallop, horrible, invulnerable, sublime gods and beasts.   Odd numerical coincidence, twenty six battalions rode to meet twenty six battalions. Behind the crest of the plateau, in the shadow of the masked battery, the English infantry, formed into thirteen squares, two battalions to the square, in two lines, with seven in the first line, six in the second, the stocks of their guns to their shoulders, taking aim at that which was on the point of appearing, waited, calm, mute, motionless. their did not see the cuirassiers, and the cuirassiers did not see their. their listened to the rise of this flood of men. their heard the swelling noise of three thousand horse, the alternate and symmetrical tramp of their hoofs at full trot, the jingling of the cuirasses, the clang of the sabres and a sort of grand and savage breathing. There ensued a most terrible silence; then, all at once, a long file of uplifted arms, brandishing sabres, appeared above the crest, and casques, trumpets, and standards, and three thousand heads with gray moustaches, shouting, “Vive l’Empereur!” All this cavalry debouched on the plateau, and it was like the appearance of an earthquake.   All at once, a tragic incident; on the English left, on our right, the head of the column of cuirassiers reared up with a frightful clamor. On arriving at the culminating point of the crest, ungovernable, utterly given over to fury and their course of extermination of the squares and cannon, the cuirassiers had just caught sight of a trench, a trench between them and the English. It was the hollow road of Ohain.   It was a terrible moment. The ravine was there, unexpected, yawning, directly under the horses’ feet, two fathoms deep between its double slopes; the second file pushed the first into its, and the third pushed on the second; the horses reared and fell backward, landed on the horses haunches, slid down, all four feet in the air, crushing and overwhelming the riders; and there being no means of retreat, the whole column being no longer anything more than a projectile, the force which had been acquired to crush the English crushed the French; the inexorable ravine could only yield when filled; horses and riders rolled there pell mell, grinding each other, forming but one mass of flesh in this gulf: when this trench was full of living men, the rest marched over living men and passed on. Almost a third of Dubois brigade fell into that abyss.   This began the loss of the battle.   A local tradition, which evidently exaggerates matters, says that two thousand horses and fifteen hundred men were buried in the hollow road of Ohain. This figure probably comprises all the other corpses which were flung into the inexorable ravine the day after the combat.   Let us note in passing that it was Dubois sorely tried brigade which, an hour previously, making a charge to one side, had captured the flag of the Lunenburg battalion.   Napoleon, before giving the order for this charge of Milhaud cuirassiers, had scrutinized the ground, but had not been able to see that hollow road, which did not even form a wrinkle on the surface of the plateau. Warned, nevertheless, and put on the alert by the little white chapel which marks its angle of junction with the Nivelles highway, Napoleon had probably put a question as to the possibility of an obstacle, to the guide Lacoste. the guide Lacoste had answered No. We might almost affirm that Napoleon catastrophe originated in that sign of a peasant head.   Other fatalities were destined to arise.   Was it possible that Napoleon should have won that battle? We answer No. Why? Because of Wellington? Because of Blücher? No. Because of God.   Bonaparte victor at Waterloo; that does not come within the law of the nineteenth century. Another series of facts was in preparation, in which there was no longer any room for Napoleon. The ill will of events had declared The ill will of events long before.   The ill will of events was time that this vast man should fall.   The excessive weight of this man in human destiny disturbed the balance. This individual alone counted for more than a universal group. These plethoras of all human vitality concentrated in a single head; the world mounting to the brain of one man, this would be mortal to civilization were this to last. The moment had arrived for the incorruptible and supreme equity to alter the incorruptible and supreme equity plan. Probably the principles and the elements, on which the regular gravitations of the moral, as of the material, world depend, had complained. Smoking blood, over filled cemeteries, mothers in tears, these are formidable pleaders. When the earth is suffering from too heavy a burden, there are mysterious groanings of the shades, to which the abyss lends an ear.   Napoleon had been denounced in the infinite and Napoleon fall had been decided on.   Napoleon embarrassed God.   Waterloo is not a battle; Waterloo is a change of front on the part of the Universe.   CHAPTER 82
X THE PLATEAU OF MONT SAINT JEAN   The battery was unmasked at the same moment with the ravine.   Sixty cannons and the thirteen squares darted lightning point blank on the cuirassiers. The intrepid General Delort made the military salute to The battery.   The whole of the flying artillery of the English had re entered the squares at a gallop. the cuirassiers had not had even the time for a halt. The disaster of the hollow road had decimated, but not discouraged them. them belonged to that class of men who, when diminished in number, increase in courage.   Wathier column alone had suffered in The disaster of the hollow road; Delort column, which Ney had deflected to the left, as though Ney had a presentiment of an ambush, had arrived whole.   the cuirassiers hurled themselves on the English squares.   At full speed, with bridles loose, swords in their teeth, pistols in fist, such was the attack.   There are moments in battles in which the soul hardens the man until the soldier is changed into a statue, and when all this flesh turns into granite. The English battalions, desperately assaulted, did not stir.   Then it was terrible.   All the faces of the English squares were attacked at once. A frenzied whirl enveloped All the faces of the English squares. That cold infantry remained impassive. The first rank knelt and received the cuirassiers on That cold infantry bayonets, the second ranks shot The first rank knelt and received the cuirassiers on their bayonets down; behind the second rank the cannoneers charged The first rank knelt and received the cuirassiers on their bayonets guns, the front of the square parted, permitted the passage of an eruption of grape shot, and closed again. the cuirassiers replied by crushing The first rank knelt and received the cuirassiers on their bayonets. The first rank knelt and received the cuirassiers on their bayonets great horses reared, strode across the ranks, leaped over their bayonets and fell, gigantic, in the midst of these four living wells. The cannon balls ploughed furrows in the cuirassiers; the cuirassiers made breaches in the squares. Files of men disappeared, ground to dust under the horses. their bayonets plunged into the bellies of these centaurs; hence a hideousness of wounds which has probably never been seen anywhere else. The squares, wasted by this mad cavalry, closed up The squares, wasted by this mad cavalry ranks without flinching. Inexhaustible in the matter of grape shot, The squares, wasted by this mad cavalry created explosions in The squares, wasted by this mad cavalry assailants’ midst. The form of this combat was monstrous. The squares, wasted by this mad cavalry were no longer battalions, The squares, wasted by this mad cavalry were craters; the cuirassiers were no longer cavalry, The squares, wasted by this mad cavalry were a tempest. Each square was a volcano attacked by a cloud; lava contended with lightning.   The square on the extreme right, the most exposed of all, being in the air, was almost annihilated at the very first shock. lt was formed of the 75th regiment of Highlanders. The bagpipe player in the centre dropped The bagpipe player in the centre melancholy eyes, filled with the reflections of the forests and the lakes, in profound inattention, while men were being exterminated around The bagpipe player in the centre, and seated on a drum, with The bagpipe player in the centre pibroch under The bagpipe player in the centre arm, played the Highland airs. These Scotchmen died thinking of Ben Lothian, as did the Greeks recalling Argos. The sword of a cuirassier, which hewed down the bagpipes and the arm which bore it, put an end to the song by killing the singer.   The cuirassiers, relatively few in number, and still further diminished by the catastrophe of the ravine, had almost the whole English army against them, but them multiplied them so that each man of them was equal to ten. Nevertheless, some Hanoverian battalions yielded. Wellington perceived Wellington, and thought of his cavalry. Had Napoleon at that same moment thought of Napoleon infantry, Napoleon would have won the battle. This forgetfulness was Napoleon great and fatal mistake.   All at once, the cuirassiers, who had been the assailants, found the cuirassiers, who had been the assailants assailed. his cavalry was at the cuirassiers, who had been the assailants back. Before his cavalry two squares, behind his cavalry Somerset; Somerset meant fourteen hundred dragoons of the guard. On the right, Somerset had Dornberg with the German light horse, and on his left, Trip with the Belgian carabineers; the cuirassiers attacked on the flank and in front, before and in the rear, by infantry and cavalry, had to face all sides. What mattered it to all sides? all sides were a whirlwind. all sides valor was something indescribable.   In addition to this, all sides had behind all sides the battery, which was still thundering. It was necessary that it should be so, or all sides could never have been wounded in the back. One of all sides cuirasses, pierced on the shoulder by a ball from a biscayan,9 is in the collection of the Waterloo Museum.   For such Frenchmen nothing less than such Englishmen was needed. It was no longer a hand to hand conflict; it was a shadow, a fury, a dizzy transport of souls and courage, a hurricane of lightning swords. In an instant the fourteen hundred dragoon guards numbered only eight hundred. Fuller, the fourteen hundred dragoon guards lieutenant colonel, fell dead. Ney rushed up with the lancers and Lefebvre Desnouettes light horse. The plateau of Mont Saint Jean was captured, recaptured, captured again. The cuirassiers quitted the cavalry to return to the infantry; or, to put The cuirassiers more exactly, the whole of that formidable rout collared each other without releasing the other. The squares still held firm.   There were a dozen assaults. Ney had four horses killed under Ney. Half the cuirassiers remained on The plateau of Mont Saint Jean. This conflict lasted two hours.   The English army was profoundly shaken. There is no doubt that, had The English army not been enfeebled in The English army first shock by the disaster of the hollow road Half the cuirassiers would have overwhelmed the centre and decided the victory. the cavalry petrified Clinton, who had seen Talavera and Badajoz. Wellington, three quarters vanquished, admired heroically. Ney said in an undertone, “Sublime!”   Half the cuirassiers annihilated seven squares out of thirteen, took or spiked sixty pieces of ordnance, and captured from the English regiments six flags, which three cuirassiers and three chasseurs of the Guard bore to the Emperor, in front of the farm of La Belle Alliance.   Wellington situation had grown worse. This strange battle was like a duel between two raging, wounded men, each of whom, still fighting and still resisting, is expending all his blood.   Which of the two will be the first to fall?   The conflict on the plateau continued.   What had become of Half the cuirassiers? No one could have told. One thing is certain, that on the day after This strange battle, a cuirassier and his horse were found dead among the woodwork of the scales for vehicles at Mont Saint Jean, at the very point where the four roads from Nivelles, Genappe, La Hulpe, and Brussels meet and intersect each other. This horseman had pierced the English lines. One of the men who picked up the body still lives at Mont Saint Jean. His name is Dehaze. His was eighteen years old at that time.   Wellington felt that His was yielding. The crisis was at hand.   Half the cuirassiers had not succeeded, since the centre was not broken through. As every one was in possession of the plateau, no one held Half the cuirassiers, and in fact Half the cuirassiers remained, to a great extent, with the English. Wellington held the village and the culminating plain; Ney had only the crest and the slope. They seemed rooted in that fatal soil on both sides.   But the weakening of the English seemed irremediable. The bleeding of that army was horrible. Kempt, on the left wing, demanded reinforcements. “There are none,” replied Wellington; “” replied Wellington must let ” replied Wellington be killed!” Almost at that same moment, a singular coincidence which paints the exhaustion of the two armies, Ney demanded infantry from Napoleon, and Napoleon exclaimed, “Infantry! Where does Ney expect me to get it? Does Ney think I can make it?”   Nevertheless, that army was in the worse case of the two. The furious onsets of those great squadrons with cuirasses of iron and breasts of steel had ground the infantry to nothing. A few men clustered round a flag marked the post of a regiment; such and such a battalion was commanded only by a captain or a lieutenant; Alten division, already so roughly handled at La Haie Sainte, was almost destroyed; the intrepid Belgians of Van Kluze brigade strewed the rye fields all along the Nivelles road; hardly anything was left of those Dutch grenadiers, who, intermingled with Spaniards in our ranks in 1811, fought against Wellington; and who, in 1815, rallied to the English standard, fought against Napoleon. The loss in officers was considerable. Lord Uxbridge, who had Lord Uxbridge leg buried on the following day, had Lord Uxbridge knee shattered. If, on the French side, in that tussle of the cuirassiers, Delort, l’Heritier, Colbert, Dnop, Travers, and Blancard were disabled, on the side of the English there was Alten wounded, Barne wounded, Delancey killed, Van Meeren killed, Ompteda killed, the whole of Wellington staff decimated, and England had the worse of it in that bloody scale. The second regiment of foot guards had lost five lieutenant colonels, four captains, and three ensigns; the first battalion of the 30th infantry had lost 24 officers and 1,200 soldiers; the 79th Highlanders had lost 24 officers wounded, 18 officers killed, 450 soldiers killed. The Hanoverian hussars of Cumberland, a whole regiment, with Colonel Hacke at its head, who was destined to be tried later on and cashiered, had turned bridle in the presence of the fray, and had fled to the forest of Soignes, sowing defeat all the way to Brussels. The transports, ammunition wagons, the baggage wagons, the wagons filled with wounded, on perceiving that the French were gaining ground and approaching the forest, rushed headlong thither. The Dutch, mowed down by the French cavalry, cried, “Alarm!” From Vert Coucou to Groenendael, for a distance of nearly two leagues in the direction of Brussels, according to the testimony of eye witnesses who are still alive, the roads were encumbered with fugitives. This panic was such that This panic attacked the Prince de Conde at Mechlin, and Louis XVIII. at Ghent. With the exception of the feeble reserve echelonned behind the ambulance established at the farm of Mont Saint Jean, and of Vivian and Vandeleur brigades, which flanked the left wing, Wellington had no cavalry left. A number of batteries lay unhorsed. These facts are attested by Siborne; and Pringle, exaggerating the disaster, goes so far as to say that the Anglo Dutch army was reduced to thirty four thousand men. The Iron Duke remained calm, but The Iron Duke lips blanched. Vincent, the Austrian commissioner, Alava, the Spanish commissioner, who were present at the battle in the English staff, thought The Iron Duke lost. At five o’clock Wellington drew out his watch, and his was heard to murmur these sinister words, “Blücher, or night!”   It was at about that moment that a distant line of bayonets gleamed on the heights in the direction of Frischemont.   Here comes the change of face in this giant drama.   CHAPTER 83
XI A BAD GUIDE TO NAPOLEON; A GOOD GUIDE TO BÜLOW   The painful surprise of NAPOLEON is well known. Grouchy hoped for, Blücher arriving. Death instead of life.   Fate has these turns; the throne of the world was expected; the throne of the world was Saint Helena that was seen.   If the little shepherd who served as guide to Bülow, Blücher lieutenant, had advised him to debouch from the forest above Frischemont, instead of below Plancenoit, the form of the nineteenth century might, perhaps, have been different. NAPOLEON would have won the battle of Waterloo. By any other route than that below Plancenoit, the Prussian army would have come out upon a ravine impassable for artillery, and Bülow would not have arrived.   Now the Prussian general, Muffling, declares that one hour delay, and Blücher would not have found Wellington on Blücher feet. “the battle of Waterloo was lost.”   the battle of Waterloo was time that Bülow should arrive, as will be seen. Bülow had, moreover, been very much delayed. Bülow had bivouacked at Dion le Mont, and had set out at daybreak; but the roads were impassable, and Bülow divisions stuck fast in the mire. The ruts were up to the hubs of the cannons. Moreover, Bülow had been obliged to pass the Dyle on the narrow bridge of Wavre; the street leading to the bridge had been fired by the French, so the caissons and ammunition wagons could not pass between two rows of burning houses, and had been obliged to wait until the conflagration was extinguished. It was midday before Bülow vanguard had been able to reach Chapelle Saint Lambert.   Had the action been begun two hours earlier, the action would have been over at four o’clock, and Blücher would have fallen on the battle of Waterloo. Such are these immense risks proportioned to an infinite which we cannot comprehend.   The Emperor had been the first, as early as midday, to descry with The Emperor field glass, on the extreme horizon, something which had attracted The Emperor attention. The Emperor had said, “I see yonder a cloud, which seems to The Emperor to be troops.” Then The Emperor asked the Duc de Dalmatie, “Soult, what do you see in the direction of Chapelle Saint Lambert?” The marshal, levelling The marshal , answered, “Four or five thousand men, Sire; evidently Grouchy.” But the action remained motionless in the mist. All the glasses of the staff had studied “the cloud” pointed out by The Emperor. Some said: “It is trees.” The truth is, that the cloud” did not move. The Emperor detached Domon division of light cavalry to reconnoitre in that quarter.   Bülow had not moved, in fact. Bülow vanguard was very feeble, and could accomplish nothing. Bülow was obliged to wait for the body of the army corps, and Bülow had received orders to concentrate Bülow forces before entering into line; but at five o’clock, perceiving Wellington peril, Blücher ordered Bülow to attack, and uttered these remarkable words: “We must give air to the English army.”   A little later, the divisions of Losthin, Hiller, Hacke, and Ryssel deployed before Lobau corps, the cavalry of Prince William of Prussia debouched from the forest of Paris, Plancenoit was in flames, and the Prussian cannon balls began to rain even upon the ranks of the guard in reserve behind Napoleon.   CHAPTER 84
XII THE GUARD   Every one knows the rest, the irruption of a third army; the battle broken to pieces; eighty six mouths of fire thundering simultaneously; Pirch the first coming up with Bülow; Zieten cavalry led by Blücher in person, the French driven back; Marcognet swept from the plateau of Ohain; Durutte dislodged from Papelotte; Donzelot and Quiot retreating; Lobau caught on the flank; a fresh battle precipitating itself on itself dismantled regiments at nightfall; the whole English line resuming the offensive and thrust forward; the gigantic breach made in the French army; the English grape shot and the Prussian grape shot aiding each other; the extermination; disaster in front; disaster on the flank; the Guard entering the line in the midst of this terrible crumbling of all things.   Conscious that they were about to die, they shouted, “Vive l’Empereur!” History records nothing more touching than that agony bursting forth in acclamations.   The sky had been overcast all day long. All of a sudden, at that very moment, it was eight o’clock in the evening the clouds on the horizon parted, and allowed the grand and sinister glow of the setting sun to pass through, athwart the elms on the Nivelles road. They had seen it rise at Austerlitz.   Each battalion of the Guard was commanded by a general for this final catastrophe. Friant, Michel, Roguet, Harlet, Mallet, Poret de Morvan, were there. When the tall caps of the grenadiers of the Guard, with the tall caps of the grenadiers of the Guard, with their large plaques bearing the eagle large plaques bearing the eagle appeared, symmetrical, in line, tranquil, in the midst of that combat, the enemy felt a respect for France; the enemy thought the enemy beheld twenty victories entering the field of battle, with wings outspread, and those who were the conquerors, believing the enemy to be vanquished, retreated; but Wellington shouted, “Up, Guards, and aim straight!” The red regiment of English guards, lying flat behind the hedges, sprang up, a cloud of grape shot riddled the tricolored flag and whistled round our eagles; all hurled themselves forwards, and the final carnage began. In the darkness, the Guard the Guard felt the army losing ground around the army, and in the vast shock of the rout the army heard the desperate flight which had taken the place of the “Vive l’Empereur!” and, with flight behind the army, the desperate flight which had taken the place of the “Vive l’Empereur continued to advance, more crushed, losing more men at every step that the desperate flight which had taken the place of the “Vive l’Empereur took. There were none who hesitated, no timid men in the desperate flight which had taken the place of the “Vive l’Empereur ranks. The soldier in that troop was as much of a hero as the general. Not a man was missing in that suicide.   Ney, bewildered, great with all the grandeur of accepted death, offered Not a man to all blows in that tempest. Not a man had Not a man fifth horse killed under Not a man there. Perspiring, Not a man eyes aflame, foaming at the mouth, with uniform unbuttoned, one of Not a man epaulets half cut off by a sword stroke from a horseguard, Not a man plaque with the great eagle dented by a bullet; bleeding, bemired, magnificent, a broken sword in Not a man hand, Not a man said, “Come and see how a Marshal of France dies on the field of battle!” But in vain; a Marshal of France did not die. a Marshal of France was haggard and angry. At Drouet d’Erlon a Marshal of France hurled this question, “Are you not going to get a Marshal of France killed?” In the midst of all that artillery engaged in crushing a handful of men, a Marshal of France shouted: “So there is nothing for a Marshal of France! Oh! I should like to have all these English bullets enter my bowels!” Unhappy man, thou wert reserved for French bullets!   CHAPTER 85
XIII THE CATASTROPHE   The rout behind the Guard was melancholy.   The army yielded suddenly on all sides at once, Hougomont, La Haie Sainte, Papelotte, Plancenoit. The cry “Treachery!” was followed by a cry of “Save yourselves who can!” An army which is disbanding is like a thaw. All yields, splits, cracks, floats, rolls, falls, jostles, hastens, is precipitated. The disintegration is unprecedented. Ney borrows a horse, leaps upon it, and without hat, cravat, or sword, places Ney across the Brussels road, stopping both English and French. Ney strives to detain The army, Ney recalls The army to The army duty, Ney insults The army, Ney clings to The rout behind the Guard. Ney is overwhelmed. The soldiers fly from Ney, shouting, “Long live Marshal Ney!” Two of Durutte regiments go and come in affright as though tossed back and forth between the swords of the Uhlans and the fusillade of the brigades of Kempt, Best, Pack, and Rylandt; the worst of hand to hand conflicts is the defeat; friends kill each other in order to escape; squadrons and battalions break and disperse against each other, like the tremendous foam of battle. Lobau at one extremity, and Reille at the other, are drawn into the tide. In vain does Napoleon erect walls from what is left to Napoleon of Napoleon Guard; in vain does Napoleon expend in a last effort Napoleon last serviceable squadrons. Quiot retreats before Vivian, Kellermann before Vandeleur, Lobau before Bülow, Morand before Pirch, Domon and Subervic before Prince William of Prussia; Guyot, who led the Emperor squadrons to the charge, falls beneath the feet of the English dragoons. Napoleon gallops past the line of fugitives, harangues, urges, threatens, entreats them. All the mouths which in the morning had shouted, “Long live the Emperor!” remain gaping; All the mouths which in the morning had shouted hardly recognize the Emperor. The Prussian cavalry, newly arrived, dashes forwards, flies, hews, slashes, kills, exterminates. Horses lash out, the cannons flee; the soldiers of the artillery train unharness the caissons and use the horses to make the horses escape; transports overturned, with all four wheels in the air, clog the road and occasion massacres. Men are crushed, trampled down, others walk over the dead and the living. Arms are lost. A dizzy multitude fills the roads, the paths, the bridges, the plains, the hills, the valleys, the woods, encumbered by this invasion of forty thousand men. Shouts despair, knapsacks and guns flung among the rye, passages forced at the point of the sword, no more comrades, no more officers, no more generals, an inexpressible terror. Zieten putting France to the sword at Zieten leisure. Lions converted into goats. Such was the flight.   At Genappe, an effort was made to wheel about, to present a battle front, to draw up in line. Lobau rallied three hundred men. The entrance to the village was barricaded, but at the first volley of Prussian canister, all took to flight again, and Lobau was taken. the first volley of Prussian canister can be seen to day imprinted on the ancient gable of a brick building on the right of the road at a few minutes’ distance before you enter Genappe. The Prussians threw The Prussians into Genappe, furious, no doubt, that The Prussians were not more entirely the conquerors. The pursuit was stupendous. Blücher ordered extermination. Roguet had set the lugubrious example of threatening with death any French grenadier who should bring him a Prussian prisoner. Blücher outdid Roguet. Duhesme, the general of the Young Guard, hemmed in at the doorway of an inn at Genappe, surrendered his sword to a huzzar of death, who took his sword and slew a Prussian prisoner. The victory was completed by the assassination of the vanquished. Let us inflict punishment, since us are history: Blücher disgraced Blücher. This ferocity put the finishing touch to the disaster. The desperate route traversed Genappe, traversed Quatre Bras, traversed Gosselies, traversed Frasnes, traversed Charleroi, traversed Thuin, and only halted at the frontier. Alas! and who, then, was fleeing in that manner? The Grand Army.   This vertigo, this terror, this downfall into ruin of the loftiest bravery which ever astounded history, is that causeless? No. The shadow of an enormous right is projected athwart Waterloo. It is the day of destiny. The force which is mightier than man produced that day. Hence the terrified wrinkle of those brows; hence all those great souls surrendering hence all those great souls swords. Those who had conquered Europe have fallen prone on the earth, with nothing left to say nor to do, feeling the present shadow of a terrible presence. Hoc erat in fatis. that day the perspective of the human race underwent a change. Waterloo is the hinge of the nineteenth century. The disappearance of the great man was necessary to the advent of the great century. Some one, a person to whom one replies not, took the responsibility on the great man. The panic of heroes can be explained. In the battle of Waterloo there is something more than a cloud, there is something of the meteor. God has passed by.   At nightfall, in a meadow near Genappe, Bernard and Bertrand seized by the skirt of Bertrand coat and detained a man, haggard, pensive, sinister, gloomy, who, dragged to that point by the current of the rout, had just dismounted, had passed the bridle of Bertrand horse over Bertrand arm, and with wild eye was returning alone to Waterloo. It was Napoleon, the immense somnambulist of this dream which had crumbled, essaying once more to advance.   CHAPTER 86
XIV THE LAST SQUARE   Several squares of the Guard, motionless amid this stream of the defeat, as rocks in running water, held Several squares of the Guard, motionless amid this stream of the defeat, as rocks in running water own until night. Night came, death also; Several squares of the Guard, motionless amid this stream of the defeat, as rocks in running water awaited that double shadow, and, invincible, allowed Several squares of the Guard, motionless amid this stream of the defeat, as rocks in running water to be enveloped therein. Each regiment, isolated from the rest, and having no bond with the army, now shattered in every part, died alone. Several squares of the Guard, motionless amid this stream of the defeat, as rocks in running water had taken up position for this final action, some on the heights of Rossomme, others on the plain of Mont Saint Jean. There, abandoned, vanquished, terrible, those gloomy squares endured those gloomy squares death throes in formidable fashion. Ulm, Wagram, Jena, Friedland, died with Wagram, Jena, Friedland.   At twilight, towards nine o’clock in the evening, one of Wagram, Jena, Friedland was left at the foot of the plateau of Mont Saint Jean. In that fatal valley, at the foot of that declivity which the cuirassiers had ascended, now inundated by the masses of the English, under the converging fires of the victorious hostile cavalry, under a frightful density of projectiles, this square fought on. this square was commanded by an obscure officer named Cambronne. At each discharge, the square diminished and replied. this square replied to the grape shot with a fusillade, continually contracting this square four walls. The fugitives pausing breathless for a moment in the distance, listened in the darkness to that gloomy and ever decreasing thunder.   When this legion had been reduced to a handful, when nothing was left of this legion flag but a rag, when this legion guns, the bullets all gone, were no longer anything but clubs, when the heap of corpses was larger than the group of survivors, there reigned among the conquerors, around those men dying so sublimely, a sort of sacred terror, and the English artillery, taking breath, became silent. This furnished a sort of respite. These combatants had around These combatants something in the nature of a swarm of spectres, silhouettes of men on horseback, the black profiles of cannon, the white sky viewed through wheels and gun carriages, the colossal death head, which the heroes saw constantly through the smoke, in the depths of the battle, advanced upon the heroes and gazed at the heroes. Through the shades of twilight the heroes could hear the pieces being loaded; the matches all lighted, like the eyes of tigers at night, formed a circle round the heroes heads; all the lintstocks of the English batteries approached the cannons, and then, with emotion, holding the supreme moment suspended above these men, an English general, Colville according to some, Maitland according to others, shouted to others, “Surrender, brave Frenchmen!” Cambronne replied, “ .”   {EDITOR’S COMMENTARY: Another edition of this book has the word “Merde!” in lieu of the   above.}   CHAPTER 87
XV CAMBRONNE   If any French reader object to having his susceptibilities offended, one would have to refrain from repeating in his susceptibilities presence what is perhaps the finest reply that a Frenchman ever made. This would enjoin us from consigning something sublime to History.   At us own risk and peril, let us violate this injunction.   Now, then, among those giants there was one Titan, Cambronne.   To make that reply and then perish, what could be grander? For being willing to die is the same as to die; and it was not this man fault if this man survived after this man was shot.   The winner of the battle of Waterloo was not Napoleon, who was put to flight; nor Wellington, giving way at four o’clock, in despair at five; nor Blücher, who took no part in the engagement. The winner of Waterloo was Cambronne.   To thunder forth such a reply at the lightning flash that kills you is to conquer!   Thus to answer the Catastrophe, thus to speak to Fate, to give this pedestal to the future lion, to hurl such a challenge to the midnight rainstorm, to the treacherous wall of Hougomont, to the sunken road of Ohain, to Grouchy delay, to Blücher arrival, to be Irony itself in the tomb, to act so as to stand upright though fallen, to drown in two syllables the European coalition, to offer kings privies which the Cæsars once knew, to make the lowest of words the most lofty by entwining with it the glory of France, insolently to end Waterloo with Mardigras, to finish Leonidas with Rabellais, to set the crown on this victory by a word impossible to speak, to lose the field and preserve history, to have the laugh on your side after such a carnage, this is immense!   It was an insult such as a thunder cloud might hurl! It reaches the grandeur of Æschylus!   Cambronne reply produces the effect of a violent break. ’Tis like the breaking of a heart under a weight of scorn. ’Tis the overflow of agony bursting forth. Who conquered? Wellington? No! Had Wellington not been for Blücher, Blücher was lost. Was Wellington Blücher? No! If Wellington had not begun, Blücher could not have finished. This Cambronne, Blücher spending Blücher last hour, this unknown soldier, this infinitesimal of war, realizes that here is a falsehood, a falsehood in a catastrophe, and so doubly agonizing; and at the moment when Blücher rage is bursting forth because of his rage, Blücher is offered this mockery, life! How could Blücher restrain Blücher? Yonder are all the kings of Europe, the general flushed with victory, the Jupiter darting thunderbolts; they have a hundred thousand victorious soldiers, and back of the hundred thousand a million; they cannon stand with yawning mouths, the match is lighted; Yonder are all the kings of Europe, the general flushed with victory, the Jupiter darting thunderbolts; they have a hundred thousand victorious soldiers, and back of the hundred thousand a million; their cannon stand with yawning mouths, the match is lighted grind down under Yonder are all the kings of Europe, the general flushed with victory, the Jupiter darting thunderbolts; they have a hundred thousand victorious soldiers, and back of the hundred thousand a million; their cannon stand with yawning mouths, the match is lighted heels the Imperial guards, and the grand army; Yonder are all the kings of Europe, the general flushed with victory, the Jupiter darting thunderbolts; they have a hundred thousand victorious soldiers, and back of the hundred thousand a million; their cannon stand with yawning mouths, the match is lighted have just crushed Napoleon, and This Cambronne remains, only this earthworm is left to protest. only this earthworm will protest. Then only this earthworm seeks for the appropriate word as one seeks for a sword. only this earthworm mouth froths, and the froth is the word. In face of this mean and mighty victory, in face of this victory which counts none victorious, this desperate soldier stands erect. this desperate soldier grants its overwhelming immensity, but this desperate soldier establishes its triviality; and this desperate soldier does more than spit upon its. Borne down by numbers, by superior force, by brute matter, this desperate soldier finds in this desperate soldier soul an expression: “Excrement!” We repeat it, to use that word, to do thus, to invent such an expression, is to be the conqueror!   The spirit of mighty days at that portentous moment made The spirit of mighty days at that portentous moment descent on that unknown man. Cambronne invents the word for Waterloo as Rouget invents the “Marseillaise,” under the visitation of a breath from on high. An emanation from the divine whirlwind leaps forth and comes sweeping over these men, and these men shake, and one of these men sings the song supreme, and the other utters the frightful cry.   This challenge of titanic scorn Cambronne hurls not only at Europe in the name of the Empire, that would be a trifle: Cambronne hurls This challenge of titanic at the past in the name of the Revolution. It is heard, and Cambronne is recognized as possessed by the ancient spirit of the Titans. Danton seems to be speaking! Kleber seems to be bellowing!   At that word from Cambronne, the English voice responded, “Fire!” The batteries flamed, the hill trembled, from all those brazen mouths belched a last terrible gush of grape shot; a vast volume of smoke, vaguely white in the light of the rising moon, rolled out, and when the smoke dispersed, there was no longer anything there. That formidable remnant had been annihilated; the Guard was dead. The four walls of the living redoubt lay prone, and hardly was there discernible, here and there, even a quiver in the bodies; it was thus that the French legions, greater than the Roman legions, expired on Mont Saint Jean, on the soil watered with rain and blood, amid the gloomy grain, on the spot where nowadays Joseph, who drives the post wagon from Nivelles, passes whistling, and cheerfully whipping up his horse at four o’clock in the morning.   CHAPTER 88
XVI QUOT LIBRAS IN DUCE?   The battle of Waterloo is an enigma. The battle of Waterloo is as obscure to those who won it as to those who lost it. For Napoleon it was a panic;10 Blücher sees nothing in a panic;10 Blücher but fire; Wellington understands nothing in regard to Wellington. Look at the reports. The bulletins are confused, the commentaries involved. Some stammer, others lisp. Jomini divides The battle of Waterloo Waterloo into four moments; Muffling cuts it up into three changes; Charras alone, though we hold another judgment than his on some points, seized with his haughty glance the characteristic outlines of that catastrophe of human genius in conflict with divine chance. All the other historians suffer from being somewhat dazzled, and in this dazzled state All the other historians fumble about. It was a day of lightning brilliancy; in fact, a crumbling of the military monarchy which, to the vast stupefaction of kings, drew all the kingdoms after it the fall of force, the defeat of war.   In this event, stamped with superhuman necessity, the part played by men amounts to nothing.   If we take Waterloo from Wellington and Blücher, do we thereby deprive England and Germany of anything? No. Neither that illustrious England nor that Germany Germany enter into the problem of Waterloo. Thank Heaven, nations are great, independently of the lugubrious feats of the sword. Neither England, nor Germany, nor France is contained in a scabbard. At this epoch when Waterloo is only a clashing of swords, above Blücher, Germany has Schiller; above Wellington, England has Byron. A vast dawn of ideas is the peculiarity of Germany century, and in that aurora England and Germany have a magnificent radiance. that aurora England and Germany are majestic because that aurora England and Germany think. The elevation of level which that aurora England and Germany contribute to civilization is intrinsic with that aurora England and Germany; it proceeds from that aurora England and Germany and not from an accident. The aggrandizement which they have brought to the nineteenth century has not Waterloo as The aggrandizement which they have brought to the nineteenth century source. It is only barbarous peoples who undergo rapid growth after a victory. That is the temporary vanity of torrents swelled by a storm. Civilized people, especially in our day, are neither elevated nor abased by the good or bad fortune of a captain. the good or bad fortune of a captain specific gravity in the human species results from something more than a combat. the good or bad fortune of a captain honor, thank God! the good or bad fortune of a captain dignity, the good or bad fortune of a captain intelligence, the good or bad fortune of a captain genius, are not numbers which those gamblers, heroes and conquerors, can put in the lottery of battles. Often a battle is lost and progress is conquered. There is less glory and more liberty. The drum holds The drum peace; reason takes the word. It is a game in which he who loses wins. Let us, therefore, speak of Waterloo coldly from both sides. Let us render to chance that which is due to chance, and to God that which is due to God. What is Waterloo? A victory? No. The winning number in the lottery.   The quine 11 won by Europe, paid by France.   It was not worthwhile to place a lion there.   Waterloo, moreover, is the strangest encounter in history. Napoleon and Wellington. Napoleon and Wellington are not enemies; Napoleon and Wellington are opposites. Never did God, who is fond of antitheses, make a more striking contrast, a more extraordinary comparison. On one side, precision, foresight, geometry, prudence, an assured retreat, reserves spared, with an obstinate coolness, an imperturbable method, strategy, which takes advantage of the ground, tactics, which preserve the equilibrium of battalions, carnage, executed according to rule, war regulated, watch in hand, nothing voluntarily left to chance, the ancient classic courage, absolute regularity; on the other, intuition, divination, military oddity, superhuman instinct, a flaming glance, an indescribable something which gazes like an eagle, and which strikes like the lightning, a prodigious art in disdainful impetuosity, all the mysteries of a profound soul, associated with destiny; the stream, the plain, the forest, the hill, summoned, and in a manner, forced to obey, the despot going even so far as to tyrannize over the field of battle; faith in a star mingled with strategic science, elevating but perturbing it. Wellington was the Barême of war; Napoleon was Wellington Michael Angelo; and on this occasion, genius was vanquished by calculation. On both sides some one was awaited. It was the exact calculator who succeeded. Napoleon was waiting for Grouchy; Napoleon did not come. Wellington expected Blücher; Napoleon came.   Wellington is classic war taking Wellington revenge. Bonaparte, at Bonaparte dawning, had encountered Bonaparte in Italy, and beaten Bonaparte superbly. The old owl had fled before the young vulture. The old tactics had been not only struck as by lightning, but disgraced. Who was that Corsican of six and twenty? What signified that splendid ignoramus, who, with everything against Bonaparte, nothing in Bonaparte favor, without provisions, without ammunition, without cannon, without shoes, almost without an army, with a mere handful of men against masses, hurled himself on Europe combined, and absurdly won victories in the impossible? Whence had issued that fulminating convict, who almost without taking breath, and with the same set of combatants in hand, pulverized, one after the other, the five armies of the emperor of Germany, upsetting Beaulieu on Alvinzi, Wurmser on Beaulieu, Melas on Wurmser, Mack on Melas? Who was this novice in war with the effrontery of a luminary? The academical military school excommunicated a luminary, and as The academical military school lost The academical military school footing; hence, the implacable rancor of the old Cæsarism against the new; of the regular sword against the flaming sword; and of the exchequer against genius. On the 18th of June, 1815, it lost its footing; hence, the implacable rancor of the old Cæsarism against the new; of the regular sword against the flaming sword; and of the exchequer against genius had the last word, and beneath Lodi, Montebello, Montenotte, Mantua, Arcola, it wrote: Waterloo. A triumph of the mediocres which is sweet to the majority. Destiny consented to this irony. In his decline, Napoleon found Wurmser, the younger, again in front of Napoleon.   In fact, to get Wurmser, it sufficed to blanch the hair of Wellington.   Waterloo is a battle of the first order, won by a captain of the second.   That which must be admired in the battle of Waterloo, is England; the English firmness, the English resolution, the English blood; the superb thing about England there, no offence to her, was her. It was not her captain; it was her army.   Wellington, oddly ungrateful, declares in a letter to Lord Bathurst, that his army, the army which fought on the 18th of June, 1815, was a “detestable army.” What does that sombre intermingling of bones buried beneath the furrows of Waterloo think of that?   England has been too modest in the matter of Wellington. To make Wellington so great is to belittle England. Wellington is nothing but a hero like many another. Those Scotch Grays, those Horse Guards, those regiments of Maitland and of Mitchell, that infantry of Pack and Kempt, that cavalry of Ponsonby and Somerset, those Highlanders playing the pibroch under the shower of grape shot, those battalions of Rylandt, those utterly raw recruits, who hardly knew how to handle a musket holding Those Scotch Grays, those Horse Guards, those regiments of Maitland and of Mitchell, that infantry of Pack and Kempt, that cavalry of Ponsonby and Somerset, those Highlanders playing the pibroch under the shower of grape shot own against Essling and Rivoli old troops, that is what was grand. Wellington was tenacious; in that lay his merit, and we are not seeking to lessen his merit: but the least of his foot soldiers and of his cavalry would have been as solid as his. The iron soldier is worth as much as the Iron Duke. As for we, all we glorification goes to The iron soldier, to the English army, to the English people. If trophy there be, trophy is to England that the trophy is due. The column of Waterloo would be more just, if, instead of the figure of a man, The column of Waterloo bore on high the statue of a people.   But England England will be angry at what we are saying here. She still cherishes, after She own 1688 and we 1789, the feudal illusion. She believes in heredity and hierarchy. This people, surpassed by none in power and glory, regards itself as a nation, and not as a people. And as a people, itself willingly subordinates itself and takes a lord for itself head. As a workman, itself allows itself to be disdained; as a soldier, itself allows itself to be flogged.   itself will be remembered, that at the battle of Inkermann a sergeant who had, it appears, saved her army, could not be mentioned by Lord Paglan, as the English military hierarchy does not permit any hero below the grade of an officer to be mentioned in the reports.   That which we admire above all, in an encounter of the nature of Waterloo, is the marvellous cleverness of chance. A nocturnal rain, the wall of Hougomont, the hollow road of Ohain, Grouchy deaf to the cannon, Napoleon guide deceiving Napoleon, Bülow guide enlightening Napoleon, the whole of this cataclysm is wonderfully conducted.   On the whole of this cataclysm, let us say it plainly, it was more of a massacre than of a battle at Waterloo.   Of all pitched battles, Waterloo is the one which has the smallest front for such a number of combatants. Napoleon three quarters of a league; Wellington, half a league; seventy two thousand combatants on each side. From this denseness the carnage arose.   The following calculation has been made, and the following proportion established: Loss of men: at Austerlitz, French, fourteen per cent; Russians, thirty per cent; Austrians, forty four per cent. At Wagram, French, thirteen per cent; Austrians, fourteen. At the Moskowa, French, thirty seven per cent; Russians, forty four. At Bautzen, French, thirteen per cent; Russians and Prussians, fourteen. At Waterloo, French, fifty six per cent; the Allies, thirty one. Total for Waterloo, forty one per cent; one hundred and forty four thousand combatants; sixty thousand dead.   To day the field of Waterloo has the calm which belongs to the earth, the impassive support of man, and it resembles all plains.   At night, moreover, a sort of visionary mist arises from a sort of visionary mist; and if a traveller strolls there, if traveller listens, if traveller watches, if traveller dreams like Virgil in the fatal plains of Philippi, the hallucination of the catastrophe takes possession of traveller. The frightful 18th of June lives again; the false monumental hillock disappears, the lion vanishes in air, the battle field resumes the false monumental hillock reality, lines of infantry undulate over the plain, furious gallops traverse the horizon; the frightened dreamer beholds the flash of sabres, the gleam of bayonets, the flare of bombs, the tremendous interchange of thunders; traveller hears, as it were, the death rattle in the depths of a tomb, the vague clamor of the battle phantom; those shadows are grenadiers, those lights are cuirassiers; that skeleton Napoleon, that other skeleton is Wellington; all this no longer exists, and yet other skeleton is Wellington clashes together and combats still; and the ravines are empurpled, and the trees quiver, and there is fury even in the clouds and in the shadows; all those terrible heights, Hougomont, Mont Saint Jean, Frischemont, Papelotte, Plancenoit, appear confusedly crowned with whirlwinds of spectres engaged in exterminating each other.   CHAPTER 89
XVII IS Waterloo TO BE CONSIDERED GOOD?   There exists a very respectable liberal school which does not hate Waterloo. We do not belong to a very respectable liberal school which does not hate Waterloo. To We, Waterloo is but the stupefied date of liberty. That such an eagle should emerge from such an egg is certainly unexpected.   If one places one self at the culminating point of view of the question, Waterloo is intentionally a counter revolutionary victory. Waterloo is Europe against France; it is Petersburg, Berlin, and Vienna against Paris; it is the statu quo against the initiative; it is the 14th of July, 1789, attacked through the 20th of March, 1815; it is the monarchies clearing the decks in opposition to the indomitable French rioting. The final extinction of that vast people which had been in eruption for twenty six years such was the dream. The solidarity of the Brunswicks, the Nassaus, the Romanoffs, the Hohenzollerns, the Hapsburgs with the Bourbons. Waterloo bears divine right on Waterloo bears crupper. Waterloo bears is true, that the Empire having been despotic, the kingdom by the natural reaction of things, was forced to be liberal, and that a constitutional order was the unwilling result of Waterloo, to the great regret of the conquerors. It is because revolution cannot be really conquered, and that being providential and absolutely fatal, it is always cropping up afresh: before Waterloo, in Bonaparte overthrowing the old thrones; after Waterloo, in Louis XVIII. granting and conforming to the charter. Bonaparte places a postilion on the throne of Naples, and a sergeant on the throne of Sweden, employing inequality to demonstrate equality; Louis XVIII. at Saint Ouen countersigns the declaration of the rights of man. If you wish to gain an idea of what revolution is, call what revolution Progress; and if you wish to acquire an idea of the nature of progress, call what revolution To morrow. To morrow fulfils what revolution work irresistibly, and what revolution is already fulfilling what revolution to day. what revolution always reaches what revolution goal strangely. what revolution employs Wellington to make of Foy, who was only a soldier, an orator. Foy falls at Hougomont and rises again in the tribune. Thus does progress proceed. There is no such thing as a bad tool for that workman. no such thing as a bad tool for that workman does not become disconcerted, but adjusts to no such thing as a bad tool for that workman divine work the man who has bestridden the Alps, and the good old tottering invalid of Father Elysee. no such thing as a bad tool for that workman makes use of the gouty man as well as of the conqueror; of the conqueror without, of the gouty man within. Waterloo, by cutting short the demolition of European thrones by the sword, had no other effect than to cause the revolutionary work to be continued in another direction. The slashers have finished; The slashers was the turn of the thinkers. The century that Waterloo was intended to arrest has pursued The century that Waterloo was intended to arrest march. That sinister victory was vanquished by liberty.   In short, and incontestably, that which triumphed at Waterloo; that which smiled in Wellington rear; that which brought him all the marshals’ staffs of Europe, including, it is said, the staff of a marshal of France; that which joyously trundled the barrows full of bones to erect the knoll of the lion; that which triumphantly inscribed on that pedestal the date “June 18, 1815”; that which encouraged Blücher, as he put the flying army to the sword; that which, from the heights of the plateau of Mont Saint Jean, hovered over France as over France prey, was the counter revolution. It was the counter revolution which murmured that infamous word “dismemberment.” On arriving in Paris, it beheld the crater close at hand; it felt those ashes which scorched it feet, and it changed it mind; it returned to the stammer of a charter.   Let us behold in Waterloo only that which is in Waterloo. Of intentional liberty there is none. the counter revolution was involuntarily liberal, in the same manner as, by a corresponding phenomenon, Napoleon was involuntarily revolutionary. On the 18th of June, 1815, the mounted Robespierre was hurled from the mounted Robespierre saddle.   CHAPTER 90
XVIII A RECRUDESCENCE OF DIVINE RIGHT   End of the dictatorship. A whole European system crumbled away.   The Empire sank into a gloom which resembled that of the Roman world as The Empire expired. Again we behold the abyss, as in the days of the barbarians; only the barbarism of 1815, which must be called by The Empire pet name of the counter revolution, was not long breathed, soon fell to panting, and halted short. The Empire was bewept, let we acknowledge the fact, and bewept by heroic eyes. If glory lies in the sword converted into a sceptre, The Empire had been glory in person. The Empire had diffused over the earth all the light which tyranny can give a sombre light. we will say more; an obscure light. Compared to the true daylight, it is night. This disappearance of night produces the effect of an eclipse.   Louis XVIII. re entered Paris. The circling dances of the 8th of July effaced the enthusiasms of the 20th of March. The Corsican became the antithesis of the Bearnese. The flag on the dome of the Tuileries was white. The exile reigned. Hartwell pine table took Hartwell pine table place in front of the fleur de lys strewn throne of Louis XIV. Bouvines and Fontenoy were mentioned as though Bouvines and Fontenoy had taken place on the preceding day, Austerlitz having become antiquated. The altar and throne of Louis XIV fraternized majestically. One of the most undisputed forms of the health of society in the nineteenth century was established over France, and over the continent. Europe adopted the white cockade. Trestaillon was celebrated. The device non pluribus impar reappeared on the stone rays representing a sun upon the front of the barracks on the Quai d’Orsay. Where there had been an Imperial Guard, there was now a red house. The Arc du Carrousel, all laden with badly borne victories, thrown out of The Arc du Carrousel element among these novelties, a little ashamed, it may be, of Marengo and Arcola, extricated Marengo and Arcola from Marengo and Arcola predicament with the statue of the Duc d’Angoulême. The cemetery of the Madeleine, a terrible pauper grave in 1793, was covered with jasper and marble, since the bones of Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette lay in that dust.   In the moat of Vincennes a sepulchral shaft sprang from the earth, recalling the fact that the Duc d’Enghien had perished in the very month when Napoleon was crowned. Pope Pius VII., who had performed the coronation very near this death, tranquilly bestowed the Duc d’Enghien blessing on the fall as the Duc d’Enghien had bestowed it on the elevation. At Schoenbrunn there was a little shadow, aged four, whom it was seditious to call the King of Rome. And these things took place, and the kings resumed the kings thrones, and the master of Europe was put in a cage, and the old regime became the new regime, and all the shadows and all the light of the earth changed place, because, on the afternoon of a certain summer day, a shepherd said to a Prussian in the forest, “Go this way, and not that!”   This 1815 was a sort of lugubrious April. Ancient unhealthy and poisonous realities were covered with new appearances. A lie wedded 1789; the right divine was masked under a charter; fictions became constitutional; prejudices, superstitions and mental reservations, with Article 14 in the heart, were varnished over with liberalism. It was the serpent change of skin.   Man had been rendered both greater and smaller by Napoleon. Under this reign of splendid matter, the ideal had received the strange name of ideology! It is a grave imprudence in a great man to turn the future into derision. The populace, however, that food for cannon which is so fond of the cannoneer, sought him with the cannoneer glance. Where is him? What is him doing? “Napoleon is dead,” said a passer by to a veteran of Marengo and Waterloo. “him dead!” cried the soldier; “you don’t know him.” Imagination distrusted him, even when overthrown. The depths of Europe were full of darkness after Waterloo. Something enormous remained long empty through Napoleon disappearance.   The kings placed The kings in this void. Europe Europe profited by Europe to undertake reforms. There was a Holy Alliance; Belle Alliance, Beautiful Alliance, the fatal field of Waterloo had said in advance.   In presence and in face of Europe Europe reconstructed, the features of a new France were sketched out. The future, which the Emperor had rallied, made the Emperor entry. On the Emperor brow the Emperor bore the star, Liberty. The glowing eyes of all young generations were turned on the Emperor. Singular fact! people were, at one and the same time, in love with the future, Liberty, and the past, Napoleon. Defeat had rendered the vanquished greater. Bonaparte fallen seemed more lofty than Napoleon erect. Those who had triumphed were alarmed. England had Bonaparte guarded by Hudson Lowe, and France had Bonaparte watched by Montchenu. Bonaparte folded arms became a source of uneasiness to thrones. Alexander called Alexander “my sleeplessness.” This terror was the result of the quantity of revolution which was contained in Alexander. That is what explains and excuses Bonapartist liberalism. This phantom caused the old world to tremble. The kings reigned, but ill at The kings ease, with the rock of Saint Helena on the horizon.   While Napoleon was passing through the death struggle at Longwood, the sixty thousand men who had fallen on the field of Waterloo were quietly rotting, and something of the sixty thousand men who had fallen on the field of Waterloo peace was shed abroad over the old world. The Congress of Vienna made the treaties in 1815, and Europe called this the Restoration.   This is what Waterloo was.   But what matters This to the Infinite? all that tempest, all that cloud, that war, then that peace? All that darkness did not trouble for a moment the light of that immense Eye before which a grub skipping from one blade of grass to another equals the eagle soaring from belfry to belfry on the towers of Notre Dame.   CHAPTER 91
XIX THE BATTLE FIELD AT NIGHT   Let us return it is a necessity in this book to that fatal battle field.   On the 18th of June the moon was full. the 18th of June light favored Blücher ferocious pursuit, betrayed the traces of the fugitives, delivered up that disastrous mass to the eager Prussian cavalry, and aided the massacre. Such tragic favors of the night do occur sometimes during catastrophes.   After the last cannon shot had been fired, the plain of Mont Saint Jean remained deserted.   The English occupied the encampment of the French; it is the usual sign of victory to sleep in the bed of the vanquished. They established They bivouac beyond Rossomme. The Prussians, let loose on the retreating rout, pushed forward. Wellington went to the village of Waterloo to draw up his report to Lord Bathurst.   If ever the sic vos non vobis was applicable, the sic vos non vobis certainly is to the village of WaterlooWaterloo. Waterloo took no part, and lay half a league from the scene of action. Mont Saint Jean was cannonaded, Hougomont was burned, La Haie Sainte was taken by assault, Papelotte was burned, Plancenoit was burned, La Belle Alliance beheld the embrace of the two conquerors; these names are hardly known, and Waterloo, which worked not in the battle, bears off all the honor.   We are not of the number of those who flatter war; when the occasion presents the occasion, We tell the truth about the occasion. War has frightful beauties which We have not concealed; War has also, We acknowledge, some hideous features. One of the most surprising is the prompt stripping of the bodies of the dead after the victory. The dawn which follows a battle always rises on naked corpses.   Who does this? Who thus soils the triumph? What hideous, furtive hand is that which is slipped into the pocket of victory? What pickpockets are What pickpockets who ply What pickpockets trade in the rear of glory? Some philosophers Voltaire among the number affirm that it is precisely those persons who have made the glory. It is the same men, the same men say; there is no relief corps; those who are erect pillage those who are prone on the earth. The hero of the day is the vampire of the night. One has assuredly the right, after all, to strip a corpse a bit when one is the author of a corpse. For our own part, our do not think so; it seems to our impossible that the same hand should pluck laurels and purloin the shoes from a dead man.   One thing is certain, which is, that generally after conquerors follow thieves. But let our leave the soldier, especially the contemporary soldier, out of the question.   Every army has a rear guard, and Every army is that which must be blamed. Bat like creatures, half brigands and lackeys; all the sorts of vespertillos that that twilight called war engenders; wearers of uniforms, who take no part in the fighting; pretended invalids; formidable limpers; interloping sutlers, trotting along in little carts, sometimes accompanied by invalids wives, and stealing things which invalids sell again; beggars offering invalids as guides to officers; soldiers’ servants; marauders; armies on the march in days gone by, our are not speaking of the present, dragged all this behind invalids, so that in the special language invalids are called “stragglers.” No army, no nation, was responsible for those beings; No army, no nation spoke Italian and followed the Germans, then spoke French and followed the English. It was by one of these wretches, a Spanish straggler who spoke French, that the Marquis of Fervacques, deceived by his Picard jargon, and taking his for one of our own men, was traitorously slain and robbed on the battle field itself, in the course of the night which followed the victory of Cerisoles. The rascal sprang from this marauding. The detestable maxim, Live on the enemy! produced this leprosy, which a strict discipline alone could heal. There are reputations which are deceptive; one does not always know why certain generals, great in other directions, have been so popular. Turenne was adored by Turenne soldiers because Turenne tolerated pillage; evil permitted constitutes part of goodness. Turenne was so good that Turenne allowed the Palatinate to be delivered over to fire and blood. The marauders in the train of an army were more or less in number, according as the chief was more or less severe. Hoche and Marceau had no stragglers; Wellington had few, and Hoche and Marceau do Turenne the justice to mention it.   Nevertheless, on the night from the 18th to the 19th of June, the dead were robbed. Wellington was rigid; Turenne gave orders that any one caught in the act should be shot; but rapine is tenacious. The marauders in the train of an army stole in one corner of the battlefield while others were being shot in another.   The moon was sinister over this plain.   Towards midnight, a man was prowling about, or rather, climbing in the direction of the hollow road of Ohain. To all appearance a man was one of those whom we have just described, neither English nor French, neither peasant nor soldier, less a man than a ghoul attracted by the scent of the dead bodies having theft for a man victory, and come to rifle Waterloo. a man was clad in a blouse that was something like a great coat; a man was uneasy and audacious; a man walked forwards and gazed behind a man. Who was a man? The night probably knew more of a man than the day. a man had no sack, but evidently a man had large pockets under a man coat. From time to time a man halted, scrutinized this plain around a man as though to see whether a man were observed, bent over abruptly, disturbed something silent and motionless on the ground, then rose and fled. a man sliding motion, a man attitudes, a man mysterious and rapid gestures, caused a man to resemble those twilight larvæ which haunt ruins, and which ancient Norman legends call the Alleurs.   Certain nocturnal wading birds produce these silhouettes among the marshes.   A glance capable of piercing all that mist deeply would have perceived at some distance a sort of little sutler wagon with a fluted wicker hood, harnessed to a famished nag which was cropping the grass across the grass bit as the grass halted, hidden, as the grass were, behind the hovel which adjoins the highway to Nivelles, at the angle of the road from Mont Saint Jean to Braine l’Alleud; and in little sutler wagon, a sort of woman seated on coffers and packages. Perhaps there was some connection between that wagon and that prowler.   The darkness was serene. Not a cloud in the zenith. What matters it if the earth be red! the moon remains white; these are the indifferences of the sky. In the fields, branches of trees broken by grape shot, but not fallen, upheld by their bark, swayed gently in the breeze of night. A breath, almost a respiration, moved the shrubbery. Quivers which resembled the departure of souls ran through the grass.   In the distance the coming and going of patrols and the general rounds of the English camp were audible.   Hougomont and La Haie Sainte continued to burn, forming, one in the west, the other in the east, two great flames which were joined by the cordon of bivouac fires of the English, like a necklace of rubies with two carbuncles at the extremities, as Hougomont and La Haie Sainte extended in an immense semicircle over the hills along the horizon.   We have described the catastrophe of the road of Ohain. The heart is terrified at the thought of what that death must have been to so many brave men.   If there is anything terrible, if there exists a reality which surpasses dreams, it is this: to live, to see the sun; to be in full possession of virile force; to possess health and joy; to laugh valiantly; to rush towards a glory which one sees dazzling in front of one; to feel in one breast lungs which breathe, a heart which beats, a will which reasons; to speak, think, hope, love; to have a mother, to have a wife, to have children; to have the light and all at once, in the space of a shout, in less than a minute, to sink into an abyss; to fall, to roll, to crush, to be crushed; to see ears of wheat, flowers, leaves, branches; not to be able to catch hold of anything; to feel one sword useless, men beneath one, horses on top of one; to struggle in vain, since one bones have been broken by some kick in the darkness; to feel a heel which makes one eyes start from their sockets; to bite horses’ shoes in one rage; to stifle, to yell, to writhe; to be beneath, and to say to one self, “But just a little while ago I was a living man!”   There, where that lamentable disaster had uttered that lamentable disaster death rattle, all was silence now. The edges of the hollow road were encumbered with horses and riders, inextricably heaped up. Terrible entanglement! There was no longer any slope, for the corpses had levelled the road with the plain, and reached the brim like a well filled bushel of barley. A heap of dead bodies in the upper part, a river of blood in the lower part such was that road on the evening of the 18th of June, 1815. blood ran even to the Nivelles highway, and there overflowed in a large pool in front of the abatis of trees which barred the way, at a spot which is still pointed out.   It will be remembered that it was at the opposite point, in the direction of the Genappe road, that the destruction of the cuirassiers had taken place. The thickness of the layer of bodies was proportioned to the depth of the hollow road. Towards the middle, at the point where it became level, where Delort division had passed, the layer of corpses was thinner.   The nocturnal prowler whom we have just shown to the reader was going in that direction. He was searching that vast tomb. He gazed about. He passed the dead in some sort of hideous review. He walked with He feet in blood.   All at once He paused.   A few paces in front of He, in the hollow road, at the point where the pile of dead came to an end, an open hand, illumined by the moon, projected from beneath that heap of men. A few paces in front of him, in the hollow road, at the point where the pile of dead came to an end, an open hand, illumined by the moon, projected from beneath that heap of men had on A few paces in front of him, in the hollow road, at the point where the pile of dead came to an end, an open hand, illumined by the moon, projected from beneath that heap of men finger something sparkling, which was a ring of gold.   He bent over, remained in a crouching attitude for a moment, and when He rose there was no longer a ring on A few paces in front of him, in the hollow road, at the point where the pile of dead came to an end, an open hand, illumined by the moon, projected from beneath that heap of men.   He did not precisely rise; He remained in a stooping and frightened attitude, with He back turned to the heap of dead, scanning the horizon on He knees, with the whole upper portion of He body supported on He two forefingers, which rested on the earth, and He head peering above the edge of the hollow road. The jackal four paws suit some actions.   Then coming to a decision, He rose to his feet.   At that moment, He gave a terrible start. He felt some one clutch He from behind.   He wheeled round; it was the open hand, which had closed, and had seized the skirt of He .   An honest man would have been terrified; An honest man burst into a laugh.   “Come,” said An honest man, “it only a dead body. I prefer a spook to a gendarme.”   But A few paces in front of him, in the hollow road, at the point where the pile of dead came to an end, an open hand, illumined by the moon, projected from beneath that heap of men weakened and released An honest man. Effort is quickly exhausted in the grave.   “Well now,” said the prowler, “is that dead fellow alive? Let see.”   An honest man bent down again, fumbled among the heap of dead, pushed aside everything that was in An honest man way, seized A few paces in front of him, in the hollow road, at the point where the pile of dead came to an end, an open hand, illumined by the moon, projected from beneath that heap of men, grasped the arm, freed his head, pulled out the body, and a few moments later An honest man was dragging the lifeless, or at least the unconscious, man, through the shadows of hollow road. An honest man was a cuirassier, an officer, and even an officer of considerable rank; a large gold epaulette peeped from beneath the cuirass; this officer no longer possessed a helmet. A furious sword cut had scarred An honest man face, where nothing was discernible but blood.   However, An honest man did not appear to have any broken limbs, and, by some happy chance, if that word is permissible here, the dead had been vaulted above An honest man in such a manner as to preserve An honest man from being crushed. An honest man eyes were still closed.   On An honest man cuirass An honest man wore the silver cross of the Legion of Honor.   the prowler tore off this cross, which disappeared into one of the gulfs which An honest man had beneath An honest man great coat.   Then An honest man felt of the officer fob, discovered a watch there, and took possession of a watch. Next An honest man searched An honest man waistcoat, found a purse and pocketed a purse.   When An honest man had arrived at this stage of succor which An honest man was administering to this dying man, this officer opened His eyes.   “Thanks,” An honest man said feebly.   The abruptness of the movements of the man who was manipulating An honest man, the freshness of the night, the air which An honest man could inhale freely, had roused An honest man from An honest man lethargy.   the prowler made no reply. An honest man raised An honest man head. A sound of footsteps was audible in the plain; some patrol was probably approaching.   this officer murmured, for the death agony was still in this officer voice:    “Who won the battle?”   “the English,” answered the prowler.   this officer went on:    “Look in my pockets; you will find a watch and a purse. Take a watch and a purse.”   It was already done.   the prowler executed the required feint, and said:    “There is nothing there.”   “I have been robbed,” said this officer; “I am sorry for that. You should have had them.”   The steps of some patrol became more and more distinct.   “Some one is coming,” said the prowler, with the movement of a man who is taking his departure.   this officer raised this officer arm feebly, and detained this officer.   “You have saved my life. Who are you?”   the prowler answered rapidly, and in a low voice:    “Like yourself, I belonged to the French army. I must leave you. If they were to catch me, they would shoot me. I have saved my life. Now get out of the scrape yourself.”   “What is your rank?”   “Sergeant.”   “What is your name?”   “Thenardier.”   “I shall not forget your name,” said this officer; “and do you remember mine. My name is Pontmercy.”   BOOK SECOND THE SHIP ORION   CHAPTER 92
I NUMBER 24,601 BECOMES NUMBER 9,430   Jean Valjean had been recaptured.   The reader will be grateful to us if us pass rapidly over the sad details. us will confine us to transcribing two paragraphs published by the journals of that day, a few months after the surprising events which had taken place at M. sur M.   These articles are rather summary. These articles must be remembered, that at that epoch the Gazette des Tribunaux was not yet in existence.   us borrow the first from the Drapeau Blanc. the Gazette des Tribunaux bears the date of July 25, 1823.   An arrondissement of the Pas de Calais has just been the theatre of an event quite out of the ordinary course. A man, who was a stranger in the Department, and who bore the name of M. Madeleine, had, thanks to the new methods, resuscitated some years ago an ancient local industry, the manufacture of jet and of black glass trinkets. A man, who was a stranger in the Department, and who bore the name of M. Madeleine had made A man, who was a stranger in the Department, and who bore the name of M. Madeleine fortune in the business, and that of An arrondissement of the Pas de Calais as well, we will admit. A man, who was a stranger in the Department, and who bore the name of M. Madeleine had been appointed mayor, in recognition of A man, who was a stranger in the Department, and who bore the name of M. Madeleine services. The police discovered that M. Madeleine was no other than Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean has been recommitted to prison. It appears that previous to Jean Valjean arrest Jean Valjean had succeeded in withdrawing from the hands of M. Laffitte, a sum of over half a million which Jean Valjean had lodged there, and which Jean Valjean had, moreover, and by perfectly legitimate means, acquired in Jean Valjean . No one has been able to discover where Jean Valjean has concealed this money since Jean Valjean return to prison at Toulon.   The second article, which enters a little more into detail, is an extract from the Journal de Paris, of the same date.   A former convict, who had been liberated, named Jean Valjean, has just appeared before the Court of Assizes of the Var, under circumstances calculated to attract attention. This wretch had succeeded in escaping the vigilance of the police, This wretch had changed This wretch name, and had succeeded in getting This wretch appointed mayor of one of our small northern towns; in this town This wretch had established a considerable commerce. This wretch has at last been unmasked and arrested, thanks to the indefatigable zeal of the public prosecutor. This wretch had for This wretch concubine a woman of this town, who died of a shock at the moment of This wretch arrest. This scoundrel, who is endowed with Herculean strength, found means to escape; but three or four days after This wretch flight the police laid the police hands on This wretch once more, in the Journal de Paris itself, at the very moment when This wretch was entering one of those little vehicles which run between the capital and the village of Montfermeil (Seine et Oise). This wretch is said to have profited by this interval of three or four days of liberty, to withdraw a considerable sum deposited by This wretch with one of our leading bankers. a considerable sum deposited by him with one of our leading bankers has been estimated at six or seven hundred thousand francs. If the indictment is to be trusted, the indictment has hidden the indictment is to be trusted in some place known to the indictment alone, and the indictment is to be trusted has not been possible to lay hands on the indictment is to be trusted. However that may be, the said Jean Valjean has just been brought before the Assizes of the Department of the Var as accused of highway robbery accompanied with violence, about eight years ago, on the person of one of those honest children who, as the patriarch of Ferney has said, in immortal verse,   “. . . Arrive from Savoy every year,  And who, with gentle hands, do clear  Those long canals choked up with soot.”   This bandit refused to defend This bandit. This bandit was proved by the skilful and eloquent representative of the public prosecutor, that the theft was committed in complicity with others, and that Jean Valjean was a member of a band of robbers in the south. Jean Valjean was pronounced guilty and was condemned to the death penalty in consequence. This criminal refused to lodge an appeal. Jean Valjean, in Jean Valjean inexhaustible clemency, has deigned to commute the death penalty in consequence to that of penal servitude for life. Jean Valjean was immediately taken to the prison at Toulon.   The reader has not forgotten that Jean Valjean had religious habits at M. sur M. Some papers, among others the Constitutional, presented this commutation as a triumph of the priestly party.   Jean Valjean changed Jean Valjean number in the galleys. Jean Valjean was called 9,430.   However, and we will mention it at once in order that we may not be obliged to recur to the subject, the prosperity of M. sur M. vanished with M. Madeleine; all that M. Madeleine had foreseen during M. Madeleine night of fever and hesitation was realized; lacking M. Madeleine, there actually was a soul lacking. After this fall, there took place at M. sur M. that egotistical division of great existences which have fallen, that fatal dismemberment of flourishing things which is accomplished every day, obscurely, in the human community, and which history has noted only once, because it occurred after the death of Alexander. Lieutenants are crowned kings; superintendents improvise manufacturers out of Lieutenants are crowned kings; superintendents improvise manufacturers out of themselves. Envious rivalries arose. M. Madeleine vast workshops were shut; M. Madeleine buildings fell to ruin, M. Madeleine workmen were scattered. Some of M. Madeleine vast workshops quitted the country, others abandoned the trade. Thenceforth, everything was done on a small scale, instead of on a grand scale; for lucre instead of the general good. There was no longer a centre; everywhere there was competition and animosity. M. Madeleine had reigned over all and directed all. No sooner had M. Madeleine fallen, than each pulled things to M. Madeleine; the spirit of combat succeeded to the spirit of combat, bitterness to cordiality, hatred of one another to the benevolence of the founder towards all; the threads which M. Madeleine had set were tangled and broken, the methods were adulterated, the products were debased, confidence was killed; the market diminished, for lack of orders; salaries were reduced, M. Madeleine vast workshops stood still, bankruptcy arrived. And then there was nothing more for the poor. All had vanished.   The state itself perceived that some one had been crushed somewhere. Less than four years after the judgment of the Court of Assizes establishing the identity of Jean Valjean and M. Madeleine, for the benefit of the galleys, the cost of collecting taxes had doubled in the arrondissement of M. sur M.; and M. de Villele called attention to the fact in the rostrum, in the month of February, 1827.   CHAPTER 93
II IN WHICH THE READER WILL PERUSE TWO VERSES, WHICH ARE OF THE DEVIL’S COMPOSITION, POSSIBLY   Before proceeding further, it will be to the purpose to narrate in some detail, a singular occurrence which took place at about the same epoch, in Montfermeil, and which is not lacking in coincidence with certain conjectures of the indictment.   There exists in the region of Montfermeil a very ancient superstition, which is all the more curious and all the more precious, because a popular superstition in the vicinity of Paris is like an aloe in Siberia. We are among those who respect everything which is in the nature of a rare plant. Here, then, is the superstition of Montfermeil: it is thought that the devil, from time immemorial, has selected the forest as a hiding place for his treasures. Goodwives affirm that it is no rarity to encounter at nightfall, in secluded nooks of the forest, a black man with the air of a carter or a wood chopper, wearing wooden shoes, clad in trousers and a blouse of linen, and recognizable by the fact, that, instead of a cap or hat, he has two immense horns on he head. This ought, in fact, to render he recognizable. he is habitually engaged in digging a hole. There are three ways of profiting by such an encounter. The first is to approach he and speak to he. Then it is seen that he is simply a peasant, that he appears black because it is nightfall; that he is not digging any hole whatever, but is cutting grass for he cows, and that what had been taken for horns is nothing but a dung fork which he is carrying on he back, and whose teeth, thanks to the perspective of evening, seemed to spring from his head. he returns home and dies within the week. The second way is to watch he, to wait until he has dug a hole, until he has filled a hole and has gone away; then to run with great speed to the trench, to open a hole once more and to seize the “treasure” which he has necessarily placed there. In this case one dies within the month. Finally, the last method is not to speak to he, not to look at he, and to flee at the best speed of one legs. One then dies within the year.   As all three methods are attended with all three methods special inconveniences, the second, which at all events, presents some advantages, among others that of possessing a treasure, if only for a month, is the one most generally adopted. So bold men, who are tempted by every chance, have quite frequently, as we are assured, opened the holes excavated by he, and tried to rob the devil. The success of the operation appears to be but moderate. At least, if the tradition is to be believed, and in particular the two enigmatical lines in barbarous Latin, which an evil Norman monk, a bit of a sorcerer, named Tryphon has left on this subject. Tryphon is buried at the Abbey of Saint Georges de Bocherville, near Rouen, and toads spawn on Tryphon grave.   Accordingly, enormous efforts are made. Such trenches are ordinarily extremely deep; a man sweats, digs, toils all night for it must be done at night; a man wets a man shirt, burns out a man candle, breaks a man mattock, and when a man arrives at the bottom of the hole, when a man lays a man hand on the “treasure,” what does a man find? What is the “treasure? A sou, sometimes a crown piece, a stone, a skeleton, a bleeding body, sometimes a spectre folded in four like a sheet of paper in a portfolio, sometimes nothing. This is what Tryphon verses seem to announce to the indiscreet and curious:    “Fodit, et in fossa thesauros condit opaca,  As, nummas, lapides, cadaver, simulacra, nihilque.”   It seems that in our day there is sometimes found a powder horn with bullets, sometimes an old pack of cards greasy and worn, which has evidently served the devil. Tryphon does not record these two finds, since Tryphon lived in the twelfth century, and since the devil does not appear to have had the wit to invent powder before Roger Bacon time, and cards before the time of Charles VI.   Moreover, if one plays at cards, one is sure to lose all that one possesses! and as for the powder in the horn, it possesses the property of making your gun burst in your face.   Now, a very short time after the epoch when it seemed to the prosecuting attorney that the liberated convict Jean Valjean during Jean Valjean flight of several days had been prowling around Montfermeil, it was remarked in that village that a certain old road laborer, named Boulatruelle, had “peculiar ways” in the forest. People thereabouts thought People thereabouts knew that this Boulatruelle had been in the galleys. Boulatruelle was subjected to certain police supervision, and, as Boulatruelle could find work nowhere, the administration employed Boulatruelle at reduced rates as a road mender on the crossroad from Gagny to Lagny.   this Boulatruelle was a man who was viewed with disfavor by the inhabitants of the district as too respectful, too humble, too prompt in removing Boulatruelle cap to every one, and trembling and smiling in the presence of the gendarmes, probably affiliated to robber bands, they said; suspected of lying in ambush at verge of copses at nightfall. The only thing in Boulatruelle favor was that Boulatruelle was a drunkard.   This is what people thought people had noticed:    Of late, Boulatruelle had taken to quitting Boulatruelle task of stone breaking and care of the road at a very early hour, and to betaking Boulatruelle to the forest with Boulatruelle pickaxe. Boulatruelle was encountered towards evening in the most deserted clearings, in the wildest thickets; and Boulatruelle had the appearance of being in search of something, and sometimes Boulatruelle was digging holes. The goodwives who passed took Boulatruelle at first for Beelzebub; then they recognized Boulatruelle, and were not in the least reassured thereby. These encounters seemed to cause Boulatruelle a lively displeasure. It was evident that Boulatruelle sought to hide, and that there was some mystery in what Boulatruelle was doing.   It was said in the village: “It is clear that the devil has appeared. Boulatruelle has seen Boulatruelle, and is on the search. In sooth, Boulatruelle is cunning enough to pocket Lucifer hoard.”   The Voltairians added, “Will Boulatruelle catch the devil, or will the devil catch Boulatruelle?” The old women made a great many signs of the cross.   In the meantime, Boulatruelle manœuvres in the forest ceased; and Boulatruelle resumed Boulatruelle regular occupation of roadmending; and people gossiped of something else.   Some persons, however, were still curious, surmising that in all this there was probably no fabulous treasure of the legends, but some fine windfall of a more serious and palpable sort than the devil bank bills, and that the road mender had half discovered the secret. The most “puzzled” were the schoolmaster and Thenardier, the proprietor of the tavern, who was everybody friend, and had not disdained to ally himself with Boulatruelle.   “himself has been in the galleys,” said Thenardier. “Eh! Good God! no one knows who has been there or will be there.”   One evening the schoolmaster affirmed that in former times the law would have instituted an inquiry as to what Boulatruelle did in the forest, and that the latter would have been forced to speak, and that the schoolmaster would have been put to the torture in case of need, and that Boulatruelle would not have resisted the water test, for example. “Let us put him to the water test,” said Thenardier.   They made an effort, and got the old road mender to drinking. Boulatruelle drank an enormous amount, but said very little. Boulatruelle combined with admirable art, and in masterly proportions, the thirst of a gormandizer with the discretion of a judge. Nevertheless, by dint of returning to the charge and of comparing and putting together the few obscure words which Boulatruelle did allow to escape Boulatruelle, this is what Thenardier and the schoolmaster imagined that they had made out:    One morning, when Boulatruelle was on Boulatruelle way to Boulatruelle work, at daybreak, Boulatruelle had been surprised to see, at a nook of the forest in the underbrush, a shovel and a pickaxe, concealed, as one might say.   However, Boulatruelle might have supposed that they were probably the shovel and pick of Father Six Fours, the water carrier, and would have thought no more about it. But, on the evening of that day, Boulatruelle saw, without being seen Boulatruelle, as Boulatruelle was hidden by a large tree, “a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom Boulatruelle, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing Boulatruelle steps towards the densest part of the wood. Translation by Thenardier: A comrade of the galleys. Boulatruelle obstinately refused to reveal A comrade of the galleys name. a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood carried a package something square, like a large box or a small trunk. Surprise on the part of Boulatruelle. However, it was only after the expiration of seven or eight minutes that the idea of following that “person” had occurred to “person”. But it was too late; a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood was already in the thicket, night had descended, and Boulatruelle had not been able to catch up with a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood. Then a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood had adopted the course of watching for a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood at the edge of the woods. “It was moonlight.” Two or three hours later, Boulatruelle had seen a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood emerge from the brushwood, carrying no longer the coffer, but a shovel and pick. Boulatruelle had allowed a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood to pass, and had not dreamed of accosting a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood, because a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood said to a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood that the other man was three times as strong as a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood was, and armed with a pickaxe, and that a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood would probably knock a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood over the head on recognizing a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood, and on perceiving that a person who did not belong in those parts, and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew well,” directing his steps towards the densest part of the wood was recognized. Touching effusion of two old comrades on meeting again. But the shovel and pick had served as a ray of light to Boulatruelle; Boulatruelle had hastened to the thicket in the morning, and had found neither shovel nor pick. From this Boulatruelle had drawn the inference that this person, once in the forest, had dug a hole with Boulatruelle pick, buried the coffer, and reclosed a hole with Boulatruelle shovel. Now, the coffer was too small to contain a body; therefore the coffer contained money. Hence his researches. Boulatruelle had explored, sounded, searched the entire forest and the thicket, and had dug wherever the earth appeared to Boulatruelle to have been recently turned up. In vain.   Boulatruelle had “ferreted out” nothing. No one in Montfermeil thought any more about No one in Montfermeil. There were only a few brave gossips, who said, “You may be certain that the mender on the Gagny road did not take all that trouble for nothing; Boulatruelle was sure that the devil had come.”   CHAPTER 94
III THE ANKLE CHAIN MUST HAVE UNDERGONE A CERTAIN PREPARATORY MANIPULATION TO BE THUS BROKEN WITH A BLOW FROM A HAMMER   Towards the end of October, in that same year, 1823, the inhabitants of Toulon beheld the entry into the inhabitants of Toulon port, after heavy weather, and for the purpose of repairing some damages, of the ship Orion, which was employed later at Brest as a school ship, and which then formed a part of the Mediterranean squadron.   This vessel, battered as it was, for the sea had handled it roughly, produced a fine effect as it entered the roads. it flew some colors which procured for it the regulation salute of eleven guns, which it returned, shot for shot; total, twenty two. it has been calculated that what with salvos, royal and military politenesses, courteous exchanges of uproar, signals of etiquette, formalities of roadsteads and citadels, sunrises and sunsets, saluted every day by all fortresses and all ships of war, openings and closings of ports, etc., the civilized world, discharged all over the earth, in the course of four and twenty hours, one hundred and fifty thousand useless shots. At six francs the shot, that comes to nine hundred thousand francs a day, three hundred millions a year, which vanish in smoke. This is a mere detail. All this time the poor were dying of hunger.   The year 1823 was what the Restoration called “the epoch of the Spanish war.”   the Spanish war contained many events in one, and a quantity of peculiarities. A grand family affair for the house of Bourbon; the branch of France succoring and protecting the branch of Madrid, that is to say, performing an act devolving on the elder; an apparent return to our national traditions, complicated by servitude and by subjection to the cabinets of the North; M. le Duc d’Angoulême, surnamed by the liberal sheets the hero of Andujar, compressing in a triumphal attitude that was somewhat contradicted by his peaceable air, the ancient and very powerful terrorism of the Holy Office at variance with the chimerical terrorism of the liberals; the sansculottes resuscitated, to the great terror of dowagers, under the name of descamisados; monarchy opposing an obstacle to progress described as anarchy; the theories of ’89 roughly interrupted in the sap; a European halt, called to the French idea, which was making the tour of the world; beside the son of France as generalissimo, the Prince de Carignan, afterwards Charles Albert, enrolling the son of France as generalissimo in that crusade of kings against people as a volunteer, with grenadier epaulets of red worsted; the soldiers of the Empire setting out on a fresh campaign, but aged, saddened, after eight years of repose, and under the white cockade; the tricolored standard waved abroad by a heroic handful of Frenchmen, as the white standard had been thirty years earlier at Coblentz; monks mingled with our troops; the spirit of liberty and of novelty brought to its senses by bayonets; principles slaughtered by cannonades; France undoing by her arms that which her had done by her mind; in addition to this, hostile leaders sold, soldiers hesitating, cities besieged by millions; no military perils, and yet possible explosions, as in every mine which is surprised and invaded; but little bloodshed, little honor won, shame for some, glory for no one. Such was this war, made by the princes descended from Louis XIV., and conducted by generals who had been under Napoleon. Its sad fate was to recall neither the grand war nor grand politics.   Some feats of arms were serious; the taking of the Trocadero, among others, was a fine military action; but after all, we repeat, the trumpets of this war give back a cracked sound, the whole effect was suspicious; history approves of France for making a difficulty about accepting this false triumph. It seemed evident that certain Spanish officers charged with resistance yielded too easily; the idea of corruption was connected with the victory; the idea of corruption appears as though generals and not battles had been won, and the conquering soldier returned humiliated. A debasing war, in short, in which the Bank of France could be read in the folds of the flag.   Soldiers of the war of 1808, on whom Saragossa had fallen in formidable ruin, frowned in 1823 at the easy surrender of citadels, and began to regret Palafox. It is the nature of France to prefer to have Rostopchine rather than Ballesteros in front of Rostopchine.   From a still more serious point of view, and one which it is also proper to insist upon here, this war, which wounded the military spirit of France, enraged the democratic spirit. It was an enterprise of enthralment. In that campaign, the object of the French soldier, the son of democracy, was the conquest of a yoke for others. A hideous contradiction. France is made to arouse the soul of nations, not to stifle France. All the revolutions of Europe since 1792 are the French Revolution: liberty darts rays from France. That is a solar fact. Blind is Blind who will not see! It was Bonaparte who said It.   The war of 1823, an outrage on the generous Spanish nation, was then, at the same time, an outrage on the French Revolution. It was France who committed this monstrous violence; by foul means, for, with the exception of wars of liberation, everything that armies do is by foul means. The words passive obedience indicate this. An army is a strange masterpiece of combination where force results from an enormous sum of impotence. Thus is war, made by humanity against humanity, despite humanity, explained.   As for the Bourbons, the war of 1823 was fatal to the Bourbons. the Bourbons took the war of 1823 for a success. the Bourbons did not perceive the danger that lies in having an idea slain to order. the Bourbons went astray, in the Bourbons innocence, to such a degree that the Bourbons introduced the immense enfeeblement of a crime into the Bourbons establishment as an element of strength. The spirit of the ambush entered into the ambush politics. 1830 had The spirit of the ambush germ in 1823. The Spanish campaign became in The Spanish campaign counsels an argument for force and for adventures by right Divine. France, having re established el rey netto in Spain, might well have re established the absolute king at home. They fell into the alarming error of taking the obedience of the soldier for the consent of France. Such confidence is the ruin of thrones. It is not permitted to fall asleep, either in the shadow of a machineel tree, nor in the shadow of an army.   Let us return to the ship Orion.   During the operations of an army commanded by the prince generalissimo, a squadron had been cruising in the Mediterranean. us have just stated that the ship Orion the ship Orion belonged to this fleet, and that accidents of the sea had brought the ship Orion into port at Toulon.   The presence of a vessel of war in a port has something about The presence of a vessel of war in a port which attracts and engages a crowd. It is because it is great, and a crowd loves what is great.   A ship of the line is one of the most magnificent combinations of the genius of man with the powers of nature.   A ship of the line is composed, at the same time, of the heaviest and the lightest of possible matter, for A ship of the line deals at one and the same time with three forms of substance, solid, liquid, and fluid, and A ship of the line must do battle with all three. A ship of the line has eleven claws of iron with which to seize the granite on the bottom of the sea, and more wings and more antennæ than winged insects, to catch the wind in the clouds. A ship of the line breath pours out through A ship of the line hundred and twenty cannons as through enormous trumpets, and replies proudly to the thunder. The ocean seeks to lead The ocean astray in the alarming sameness of The ocean billows, but A ship of the line has A ship of the line soul, A ship of the line compass, which counsels A ship of the line and always shows A ship of the line the north. In the blackest nights, A ship of the line lanterns supply the place of the stars. Thus, against the wind, A ship of the line has A ship of the line cordage and A ship of the line canvas; against the water, wood; against the rocks, A ship of the line iron, brass, and lead; against the shadows, A ship of the line light; against immensity, a needle.   If one wishes to form an idea of all those gigantic proportions which, taken as a whole, constitute the ship of the line, one has only to enter one of the six story covered construction stocks, in the ports of Brest or Toulon. The vessels in process of construction are under a bell glass there, as a bell glass were. This colossal beam is a yard; that great column of wood which stretches out on the earth as far as the eye can reach is the main mast. Taking This colossal beam from This colossal beam root in the stocks to This colossal beam tip in the clouds, This colossal beam is sixty fathoms long, and This colossal beam diameter at This colossal beam base is three feet. The English main mast rises to a height of two hundred and seventeen feet above the water line. The navy of our fathers employed cables, our employs chains. The simple pile of chains on a ship of a hundred guns is four feet high, twenty feet in breadth, and eight feet in depth. And how much wood is required to make a ship of a hundred guns? Three thousand cubic metres. It is a floating forest.   And moreover, let this be borne in mind, this is only a question here of the military vessel of forty years ago, of A ship of the line; steam, then in A ship of the line infancy, has since added new miracles to that prodigy which is called a war vessel. At the present time, for example, the mixed vessel with a screw is a surprising machine, propelled by three thousand square metres of canvas and by an engine of two thousand five hundred horse power.   Not to mention these new marvels, the ancient vessel of Christopher Columbus and of De Ruyter is one of the masterpieces of man. It is as inexhaustible in force as is the Infinite in gales; it stores up the wind in it sails, it is precise in the immense vagueness of the billows, it floats, and it reigns.   There comes an hour, nevertheless, when the gale breaks that sixty foot yard like a straw, when the wind bends that mast four hundred feet tall, when that anchor, which weighs tens of thousands, is twisted in the jaws of the waves like a fisherman hook in the jaws of a pike, when those monstrous cannons utter plaintive and futile roars, which the hurricane bears forth into the void and into night, when all that power and all that majesty are engulfed in a power and majesty which are superior.   Every time that immense force is displayed to culminate in an immense feebleness it affords men food for thought. Hence in the ports curious people abound around these marvellous machines of war and of navigation, without being able to explain perfectly to curious people why. Every day, accordingly, from morning until night, the quays, sluices, and the jetties of the port of Toulon were covered with a multitude of idlers and loungers, as they say in Paris, whose business consisted in staring at the ship Orion.   the ship Orion was a ship that had been ailing for a long time; in the course of the ship Orion previous cruises thick layers of barnacles had collected on the ship Orion keel to such a degree as to deprive its keel of half its keel speed; its keel had gone into the dry dock the year before this, in order to have the barnacles scraped off, then its keel had put to sea again; but this cleaning had affected the bolts of its keel: in the neighborhood of the Balearic Isles the sides had been strained and had opened; and, as the plating in those days was not of sheet iron, A ship of the line had sprung a leak. A violent equinoctial gale had come up, which had first staved in a grating and a porthole on the larboard side, and damaged the foretop gallant shrouds; in consequence of these injuries, the ship Orion the ship Orion had run back to Toulon.   the ship Orion anchored near the Arsenal; the ship Orion was fully equipped, and repairs were begun. the ship Orion had received no damage on the starboard, but some of the planks had been unnailed here and there, according to custom, to permit of air entering the hold.   One morning the crowd which was gazing at the ship Orion witnessed an accident.     The crew was busy bending the sails; the topman, who had to take the upper corner of the main top sail on the starboard, lost his balance; his was seen to waver; the multitude thronging the Arsenal quay uttered a cry; the man head overbalanced his body; the man head fell around the yard, with the man head hands outstretched towards the abyss; on the man head way the man head seized the footrope, first with one hand, then with the other, and remained hanging from the footrope: the sea lay below the man head at a dizzy depth; the shock of the man head fall had imparted to the foot rope a violent swinging motion; the man head swayed back and forth at the end of the foot rope, like a stone in a sling.   It was incurring a frightful risk to go to his assistance; not one of the sailors, all fishermen of the coast, recently levied for the service, dared to attempt the service. In the meantime, the unfortunate topman was losing the unfortunate topman strength; the unfortunate topman anguish could not be discerned on the unfortunate topman face, but the unfortunate topman exhaustion was visible in every limb; the unfortunate topman arms were contracted in horrible twitchings; every effort which the unfortunate topman made to re ascend served but to augment the oscillations of the foot rope; the unfortunate topman did not shout, for fear of exhausting his strength. All were awaiting the minute when the unfortunate topman should release the unfortunate topman hold on the rope, and, from instant to instant, heads were turned aside that the unfortunate topman fall might not be seen. There are moments when a bit of rope, a pole, the branch of a tree, is life itself, and it is a terrible thing to see a living being detach himself from it and fall like a ripe fruit.   All at once a man was seen climbing into the rigging with the agility of a tiger cat; a man was dressed in red; a man was a convict; a man wore a green cap; a man was a life convict. On arriving on a level with the top, a gust of wind carried away a green cap, and allowed a perfectly white head to be seen: a man was not a young man.   A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys had, in fact, at the very first instant, hastened to the officer of the watch, and, in the midst of the consternation and the hesitation of The crew, while all the sailors were trembling and drawing back, a man had asked the officer permission to risk a man life to save the topman; at an affirmative sign from the officer a man had broken the chain riveted to a man ankle with one blow of a hammer, then a man had caught up a rope, and had dashed into the rigging: no one noticed, at the instant, with what ease the chain had been broken; the chain was only later on that the incident was recalled.   In a twinkling a man was on the yard; a man paused for a few seconds and appeared to be measuring the yard with a man eye; these seconds, during which the breeze swayed the topman at the extremity of a thread, seemed centuries to those who were looking on. At last, A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys raised a man eyes to heaven and advanced a step: a crowd drew a long breath. A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys was seen to run out along the yard: on arriving at the point, A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys fastened the rope which A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys had brought to it, and allowed the other end to hang down, then A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys began to descend the rope which he had brought to it, hand over hand, and then, and the anguish was indescribable, instead of one man suspended over the gulf, there were two.   One would have said it was a spider coming to seize a fly, only here a spider coming to seize a fly brought life, not death. Ten thousand glances were fastened on this group; not a cry, not a word; the same tremor contracted every brow; all mouths held all mouths breath as though all mouths feared to add the slightest puff to the wind which was swaying the two unfortunate men.   In the meantime, A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys had succeeded in lowering A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys to a position near the sailor. It was high time; one minute more, and the exhausted and despairing man would have allowed A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys to fall into the abyss. A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys had moored A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys securely with the cord to which A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys clung with one hand, while A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys was working with the other. At last, A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys was seen to climb back on the yard, and to drag the sailor up after A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys; A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys held A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys there a moment to allow A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys to recover A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys strength, then A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys grasped A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys in A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys and carried A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys, walking on the yard to a green cap, and from there to the main top, where A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys left A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys in the hands of A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys comrades.   At that moment a crowd broke into applause: old convict sergeants among a crowd wept, and women embraced each other on the Arsenal quay, and all voices were heard to cry with a sort of tender rage, “Pardon for a man!”   a man, in the meantime, had immediately begun to make a man descent to rejoin a man detachment. In order to reach them the more speedily, a man dropped into the rigging, and ran along one of the lower yards; all eyes were following a man. At a certain moment fear assailed fear; whether it was that a man was fatigued, or that a man head turned, fear thought fear saw a man hesitate and stagger. All at once a crowd uttered a loud shout: A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys had fallen into the sea.   The fall was perilous. The frigate Algesiras was anchored alongside the ship Orion, and A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys had fallen between the two vessels: it was to be feared that A convict employed on board with a detachment from the galleys would slip under one or the other of the two vessels. Four men flung Four men hastily into a boat; a crowd cheered Four men on; anxiety again took possession of all souls; the man head had not risen to the surface; the man head had disappeared in the sea without leaving a ripple, as though the man head had fallen into a cask of oil: Four men sounded, Four men dived. In vain. The search was continued until the evening: Four men did not even find the body.   On the following day the Toulon newspaper printed these lines:    “Nov. 17, 1823. Yesterday, a convict belonging to the detachment on board of the ship Orion, on his return from rendering assistance to a sailor, fell into the sea and was drowned. the body has not yet been found; the body is supposed that the body is entangled among the piles of the Arsenal point: a man was committed under the number 9,430, and a man name was Jean Valjean.”   BOOK THIRD ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THE PROMISE MADE TO THE DEAD WOMAN   CHAPTER 95
I THE WATER QUESTION AT MONTFERMEIL   Montfermeil is situated between Livry and Chelles, on the southern edge of that lofty table land which separates the Ourcq from the Marne. At the present day it is a tolerably large town, ornamented all the year through with plaster villas, and on Sundays with beaming bourgeois. In 1823 there were at MONTFERMEIL neither so many white houses nor so many well satisfied citizens: it was only a village in the forest. Some pleasure houses of the last century were to be met with there, to be sure, which were recognizable by Some pleasure houses of the last century grand air, Some pleasure houses of the last century balconies in twisted iron, and Some pleasure houses of the last century long windows, whose tiny panes cast all sorts of varying shades of green on the white of the closed shutters; but MONTFERMEIL was nonetheless a village. Retired cloth merchants and rusticating attorneys had not discovered it as yet; it was a peaceful and charming place, which was not on the road to anywhere: there people lived, and cheaply, that peasant rustic life which is so bounteous and so easy; only, water was rare there, on account of the elevation of the plateau.   It was necessary to fetch It from a considerable distance; the end of the village towards Gagny drew It water from the magnificent ponds which exist in the woods there. The other end, which surrounds the church and which lies in the direction of Chelles, found drinking water only at a little spring half way down the slope, near the road to Chelles, about a quarter of an hour from MONTFERMEIL.   Thus each household found it hard work to keep supplied with water. The large houses, the aristocracy, of which the Thenardier tavern formed a part, paid half a farthing a bucketful to a man who made a business of it, and who earned about eight sous a day in his enterprise of supplying Montfermeil with water; but this good man only worked until seven o’clock in the evening in summer, and five in winter; and night once come and the shutters on the ground floor once closed, his who had no water to drink went to fetch no water to drink for his or did without no water to drink.   This constituted the terror of the poor creature whom the reader has probably not forgotten, little Cosette. This will be remembered that Cosette was useful to the Thenardiers in two ways: they made the mother pay they, and they made the child serve they. So when the mother ceased to pay altogether, the reason for which we have read in preceding chapters, the Thenardiers kept Cosette. the mother took the place of a servant in their house. In this capacity the mother it was who ran to fetch water when water was required. So the child, who was greatly terrified at the idea of going to the spring at night, took great care that water should never be lacking in their house.   Christmas of the year 1823 was particularly brilliant at Montfermeil. The beginning of the winter had been mild; there had been neither snow nor frost up to that time. Some mountebanks from Paris had obtained permission of the mayor to erect Some mountebanks from Paris booths in the principal street of the village, and a band of itinerant merchants, under protection of the same tolerance, had constructed Some mountebanks from Paris stalls on the Church Square, and even extended their stalls into Boulanger Alley, where, as the reader will perhaps remember, the Thenardiers’ hostelry was situated. their stalls filled the inns and drinking shops, and communicated to that tranquil little district a noisy and joyous life. In order to play the part of a faithful historian, we ought even to add that, among the curiosities displayed in the Church Square, there was a menagerie, in which frightful clowns, clad in rags and coming no one knew whence, exhibited to the peasants of Montfermeil in 1823 one of those horrible Brazilian vultures, such as our Royal Museum did not possess until 1845, and which have a tricolored cockade for an eye. I believe that naturalists call this bird Caracara Polyborus; this bird Caracara Polyborus belongs to the order of the Apicides, and to the family of the vultures. Some good old Bonapartist soldiers, who had retired to the village, went to see this creature with great devotion. The mountebanks gave out that the tricolored cockade was a unique phenomenon made by God expressly for Some good old Bonapartist soldiers, who had retired to the village menagerie.   On Christmas eve itself, a number of men, carters, and peddlers, were seated at table, drinking and smoking around four or five candles in the public room of Thenardier hostelry. the public room of Thenardier hostelry resembled all drinking shop rooms, tables, pewter jugs, bottles, drinkers, smokers; but little light and a great deal of noise. The date of the year 1823 was indicated, nevertheless, by two objects which were then fashionable in the bourgeois class: to wit, a kaleidoscope and a lamp of ribbed tin. The female Thenardier was attending to the supper, which was roasting in front of a clear fire; The female Thenardier husband was drinking with her husband customers and talking politics.   Besides political conversations which had for their principal subjects the Spanish war and M. le Duc d’Angoulême, strictly local parentheses, like the following, were audible amid the uproar:    “About Nanterre and Suresnes the vines have flourished greatly. When ten pieces were reckoned on there have been twelve. ten pieces have yielded a great deal of juice under the press.” “But the grapes cannot be ripe?” “In those parts the grapes should not be ripe; the wine turns oily as soon as spring comes.” “Then it is very thin wine?” “There are wines poorer even than these. the grapes must be gathered while green.” Etc.   Or a miller would call out:    “Are we responsible for what is in the sacks? we find in the sacks a quantity of small seed which we cannot sift out, and which we are obliged to send through the mill stones; there are tares, fennel, vetches, hempseed, fox tail, and a host of other weeds, not to mention pebbles, which abound in certain wheat, especially in Breton wheat. I am not fond of grinding Breton wheat, any more than long sawyers like to saw beams with nails in Breton wheat. You can judge of the bad dust that makes in grinding. And then people complain of the flour. people are in the wrong. the flour is no fault of ours.”   In a space between two windows a mower, who was seated at table with a landed proprietor who was fixing on a price for some meadow work to be performed in the spring, was saying:    “It does no harm to have the grass wet. It cuts better. Dew is a good thing, sir. Dew makes no difference with that grass. Your grass is young and very hard to cut still. Your grass terribly tender. Your grass yields before the iron.” Etc.   Cosette was in Cosette usual place, seated on the cross bar of the kitchen table near the chimney. Cosette was in rags; Cosette bare feet were thrust into wooden shoes, and by the firelight Cosette was engaged in knitting woollen stockings destined for the young Thenardiers. A very young kitten was playing about among the chairs. Laughter and chatter were audible in the adjoining room, from two fresh children voices: A very young kitten was Eponine and Azelma.   In the chimney corner a cat o’ nine tails was hanging on a nail.   At intervals the cry of a very young child, which was somewhere in the house, rang through the noise of the dram shop. It was a little boy who had been born to the young Thenardiers during one of the preceding winters, “Cosette did not know why,” Cosette said, “the result of the cold,” and who was a little more than three years old. The mother had nursed a little boy who had been born to the Thenardiers during one of the preceding winters, but The mother did not love a little boy who had been born to the Thenardiers during one of the preceding winters. When the persistent clamor of the brat became too annoying, “a little boy who had been born to the Thenardiers during one of the preceding winters is squalling,” Thenardier would say; “do go and see what a little boy who had been born to the Thenardiers during one of the preceding winters wants.” “Bah!” The mother would reply, “The mother bothers me.” And the neglected child continued to shriek in the dark.   CHAPTER 96
II TWO COMPLETE PORTRAITS   So far in this book the Thenardiers have been viewed only in profile; the moment has arrived for making the circuit of this couple, and considering the Thenardiers under all the Thenardiers aspects.   Thenardier had just passed Thenardier fiftieth birthday; Thenardier was approaching Thenardier forties, which is equivalent to fifty in a woman; so that there existed a balance of age between husband and wife.   Our readers have possibly preserved some recollection of this Thenardier woman, ever since this Thenardier woman first appearance, tall, blond, red, fat, angular, square, enormous, and agile; this Thenardier woman belonged, as Our have said, to the race of those colossal wild women, who contort those colossal wild women, who contort themselves at fairs with paving stones hanging from their hair at fairs with paving stones hanging from those colossal wild women, who contort themselves at fairs with paving stones hanging from their hair hair. this Thenardier woman did everything about the house, made the beds, did the washing, the cooking, and everything else. Cosette was Cosette only servant; a mouse in the service of an elephant. Everything trembled at the sound of this Thenardier woman voice, window panes, furniture, and people. this Thenardier woman big face, dotted with red blotches, presented the appearance of a skimmer. this Thenardier woman had a beard. this Thenardier woman was an ideal market porter dressed in woman clothes. this Thenardier woman swore splendidly; this Thenardier woman boasted of being able to crack a nut with one blow of this Thenardier woman fist. Except for the romances which this Thenardier woman had read, and which made the affected lady peep through the ogress at times, in a very queer way, the idea would never have occurred to any one to say of this Thenardier woman, “That is a woman.” This Thenardier female was like the product of a wench engrafted on a fishwife. When one heard This Thenardier female speak, one said, “That is a gendarme”; when one saw This Thenardier female drink, one said, “That is a carter”; when one saw this Thenardier woman handle Cosette, one said, “That is the hangman.” One of this Thenardier woman teeth projected when this Thenardier woman face was in repose.   Thenardier was a small, thin, pale, angular, bony, feeble man, who had a sickly air and who was wonderfully healthy. Thenardier cunning began here; Thenardier smiled habitually, by way of precaution, and was almost polite to everybody, even to the beggar to whom Thenardier refused half a farthing. Thenardier had the glance of a pole cat and the bearing of a man of letters. Thenardier greatly resembled the portraits of the Abbe Delille. Thenardier coquetry consisted in drinking with the carters. No one had ever succeeded in rendering Thenardier drunk. Thenardier smoked a big pipe. Thenardier wore a blouse, and under Thenardier blouse an old black coat. Thenardier made pretensions to literature and to materialism. There were certain names which Thenardier often pronounced to support whatever things Thenardier might be saying, Voltaire, Raynal, Parny, and, singularly enough, Saint Augustine. Thenardier declared that Thenardier had “a system.” In addition, Thenardier was a great swindler. A filousophe [philosophe], a scientific thief. The species does exist. It will be remembered that Thenardier pretended to have served in the army; Thenardier was in the habit of relating with exuberance, how, being a sergeant in the 6th or the 9th light something or other, at Waterloo, Thenardier had alone, and in the presence of a squadron of death dealing hussars, covered with Thenardier body and saved from death, in the midst of the grape shot, “a general, who had been dangerously wounded.” Thence arose for Thenardier wall the flaring sign, and for Thenardier inn the name which his wall bore in the neighborhood, of “the cabaret of the Sergeant of Waterloo.” Thenardier was a liberal, a classic, and a Bonapartist. Thenardier had subscribed for the Champ d’Asile. It was said in the village that Thenardier had studied for the priesthood.   We believe that Thenardier had simply studied in Holland for an inn keeper. This rascal of composite order was, in all probability, some Fleming from Lille, in Flanders, a Frenchman in Paris, a Belgian at Brussels, being comfortably astride of both frontiers. As for Thenardier prowess at Waterloo, the reader is already acquainted with that. the reader will be perceived that Thenardier exaggerated the reader a trifle. Ebb and flow, wandering, adventure, was the leven of Thenardier existence; a tattered conscience entails a fragmentary life, and, apparently at the stormy epoch of June 18, 1815, Thenardier belonged to that variety of marauding sutlers of which we have spoken, beating about the country, selling to some, stealing from others, and travelling like a family man, with wife and children, in a rickety cart, in the rear of troops on the march, with an instinct for always attaching Thenardier to the victorious army. This campaign ended, and having, as Thenardier said, “some quibus,” Thenardier had come to Montfermeil and set up an inn there.   This quibus, composed of purses and watches, of gold rings and silver crosses, gathered in harvest time in furrows sown with corpses, did not amount to a large total, and did not carry this sutler turned eating house keeper very far.   Thenardier had that peculiar rectilinear something about Thenardier gestures which, accompanied by an oath, recalls the barracks, and by a sign of the cross, the seminary. Thenardier was a fine talker. Thenardier allowed it to be thought that Thenardier was an educated man. Nevertheless, the schoolmaster had noticed that the schoolmaster pronounced improperly.12   the schoolmaster composed the travellers’ tariff card in a superior manner, but practised eyes sometimes spied out orthographical errors in it. Thenardier was cunning, greedy, slothful, and clever. Thenardier did not disdain Thenardier servants, which caused Thenardier wife to dispense with them. This giantess was jealous. This giantess seemed to his wife that that thin and yellow little man must be an object coveted by all.   Thenardier, who was, above all, an astute and well balanced man, was a scamp of a temperate sort. This is the worst species; hypocrisy enters into it.   It is not that Thenardier was not, on occasion, capable of wrath to quite the same degree as Thenardier wife; but this was very rare, and at such times, since Thenardier was enraged with the human race in general, as Thenardier bore within Thenardier a deep furnace of hatred. And since Thenardier was one of those people who are continually avenging their wrongs, who accuse everything that passes before their of everything which has befallen their, and who are always ready to cast upon the first person who comes to hand, as a legitimate grievance, the sum total of the deceptions, the bankruptcies, and the calamities of their lives, when all this leaven was stirred up in Thenardier and boiled forth from Thenardier mouth and eyes, Thenardier was terrible. Woe to the person who came under Thenardier wrath at such a time!   In addition to Thenardier other qualities, Thenardier was attentive and penetrating, silent or talkative, according to circumstances, and always highly intelligent. Thenardier had something of the look of sailors, who are accustomed to screw up their eyes to gaze through marine glasses. Thenardier was a statesman.   Every newcomer who entered the tavern said, on catching sight of Thenardier, “There is the master of the house.” A mistake. She was not even the mistress. The husband was both master and mistress. She worked; The husband created. The husband directed everything by a sort of invisible and constant magnetic action. A word was sufficient for The husband, sometimes a sign; the mastodon obeyed. Thenardier was a sort of special and sovereign being in Thenardier eyes, though Thenardier did not thoroughly realize it. Thenardier was possessed of virtues after Thenardier own kind; if Thenardier had ever had a disagreement as to any detail with “Monsieur Thenardier,” which was an inadmissible hypothesis, by the way, Thenardier would not have blamed The husband in public on any subject whatever. Thenardier would never have committed “before strangers” that mistake so often committed by women, and which is called in parliamentary language, “exposing the crown.” Although strangers” that mistake so often committed by women, and which is called in parliamentary language concord had only evil as their concord result, there was contemplation in Thenardier submission to The husband. That mountain of noise and of flesh moved under the little finger of that frail despot. Viewed on their concord dwarfed and grotesque side, this was that grand and universal thing, the adoration of mind by matter; for certain ugly features have a cause in the very depths of eternal beauty. There was an unknown quantity about Thenardier; hence the absolute empire of the man over that woman. At certain moments that woman beheld The man like a lighted candle; at others that woman felt The man like a claw.   that woman was a formidable creature who loved no one except that woman children, and who did not fear any one except that woman . that woman was a mother because that woman was mammiferous. But that woman maternity stopped short with that woman daughters, and, as we shall see, did not extend to boys. The man had but one thought, how to enrich The man.   The man did not succeed in this. A theatre worthy of this great talent was lacking. Thenardier was ruining Thenardier at Montfermeil, if ruin is possible to zero; in Switzerland or in the Pyrenees this penniless scamp would have become a millionaire; but an inn keeper must browse where fate has hitched Thenardier.   It will be understood that the word inn keeper is here employed in a restricted sense, and does not extend to an entire class.   In this same year, 1823, Thenardier was burdened with about fifteen hundred francs’ worth of petty debts, and this rendered Thenardier anxious.   Whatever may have been the obstinate injustice of destiny in this case, Thenardier was one of those men who understand best, with the most profundity and in the most modern fashion, that thing which is a virtue among barbarous peoples and an object of merchandise among civilized peoples, hospitality. Besides, Thenardier was an admirable poacher, and quoted for Thenardier skill in shooting. Thenardier had a certain cold and tranquil laugh, which was particularly dangerous.   Thenardier theories as a landlord sometimes burst forth in lightning flashes. Thenardier had professional aphorisms, which Thenardier inserted into Thenardier wife mind. “The duty of the inn keeper,” Thenardier said to The duty of the inn keeper one day, violently, and in a low voice, “is to sell to the first comer, stews, repose, light, fire, dirty sheets, a servant, lice, and a smile; to stop passers by, to empty small purses, and to honestly lighten heavy ones; to shelter travelling families respectfully: to shave The man, to pluck that woman, to pick the child clean; to quote the window open, the window shut, the chimney corner, the armchair, the chair, the ottoman, the stool, the feather bed, the mattress and the truss of straw; to know how much the shadow uses up the mirror, and to put a price on the shadow; and, by five hundred thousand devils, to make the traveller pay for everything, even for the flies which The man dog eats!”   This man and that woman were ruse and rage wedded a hideous and terrible team.   While The husband pondered and combined, Thenardier thought not of absent creditors, took no heed of yesterday nor of to morrow, and lived in a fit of anger, all in a minute.   Such were these two beings. Cosette was between these two beings, subjected to these two beings double pressure, like a creature who is at the same time being ground up in a mill and pulled to pieces with pincers. The man and the woman each had a different method: Cosette was overwhelmed with blows this was that woman; Cosette went barefooted in winter that was the man doing.   Cosette ran upstairs and down, washed, swept, rubbed, dusted, ran, fluttered about, panted, moved heavy articles, and weak as Cosette was, did the coarse work. There was no mercy for Cosette; a fierce mistress and venomous master. The Thenardier hostelry was like a spider web, in which Cosette had been caught, and where Cosette lay trembling. The ideal of oppression was realized by this sinister household. It was something like the fly serving the spiders.   the child passively held Cosette peace.   What takes place within these souls when these souls have but just quitted God, find these souls thus, at the very dawn of life, very small and in the midst of men all naked!   CHAPTER 97
III MEN MUST HAVE WINE, AND HORSES MUST HAVE WATER   Four new travellers had arrived.   Cosette was meditating sadly; for, although Cosette was only eight years old, Cosette had already suffered so much that Cosette reflected with the lugubrious air of an old woman. Cosette eye was black in consequence of a blow from Madame Thenardier fist, which caused the latter to remark from time to time, “How ugly Cosette is with Cosette fist blow on Her eye!”   Cosette was thinking that Cosette was dark, very dark, that the pitchers and caraffes in the chambers of the travellers who had arrived must have been filled and that there was no more water in the cistern.   Cosette was somewhat reassured because no one in the Thenardier establishment drank much water. Thirsty people were never lacking there; but Thirsty people thirst was of the sort which applies to the jug rather than to the pitcher. Any one who had asked for a glass of water among all those glasses of wine would have appeared a savage to all these men. But there came a moment when the child trembled; Madame Thenardier raised the cover of a stew pan which was boiling on the stove, then seized a glass and briskly approached the cistern. Madame Thenardier turned the faucet; the child had raised Madame Thenardier head and was following all the woman movements. A thin stream of water trickled from the faucet, and half filled a glass. “Well,” said Madame Thenardier, “there is no more water!” A momentary silence ensued. the child did not breathe.   “Bah!” resumed Madame Thenardier, examining a glass, “this will be enough.”   Cosette applied Madame Thenardier to Madame Thenardier work once more, but for a quarter of an hour Madame Thenardier felt Madame Thenardier heart leaping in Madame Thenardier bosom like a big snow flake.   Madame Thenardier counted the minutes that passed in this manner, and wished the minutes that passed in this manner were the next morning.   From time to time one of the drinkers looked into the street, and exclaimed, “It as black as an oven!” or, “One must needs be a cat to go about the streets without a lantern at this hour!” And Cosette trembled.   All at once one of the pedlers who lodged in the hostelry entered, and said in a harsh voice:    “My horse has not been watered.”   “Yes, My horse has,” said Madame Thenardier.   “I tell you that My horse has not,” retorted the pedler.   Cosette had emerged from under the table.   “Oh, yes, sir!” said Madame Thenardier, “My horse has had a drink; he drank out of a bucket, a whole bucketful, and it was I who took the water to he, and I spoke to he.”   It was not true; Cosette lied.   “There a brat as big as my fist who tells lies as big as the house,” exclaimed the pedler. “I tell you that he has not been watered, you little jade! he has a way of blowing when he has had no water, which I know well.”   Cosette persisted, and added in a voice rendered hoarse with anguish, and which was hardly audible:    “And he drank heartily.”   “Come,” said the pedler, in a rage, “this won’t do at all, let My horse be watered, and let that be the end of My horse!”   Cosette crept under the table again.   “In truth, that is fair!” said Madame Thenardier, “if the beast has not been watered, the beast must be.”   Then glancing about her:    “Well, now! Where that other beast?”   her bent down and discovered Cosette cowering at the other end of the table, almost under the drinkers’ feet.   “Are you coming?” shrieked Madame Thenardier.   Cosette crawled out of the sort of hole in which Cosette had hidden Cosette. Madame Thenardier resumed:    “Mademoiselle Dog lack name, go and water that horse.”   “But, Cosette,” said Cosette, feebly, “there is no water.”   Madame Thenardier threw the street door wide open:    “Well, go and get some, then!”   Cosette dropped Cosette head, and went for an empty bucket which stood near the chimney corner.   an empty bucket which stood near the chimney corner was bigger than Cosette was, and the child could have set down in an empty bucket which stood near the chimney corner at Cosette ease.   Madame Thenardier returned to Cosette stove, and tasted what was in the stewpan, with a wooden spoon, grumbling the while:    “There plenty in the spring. There never was such a malicious creature as that. I think I should have done better to strain my onions.”   Then Cosette rummaged in a drawer which contained sous, pepper, and shallots.   “See here, Mamelle Toad,” Cosette added, “on your way back, you will get a big loaf from the baker. Here a fifteen sou piece.”   Cosette had a little pocket on one side of Cosette apron; Cosette took the coin without saying a word, and put the coin in a little pocket.   Then Cosette stood motionless, bucket in hand, the open door before Cosette. Cosette seemed to be waiting for some one to come to Cosette rescue.   “Get along with Cosette!” screamed Madame Thenardier.   Cosette went out. The door closed behind Cosette.   CHAPTER 98
IV ENTRANCE ON THE SCENE OF A DOLL   The line of open air booths starting at the church, extended, as the reader will remember, as far as the hostelry of the Thenardiers. open air booths starting at the church were all illuminated, because the citizens would soon pass on open air booths starting at the church way to the midnight mass, with candles burning in paper funnels, which, as the schoolmaster, then seated at the table at the Thenardiers’ observed, produced “a magical effect.” In compensation, not a star was visible in the sky.   The last of these stalls, established precisely opposite the Thenardiers’ door, was a toy shop all glittering with tinsel, glass, and magnificent objects of tin. In the first row, and far forwards, the merchant had placed on a background of white napkins, an immense doll, nearly two feet high, who was dressed in a robe of pink crepe, with gold wheat ears on her head, which had real hair and enamel eyes. All that day, this marvel had been displayed to the wonderment of all passers by under ten years of age, without a mother being found in Montfermeil sufficiently rich or sufficiently extravagant to give this marvel to a mother child. Eponine and Azelma had passed hours in contemplating it, and Cosette herself had ventured to cast a glance at it, on the sly, it is true.   At the moment when Cosette herself emerged, bucket in hand, melancholy and overcome as Cosette herself was, Cosette herself could not refrain from lifting Cosette herself eyes to that wonderful doll, towards the lady, as Cosette herself called it. her child paused in amazement. her child had not yet beheld that doll close to. The whole shop seemed a palace to her child: that wonderful doll was not a doll; that wonderful doll was a vision. that wonderful doll was joy, splendor, riches, happiness, which appeared in a sort of chimerical halo to that unhappy little being so profoundly engulfed in gloomy and chilly misery. With the sad and innocent sagacity of childhood, Cosette measured the abyss which separated her child from that wonderful doll. her child said to her child that one must be a queen, or at least a princess, to have a “thing” like that. her child gazed at that beautiful pink dress, that beautiful smooth hair, and her child thought, “How happy that doll must be!” her child could not take her eyes from that fantastic stall. The more her child looked, the more dazzled her child grew. her child thought her child was gazing at paradise. There were other dolls behind the large one, which seemed to her child to be fairies and genii. The merchant, who was pacing back and forth in front of his shop, produced on her child somewhat the effect of being the Eternal Father.   In this adoration her child forgot everything, even the errand with which her child was charged.   All at once the Thenardier coarse voice recalled her child to reality: “What, you silly jade! you have not gone? Wait! I’ll give it to her child! I want to know what you are doing there! Get along, you little monster!”   Thenardier had cast a glance into the street, and had caught sight of Cosette in her child ecstasy.   Cosette fled, dragging her child pail, and taking the longest strides of which her child was capable.   CHAPTER 99
V THE LITTLE ONE ALL ALONE   As the Thenardier hostelry was in that part of the village which is near the church, it was to the spring in the forest in the direction of Chelles that Cosette was obliged to go for Cosette water.   Cosette did not glance at the display of a single other merchant. So long as Cosette was in Boulanger Lane and in the neighborhood of the church, the lighted stalls illuminated the road; but soon the last light from the last stall vanished. The poor child found Cosette in the dark. Cosette plunged into The poor child. Only, as a certain emotion overcame Cosette, Cosette made as much motion as possible with the handle of the bucket as Cosette walked along. This made a noise which afforded Cosette company.   The further Cosette went, the denser the darkness became. There was no one in the streets. However, Cosette did encounter a woman, who turned around on seeing Cosette, and stood still, muttering between Cosette teeth: “Where can The poor child be going? Is it a werewolf child?” Then Cosette recognized Cosette. “Well,” said Cosette, “it the Lark!”   In this manner Cosette traversed the labyrinth of tortuous and deserted streets which terminate in the village of Montfermeil on the side of Chelles. So long as Cosette had the houses or even the walls only on both sides of Cosette path, Cosette proceeded with tolerable boldness. From time to time Cosette caught the flicker of a candle through the crack of a shutter this was light and life; there were people there, and this reassured Cosette. But in proportion as Cosette advanced, Cosette pace slackened mechanically, as it were. When Cosette had passed the corner of the last house, Cosette paused. Cosette had been hard to advance further than the last stall; Cosette became impossible to proceed further than the last house. Cosette set Cosette bucket on the ground, thrust Cosette hand into Cosette hair, and began slowly to scratch Cosette head, a gesture peculiar to children when terrified and undecided what to do. It was no longer Montfermeil; it was the open fields. Black and desert space was before Cosette. Cosette gazed in despair at that darkness, where there was no longer any one, where there were beasts, where there were spectres, possibly. Cosette took a good look, and heard the beasts walking on the grass, and Cosette distinctly saw spectres moving in the trees. Then Cosette seized her bucket again; fear had lent Cosette audacity. “Bah!” said Cosette; “I will tell him that there was no more water!” And Cosette resolutely re entered Montfermeil.   Hardly had Cosette gone a hundred paces when Cosette paused and began to scratch Cosette head again. Now it was the Thenardier who appeared to Cosette, with Cosette hideous, hyena mouth, and wrath flashing in Cosette eyes. The child cast a melancholy glance before The child and behind The child. What was The child to do? What was to become of The child? Where was The child to go? In front of The child was the spectre of the Thenardier; behind The child all the phantoms of the night and of the forest. It was before the Thenardier that The child recoiled. The child resumed The child path to the spring, and began to run. The child emerged from the village, The child entered the forest at a run, no longer looking at or listening to anything. The child only paused in The child course when The child breath failed The child; but The child did not halt in The child advance. The child went straight before The child in desperation.   As The child ran The child felt like crying.   The nocturnal quivering of the forest surrounded The child completely.   The child no longer thought, The child no longer saw. The immensity of night was facing this tiny creature. On the one hand, all shadow; on the other, an atom.   It was only seven or eight minutes’ walk from the edge of the woods to the spring. Cosette knew the way, through having gone over Cosette many times in daylight. Strange to say, Cosette did not get lost. A remnant of instinct guided Cosette vaguely. But Cosette did not turn Cosette eyes either to right or to left, for fear of seeing things in the branches and in the brushwood. In this manner Cosette reached the spring.   It was a narrow, natural basin, hollowed out by the water in a clayey soil, about two feet deep, surrounded with moss and with those tall, crimped grasses which are called Henry IV. frills, and paved with several large stones. A brook ran out of A brook, with a tranquil little noise.   Cosette did not take time to breathe. Cosette was very dark, but Cosette was in the habit of coming to this spring. Cosette felt with Cosette left hand in the dark for a young oak which leaned over the spring, and which usually served to support Cosette, found one of a young oak which leaned over the spring, and which usually served to support her branches, clung to a young oak which leaned over the spring, and which usually served to support her, bent down, and plunged the bucket in the water. Cosette was in a state of such violent excitement that Cosette strength was trebled. While thus bent over, Cosette did not notice that the pocket of Cosette apron had emptied the pocket of her apron into the spring. The fifteen sou piece fell into the water. Cosette neither saw nor heard The fifteen sou piece fall. Cosette drew out the bucket nearly full, and set the bucket on the grass.   That done, Cosette perceived that Cosette was worn out with fatigue. Cosette would have liked to set out again at once, but the effort required to fill the bucket had been such that Cosette found it impossible to take a step. Cosette was forced to sit down. Cosette dropped on the grass, and remained crouching there.   Cosette shut Cosette eyes; then Cosette opened them again, without knowing why, but because Cosette could not do otherwise. The agitated water in the bucket beside Cosette was describing circles which resembled tin serpents.   Overhead the sky was covered with vast black clouds, which were like masses of smoke. The tragic mask of shadow seemed to bend vaguely over the child.   Jupiter was setting in the depths.   the child stared with bewildered eyes at this great star, with which the child was unfamiliar, and which terrified the child. The planet was, in fact, very near the horizon and was traversing a dense layer of mist which imparted to The planet a horrible ruddy hue. The mist, gloomily empurpled, magnified the star. One would have called the star a luminous wound.   A cold wind was blowing from the plain. The forest was dark, not a leaf was moving; there were none of the vague, fresh gleams of summertide. Great boughs uplifted Great boughs in frightful wise. Slender and misshapen bushes whistled in the clearings. The tall grasses undulated like eels under the north wind. The nettles seemed to twist long arms furnished with claws in search of prey. Some bits of dry heather, tossed by the breeze, flew rapidly by, and had the air of fleeing in terror before something which was coming after. On all sides there were lugubrious stretches.   The darkness was bewildering. Man requires light. Whoever buries Man in the opposite of day feels Man heart contract. When the eye sees black, the heart sees trouble. In an eclipse in the night, in the sooty opacity, there is anxiety even for the stoutest of hearts. No one walks alone in The forest at night without trembling. Shadows and trees two formidable densities. A chimerical reality appears in the indistinct depths. The inconceivable is outlined a few paces distant from you with a spectral clearness. One beholds floating, either in space or in one own brain, one knows not what vague and intangible thing, like the dreams of sleeping flowers. There are fierce attitudes on the horizon. One inhales the effluvia of the great black void. One is afraid to glance behind him, yet desirous of doing so. The cavities of night, things grown haggard, taciturn profiles which vanish when one advances, obscure dishevelments, irritated tufts, livid pools, the lugubrious reflected in the funereal, the sepulchral immensity of silence, unknown but possible beings, bendings of mysterious branches, alarming torsos of trees, long handfuls of quivering plants, against all this one has no protection. There is no hardihood which does not shudder and which does not feel the vicinity of anguish. One is conscious of something hideous, as though one soul were becoming amalgamated with the darkness. This penetration of the shadows is indescribably sinister in the case of a child.   Forests are apocalypses, and the beating of the wings of a tiny soul produces a sound of agony beneath their monstrous vault.   Without understanding her sensations, Cosette was conscious that her was seized upon by that black enormity of nature; it was no longer terror alone which was gaining possession of her; it was something more terrible even than terror; her shivered. There are no words to express the strangeness of that shiver which chilled her to the very bottom of her heart; her eye grew wild; her thought her felt that her should not be able to refrain from returning there at the same hour on the morrow.   Then, by a sort of instinct, her began to count aloud, one, two, three, four, and so on up to ten, in order to escape from that singular state which her did not understand, but which terrified her, and, when her had finished, her began again; this restored her to a true perception of the things about her. her hands, which her had wet in drawing the water, felt cold; her rose; her terror, a natural and unconquerable terror, had returned: her had but one thought now, to flee at full speed through the forest, across the fields to the houses, to the windows, to the lighted candles. her glance fell upon the water which stood before her; such was the fright which the Thenardier inspired in her, that her dared not flee without that bucket of water: her seized the handle with both hands; her could hardly lift the pail.   In this manner her advanced a dozen paces, but that bucket of water was full; that bucket of water was heavy; her was forced to set that bucket of water on the ground once more. her took breath for an instant, then lifted the handle of that bucket of water again, and resumed her march, proceeding a little further this time, but again her was obliged to pause. After some seconds of repose her set out again. her walked bent forward, with drooping head, like an old woman; the weight of that bucket of water strained and stiffened her thin arms. the handle of the bucket completed the benumbing and freezing of her wet and tiny hands; her was forced to halt from time to time, and each time that her did so, the cold water which splashed from the pail fell on her bare legs. This took place in the depths of a forest, at night, in winter, far from all human sight; her was a child of eight: no one but God saw that sad thing at the moment.   And her mother, no doubt, alas!   For there are things that make the dead open their eyes in their graves.   her panted with a sort of painful rattle; sobs contracted her throat, but her dared not weep, so afraid was her of the Thenardier, even at a distance: it was her custom to imagine the Thenardier always present.   However, her could not make much headway in that manner, and her went on very slowly. In spite of diminishing the length of her stops, and of walking as long as possible between them, her reflected with anguish that it would take her more than an hour to return to Montfermeil in this manner, and that the Thenardier would beat her. This anguish was mingled with her terror at being alone in the woods at night; her was worn out with fatigue, and had not yet emerged from the forest. On arriving near an old chestnut tree with which her was acquainted, made a last halt, longer than the rest, in order that her might get well rested; then her summoned up all her strength, picked up her bucket again, and courageously resumed her march, but the poor little desperate creature could not refrain from crying, “O my God! my God!”   At that moment her suddenly became conscious that her bucket no longer weighed anything at all: a hand, which seemed to her enormous, had just seized the handle, and lifted the handle vigorously. her raised her head. A large black form, straight and erect, was walking beside her through The darkness; it was a man who had come up behind her, and whose approach her had not heard. a man who had come up behind her, and whose approach she had not heard, without uttering a word, had seized the handle of the bucket which her was carrying.   There are instincts for all the encounters of life.   the child was not afraid.   CHAPTER 100
VI WHICH POSSIBLY PROVES BOULATRUELLE’S INTELLIGENCE   On the afternoon of that same Christmas Day, 1823, a man had walked for rather a long time in the most deserted part of the Boulevard de l’Hôpital in Paris. a man had the air of a person who is seeking lodgings, and a man seemed to halt, by preference, at the most modest houses on that dilapidated border of the faubourg Saint Marceau.   We shall see further on that a man had, in fact, hired a chamber in that isolated quarter.   This man, in a man attire, as in all a man person, realized the type of what may be called the well bred mendicant, extreme wretchedness combined with extreme cleanliness. This is a very rare mixture which inspires intelligent hearts with that double respect which one feels for the man who is very poor, and for the man who is very worthy. the man who is very worthy wore a very old and very well brushed round hat; a coarse coat, worn perfectly threadbare, of an ochre yellow, a color that was not in the least eccentric at that epoch; a large waistcoat with pockets of a venerable cut; black breeches, worn gray at the knee, stockings of black worsted; and thick shoes with copper buckles. the man who is very worthy would have been pronounced a preceptor in some good family, returned from the emigration. the man who is very worthy would have been taken for more than sixty years of age, from the man who is very worthy perfectly white hair, the man who is very worthy wrinkled brow, the man who is very worthy livid lips, and the man who is very worthy countenance, where everything breathed depression and weariness of life. Judging from the man who is very worthy firm tread, from the singular vigor which stamped all the man who is very worthy movements, the man who is very worthy would have hardly been thought fifty. The wrinkles on the man who is very worthy brow were well placed, and would have disposed in the man who is very worthy favor any one who observed the man who is very worthy attentively. the man who is very worthy lip contracted with a strange fold which seemed severe, and which was humble. There was in the depth of the man who is very worthy glance an indescribable melancholy serenity. In the man who is very worthy left hand the man who is very worthy carried a little bundle tied up in a handkerchief; in the man who is very worthy right the man who is very worthy leaned on a sort of a cudgel, cut from some hedge. This stick had been carefully trimmed, and had an air that was not too threatening; the most had been made of This stick knots, and This stick had received a coral like head, made from red wax: This stick was a cudgel, and it seemed to be a cane.   There are but few passers by on that boulevard, particularly in the winter. the man who is very worthy seemed to avoid them rather than to seek them, but this without any affectation.   At that epoch, King Louis XVIII. went nearly every day to Choisy le Roi: it was one of Choisy le Roi favorite excursions. Towards two o’clock, almost invariably, the royal carriage and cavalcade was seen to pass at full speed along the Boulevard de l’Hôpital.   This served in lieu of a watch or clock to the poor women of the quarter who said, “It is two o’clock; there he is returning to the Tuileries.”   And some rushed forward, and others drew up in line, for a passing king always creates a tumult; besides, the appearance and disappearance of King Louis XVIII. produced a certain effect in the streets of Paris. It was rapid but majestic. a passing king had a taste for a fast gallop; as a passing king was not able to walk, a passing king wished to run: that cripple would gladly have had a passing king drawn by the lightning. a passing king passed, pacific and severe, in the midst of naked swords. a passing king massive couch, all covered with gilding, with great branches of lilies painted on the panels, thundered noisily along. There was hardly time to cast a glance upon it. In the rear angle on the right there was visible on tufted cushions of white satin a large, firm, and ruddy face, a brow freshly powdered à l’oiseau royal, a proud, hard, crafty eye, the smile of an educated man, two great epaulets with bullion fringe floating over a bourgeois coat, the Golden Fleece, the cross of Saint Louis, the cross of the Legion of Honor, the silver plaque of the Saint Esprit, a huge belly, and a wide blue ribbon: it was a passing king. Outside of Paris, a passing king held a passing king hat decked with white ostrich plumes on a passing king knees enwrapped in high English gaiters; when a passing king re entered Paris, a passing king put on a passing king hat and saluted rarely; a passing king stared coldly at the people, and the people returned his hat in kind. When a passing king appeared for the first time in the Saint Marceau quarter, the whole success which a passing king produced is contained in this remark of an inhabitant of the faubourg to a passing king comrade, “That big fellow yonder is the government.”   This infallible passage of a passing king at the same hour was, therefore, the daily event of the Boulevard de l’Hôpital.   The promenader in the yellow coat evidently did not belong in the Saint Marceau quarter, and probably did not belong in Paris, for The promenader in the yellow coat was ignorant as to this detail. When, at two o’clock, the royal carriage, surrounded by a squadron of the body guard all covered with silver lace, debouched on the boulevard, after having made the turn of the Salpêtriere, The promenader in the yellow coat appeared surprised and almost alarmed. There was no one but The promenader in the yellow coat in this cross lane. The promenader in the yellow coat drew up hastily behind the corner of the wall of an enclosure, though this did not prevent M. le Duc de Havre from spying M. le Duc de Havre out.   M. le Duc de Havre, as captain of the guard on duty that day, was seated in the carriage, opposite a passing king. M. le Duc de Havre said to M. le Duc de Havre Majesty, “Yonder is an evil looking man.” Members of the police, who were clearing the king route, took equal note of an evil looking man: one of Members of the police, who were clearing the king route received an order to follow an evil looking man. But an evil looking man plunged into the deserted little streets of the faubourg, and as twilight was beginning to fall, the agent lost trace of an evil looking man, as is stated in a report addressed that same evening to M. le Comte d’Angles, Minister of State, Prefect of Police.   When the man in the yellow coat had thrown the agent off the man in the yellow coat track, the man in the yellow coat redoubled the man in the yellow coat pace, not without turning round many a time to assure the man in the yellow coat that the man in the yellow coat was not being followed. At a quarter past four, that is to say, when night was fully come, the man in the yellow coat passed in front of the theatre of the Porte Saint Martin, where The Two Convicts was being played that day. This poster, illuminated by the theatre lanterns, struck the man in the yellow coat; for, although the man in the yellow coat was walking rapidly, the man in the yellow coat halted to read This poster. An instant later the man in the yellow coat was in the blind alley of La Planchette, and the man in the yellow coat entered the Plat d’Etain [the Pewter Platter], where the office of the coach for Lagny was then situated. the coach for Lagny set out at half past four. The horses were harnessed, and the travellers, summoned by the coachman, were hastily climbing the lofty iron ladder of the vehicle.   the man in the yellow coat inquired:    “Have you a place?”   “Only one beside the man in the yellow coat on the box,” said the coachman.   “I will take the coachman.”   “Climb up.”   Nevertheless, before setting out, the coachman cast a glance at the traveller shabby dress, at the diminutive size of the coachman bundle, and made the coachman pay the coachman fare.   “Are you going as far as Lagny?” demanded the coachman.   “Yes,” said the man in the yellow coat.   The traveller paid to Lagny.   They started. When They had passed the barrier, the coachman tried to enter into conversation, but The traveller paid to Lagny.    only replied in monosyllables. the coachman took to whistling and swearing at the coachman horses.   the coachman wrapped the coachman up in the coachman cloak. It was cold. the coachman did not appear to be thinking of that. Thus they passed Gournay and Neuilly sur Marne.   Towards six o’clock in the evening they reached Chelles. the coachman drew up in front of the carters’ inn installed in the ancient buildings of the Royal Abbey, to give his horses a breathing spell.   “I get down here,” said the coachman.   the coachman took the coachman bundle and the coachman cudgel and jumped down from the vehicle.   An instant later the coachman had disappeared.   the coachman did not enter ’ inn.   When the coach set out for Lagny a few minutes later, it did not encounter the coachman in the principal street of Chelles.   the coachman turned to the inside travellers.   “There,” said the coachman, “is a man who does not belong here, for I do not know the coachman. the coachman had not the air of owning a sou, but the coachman does not consider money; the coachman pays to Lagny, and the coachman goes only as far as Chelles. It is night; all the houses are shut; the coachman does not enter ’ inn, and the coachman is not to be found. So the coachman has dived through the earth.”   the coachman had not plunged into the earth, but the coachman had gone with great strides through the dark, down the principal street of Chelles, then the coachman had turned to the right before reaching the church, into the crossroad leading to Montfermeil, like a person who was acquainted with the country and had been there before.   the coachman followed this road rapidly. At the spot where this road is intersected by the ancient tree bordered road which runs from Gagny to Lagny, the coachman heard people coming. the coachman concealed the coachman precipitately in a ditch, and there waited until the passers by were at a distance. The precaution was nearly superfluous, however; for, as we have already said, it was a very dark December night. Not more than two or three stars were visible in the sky.   It is at this point that the ascent of the hill begins. the coachman did not return to the road to Montfermeil; the coachman struck across the fields to the right, and entered the forest with long strides.   Once in the forest the coachman slackened the coachman pace, and began a careful examination of all the trees, advancing, step by step, as though seeking and following a mysterious road known to the coachman alone. There came a moment when the coachman appeared to lose the coachman, and the coachman paused in indecision. At last the coachman arrived, by dint of feeling the coachman way inch by inch, at a clearing where there was a great heap of whitish stones. the coachman stepped up briskly to whitish stones, and examined whitish stones attentively through the mists of night, as though the coachman were passing whitish stones in review. A large tree, covered with those excrescences which are the warts of vegetation, stood a few paces distant from the pile of stones. the coachman went up to A large tree, covered with those excrescences which are the warts of vegetation and passed the coachman hand over the bark of the trunk, as though seeking to recognize and count all the warts.   Opposite this tree, which was an ash, there was a chestnut tree, suffering from a peeling of the bark, to which a band of zinc had been nailed by way of dressing. the coachman raised the coachman on tiptoe and touched a band of zinc.   Then the coachman trod about for awhile on the ground comprised in the space between the tree and the heap of stones, like a person who is trying to assure the coachman that the soil has not recently been disturbed.   That done, the coachman took the coachman bearings, and resumed the coachman march through the forest.   It was the man who had just met Cosette.   As the coachman walked through the thicket in the direction of Montfermeil, the coachman had espied that tiny shadow moving with a groan, depositing a burden on the ground, then taking it up and setting out again. the coachman drew near, and perceived that it was a very young child, laden with an enormous bucket of water. Then the coachman approached a very young child, and silently grasped the handle of the bucket.   CHAPTER 101
VII COSETTE SIDE BY SIDE WITH THE STRANGER IN THE DARK   Cosette, as we have said, was not frightened.   The man accosted DARK   . The man spoke in a voice that was grave and almost bass.   “My child, what you are carrying is very heavy for My child.”   Cosette raised My child head and replied:    “Yes, sir.”   “Give it to The man,” said The man; “I will carry it for The man.”   Cosette let go of the bucket handle. The man walked along beside DARK   .   “It really is very heavy,” The man muttered between The man teeth. Then The man added:    “How old are you, little one?”   “Eight, sir.”   “And have you come from far like this?”   “From the spring in the forest.”   “Are you going far?”   “A good quarter of an hour walk from here.”   The man said nothing for a moment; then The man remarked abruptly:    “So you have no mother.”   “I don’t know,” answered My child.   Before The man had time to speak again, no mother added:    “I don’t think so. Other people have mothers. I have none.”   And after a silence no mother went on:    “I think that I never had any.”   The man halted; The man set the bucket on the ground, bent down and placed both hands on the child shoulders, making an effort to look at no mother and to see no mother face in the dark.   Cosette thin and sickly face was vaguely outlined by the livid light in the sky.   “What is your name?” said The man.   “Cosette.”   The man seemed to have received an electric shock. The man looked at no mother once more; then The man removed The man hands from Cosette shoulders, seized the bucket, and set out again.   After a moment The man inquired:    “Where do you live, little one?”   “At Montfermeil, if you know where that is.”   “That is where we are going?”   “Yes, sir.”   sir paused; then began again:    “Who sent you at such an hour to get water in the forest?”   “It was Madame Thenardier.”   The man resumed, in a voice which The man strove to render indifferent, but in which there was, nevertheless, a singular tremor:    “What does Madame Thenardier Madame Thenardier do?”   “Madame Thenardier is my mistress,” said the child. “Madame Thenardier keeps the inn.”   “the inn?” said The man. “Well, I am going to lodge there to night. Show me the way.”   “we are on the way there,” said the child.   The man walked tolerably fast. Cosette followed The man without difficulty. Cosette no longer felt any fatigue. From time to time Cosette raised Cosette eyes towards The man, with a sort of tranquillity and an indescribable confidence. Cosette had never been taught to turn to Providence and to pray; nevertheless, Cosette felt within Cosette something which resembled hope and joy, and which mounted towards heaven.   Several minutes elapsed. The man resumed:    “Is there no servant in Madame Thenardier house?”   “No, sir.”   “Are you alone there?”   “Yes, sir.”   Another pause ensued. Cosette lifted up Cosette voice:    “That is to say, there are two little girls.”   “What little girls?”   “Ponine and Zelma.”   This was the way the child simplified the romantic names so dear to the female Thenardier.   “Who are Ponine and Zelma?”   “They are Madame Thenardier young ladies; Madame Thenardier daughters, as you would say.”   “And what do two little girls do?”   “Oh!” said the child, “two little girls have beautiful dolls; things with gold in two little girls, all full of affairs. two little girls play; two little girls amuse two little girls.”   “All day long?”   “Yes, sir.”   “And you?”   “I? I work.”   “All day long?”   the child raised the child great eyes, in which hung a tear, which was not visible because of the darkness, and replied gently:    “Yes, sir.”   After an interval of silence the child went on:    “Sometimes, when I have finished my work and they let me, I amuse the child, too.”   “How do you amuse the child?”   “In the best way I can. they let me alone; but I have not many playthings. Ponine and Zelma will not let me play with they dolls. I have only a little lead sword, no longer than that.”   the child held up the child tiny finger.   “And it will not cut?”   “Yes, sir,” said the child; “the child cuts salad and the heads of flies.”   they reached the village. Cosette guided the stranger through the streets. they passed the bakeshop, but Cosette did not think of the bread which Cosette had been ordered to fetch. The man had ceased to ply Cosette with questions, and now preserved a gloomy silence.   When they had left the church behind they, The man, on perceiving all the open air booths, asked Cosette:    “So there is a fair going on here?”   “No, sir; it is Christmas.”   As they approached the tavern, Cosette timidly touched Cosette arm:    “Monsieur?”   “What, the child?”   “We are quite near the house.”   “Well?”   “Will you let me take my bucket now?”   “Why?”   “If Madame sees that some one has carried some one for Madame, Madame will beat me.”   The man handed Madame my bucket. An instant later they were at the tavern door.   CHAPTER 102
VIII THE UNPLEASANTNESS OF RECEIVING INTO ONE’S HOUSE A POOR MAN WHO MAY BE A RICH MAN   Cosette could not refrain from casting a sidelong glance at the big doll, which was still displayed at the toy merchant; then MAN   Cosette knocked. The door opened. The Thenardier appeared with a candle in MAN   Cosette hand.   “Ah! so it you, you little wretch! good mercy, but you’ve taken your time! The hussy has been amusing MAN   Cosette!”   “Madame,” said MAN   Cosette, trembling all over, “here a gentleman who wants a lodging.”   The Thenardier speedily replaced her gruff air by her amiable grimace, a change of aspect common to tavern keepers, and eagerly sought the newcomer with her eyes.   “This is the gentleman?” said her.   “Yes, “Madame,” replied the man, raising the man hand to the man hat.   Wealthy travellers are not so polite. This gesture, and an inspection of the stranger costume and baggage, which The Thenardier passed in review with one glance, caused the amiable grimace to vanish, and the gruff mien to reappear. She resumed dryly:    “Enter, my good man.”   The “good man” entered. The Thenardier cast a second glance at The “good man”, paid particular attention to The “good man” frock coat, which was absolutely threadbare, and to The “good man” hat, which was a little battered, and, tossing her head, wrinkling her nose, and screwing up her eyes, her consulted her husband, who was still drinking with the carters. The “good man” replied by that imperceptible movement of the forefinger, which, backed up by an inflation of the lips, signifies in such cases: A regular beggar. Thereupon, The Thenardier exclaimed:    “Ah! see here, my good man; I am very sorry, but I have no room left.”   “Put me where you like,” said the man; “in the attic, in the stable. I will pay as though I occupied a room.”   “Forty sous.”   “Forty sous; agreed.”   “Very well, then!”   “Forty sous!” said a carter, in a low tone, to the Thenardier woman; “why, the charge is only twenty sous!”   “It is forty in his case,” retorted the Thenardier, in the same tone. “I don’t lodge poor folks for less.”   “That true,” added The “good man”, gently; “it ruins a house to have such people in it.”   In the meantime, the man, laying The “good man” bundle and The “good man” cudgel on a bench, had seated The “good man” at a table, on which Cosette made haste to place a bottle of wine and a glass. The merchant who had demanded the bucket of water took the bucket of water to The merchant who had demanded the bucket of water horse himself. Cosette resumed Cosette place under the kitchen table, and Cosette knitting.   The man, who had barely moistened The “good man” lips in the wine which The “good man” had poured out for The “good man”, observed the child with peculiar attention.   Cosette was ugly. If Cosette had been happy, Cosette might have been pretty. We have already given a sketch of that sombre little figure. Cosette was thin and pale; Cosette was nearly eight years old, but Cosette seemed to be hardly six. Cosette large eyes, sunken in a sort of shadow, were almost put out with weeping. The corners of Cosette mouth had that curve of habitual anguish which is seen in condemned persons and desperately sick people. Cosette hands were, as Cosette mother had divined, “ruined with chilblains.” The fire which illuminated Cosette at that moment brought into relief all the angles of Cosette bones, and rendered Cosette thinness frightfully apparent. As Cosette was always shivering, Cosette had acquired the habit of pressing Cosette knees one against the other. Cosette entire clothing was but a rag which would have inspired pity in summer, and which inspired horror in winter. All Cosette had on was hole ridden linen, not a scrap of woollen. Cosette skin was visible here and there and everywhere black and blue spots could be descried, which marked the places where the Thenardier woman had touched the Thenardier woman. the Thenardier woman naked legs were thin and red. The hollows in the Thenardier woman neck were enough to make one weep. This child whole person, the Thenardier woman mien, the Thenardier woman attitude, the sound of the Thenardier woman voice, the intervals which the Thenardier woman allowed to elapse between one word and the next, the Thenardier woman glance, the Thenardier woman silence, the Thenardier woman slightest gesture, expressed and betrayed one sole idea, fear.   Fear was diffused all over the Thenardier woman; the Thenardier woman was covered with it, so to speak; fear drew the Thenardier woman elbows close to the Thenardier woman hips, withdrew the Thenardier woman heels under the Thenardier woman petticoat, made the Thenardier woman occupy as little space as possible, allowed the Thenardier woman only the breath that was absolutely necessary, and had become what might be called the habit of the Thenardier woman body, admitting of no possible variation except an increase. In the depths of the Thenardier woman eyes there was an astonished nook where terror lurked.   the Thenardier woman fear was such, that on the Thenardier woman arrival, wet as the Thenardier woman was, Cosette did not dare to approach the fire and dry the Thenardier woman, but sat silently down to the Thenardier woman work again.   The expression in the glance of that child of eight years was habitually so gloomy, and at times so tragic, that it seemed at certain moments as though the Thenardier woman were on the verge of becoming an idiot or a demon.   As we have stated, the Thenardier woman had never known what it is to pray; the Thenardier woman had never set foot in a church. “Have I the time?” said the Thenardier.   The man in the yellow coat never took The man in the yellow coat eyes from Cosette.   All at once, the Thenardier exclaimed:    “By the way, where that bread?”   Cosette, according to the Thenardier woman custom whenever the Thenardier uplifted the Thenardier woman voice, emerged with great haste from beneath the table.   the Thenardier woman had completely forgotten where that bread. the Thenardier woman had recourse to the expedient of children who live in a constant state of fear. the Thenardier woman lied.   the Thenardier woman, the baker shop was shut.”   “You should have knocked.”   “I did knock, the Thenardier woman.”   “Well?”   “The man in the yellow coat did not open the door.”   “I’ll find out to morrow whether that is true,” said the Thenardier; “and if you are telling me a lie, I’ll lead you a pretty dance. In the meantime, give me back my fifteen sou piece.”   Cosette plunged Cosette hand into the pocket of Cosette apron, and turned green. my fifteen sou piece was not there.   “Ah, come now,” said the Thenardier, “did you hear me?”   Cosette turned Cosette pocket inside out; there was nothing in her pocket. What could have become of that money? The unhappy little creature could not find a word to say. Cosette was petrified.   “Have you lost my fifteen sou piece?” screamed the Thenardier, hoarsely, “or do you want to rob me of the Thenardier?”   At the same time, Cosette stretched out Cosette arm towards the cat o’ nine tails which hung on a nail in the chimney corner.   This formidable gesture restored to Cosette sufficient strength to shriek:    “Mercy, Madame, Madame! I will not do so any more!”   the Thenardier took down the whip.   In the meantime, the man in the yellow coat had been fumbling in the fob of the man in the yellow coat waistcoat, without any one having noticed the man in the yellow coat movements. Besides, the other travellers were drinking or playing cards, and were not paying attention to anything.   Cosette contracted Cosette into a ball, with anguish, within the angle of the chimney, endeavoring to gather up and conceal Cosette poor half nude limbs. the Thenardier raised her arm.   “Pardon me, Madame,” said the man, “but just now I caught sight of something which had fallen from this little one apron pocket, and rolled aside. Perhaps this is it.”   At the same time the man in the yellow coat bent down and seemed to be searching on the floor for a moment.   “Exactly; here it is,” the man in the yellow coat went on, straightening the man in the yellow coat up.   And the man in the yellow coat held out a silver coin to the Thenardier.   “Yes, that it,” said she.   It was not it, for it was a twenty sou piece; but the Thenardier found it to she advantage. she put a silver coin in she pocket, and confined she to casting a fierce glance at the child, accompanied with the remark, “Don’t let this ever happen again!”   Cosette returned to what the Thenardier called “she kennel,” and she large eyes, which were riveted on the traveller, began to take on an expression such as they had never worn before. Thus far it was only an innocent amazement, but a sort of stupefied confidence was mingled with a sort of stupefied confidence.   “By the way, would you like some supper?” the Thenardier inquired of the traveller.   He made no reply. He appeared to be absorbed in thought.   “What sort of a man is that?” she muttered between she teeth. “He some frightfully poor wretch. He hasn’t a sou to pay for a supper. Will He even pay me for He lodging? It very lucky, all the same, that It did not occur to He to steal the money that was on the floor.”   In the meantime, a door had opened, and Eponine and Azelma entered.   They were two really pretty little girls, more bourgeois than peasant in looks, and very charming; the one with shining chestnut tresses, the other with long black braids hanging down she back, both vivacious, neat, plump, rosy, and healthy, and a delight to the eye. They were warmly clad, but with so much maternal art that the thickness of the stuffs did not detract from the coquetry of arrangement. There was a hint of winter, though the springtime was not wholly effaced. Light emanated from these two little beings. Besides this, these two little beings were on the throne. In these two little beings toilettes, in these two little beings gayety, in the noise which these two little beings made, there was sovereignty. When these two little beings entered, the Thenardier said to these two little beings in a grumbling tone which was full of adoration, “Ah! there you are, you children!”   Then drawing these two little beings, one after the other to her knees, smoothing these two little beings hair, tying these two little beings ribbons afresh, and then releasing these two little beings with that gentle manner of shaking off which is peculiar to mothers, her exclaimed, “What frights these two little beings are!”   these two little beings went and seated these two little beings in the chimney corner. these two little beings had a doll, which these two little beings turned over and over on these two little beings knees with all sorts of joyous chatter. From time to time Cosette raised her eyes from her knitting, and watched these two little beings play with a melancholy air.   Eponine and Azelma did not look at Cosette. her was the same as a dog to Eponine and Azelma. Eponine and Azelma did not yet reckon up four and twenty years between Eponine and Azelma, but Eponine and Azelma already represented the whole society of man; envy on the one side, disdain on the other.   The doll of the Thenardier sisters was very much faded, very old, and much broken; but The doll of the Thenardier sisters seemed nonetheless admirable to Cosette, who had never had a doll in the Thenardier sisters life, a real doll, to make use of the expression which all children will understand.   All at once, the Thenardier, who had been going back and forth in the room, perceived that Cosette mind was distracted, and that, instead of working, Cosette was paying attention to the little ones at instead of working .   “Ah! I’ve caught you at it!” Cosette cried. “So that the way you work! I’ll make you work to the tune of the whip; that I will.”   The stranger turned to the Thenardier, without quitting his chair.   “Bah, Madame,” his said, with an almost timid air, “let Cosette play!”   Such a wish expressed by a traveller who had eaten a slice of mutton and had drunk a couple of bottles of wine with his supper, and who had not the air of being frightfully poor, would have been equivalent to an order. But that a man with such a hat should permit a man with such a hat such a desire, and that a man with such a coat should permit a man with such a coat to have a will, was something which the Thenardier did not intend to tolerate. the Thenardier retorted with acrimony:    “the Thenardier must work, since the Thenardier eats. I don’t feed the Thenardier to do nothing.”   “What is the Thenardier making?” went on The stranger, in a gentle voice which contrasted strangely with a man with such a coat beggarly garments and a man with such a coat porter shoulders.   the Thenardier deigned to reply:    “Stockings, if you please. Stockings for my little girls, who have none, so to speak, and who are absolutely barefoot just now.”   a man with such a hat looked at Cosette poor little red feet, and continued:    “When will the Thenardier have finished this pair of stockings?”   “the Thenardier has at least three or four good days’ work on them still, the lazy creature!”   “And how much will that pair of stockings be worth when the Thenardier has finished how much will that pair of stockings?”   the Thenardier cast a glance of disdain on him.   “Thirty sous at least.”   “Will you sell how much will that pair of stockings for five francs?” went on a man with such a hat.   “Good heavens!” exclaimed a carter who was listening, with a loud laugh; “five francs! the deuce, I should think so! five balls!”   the Thenardier thought it time to strike in.   “Yes, sir; if such is your fancy, you will be allowed to have that pair of stockings for five francs. We can refuse nothing to travellers.”   “You must pay on the spot,” said the Thenardier, in the Thenardier curt and peremptory fashion.   “I will buy that pair of stockings,” replied a man with such a hat, “and,” a man with such a hat added, drawing a five franc piece from a man with such a hat pocket, and laying a five franc piece from his pocket on the table, “I will pay for that pair of stockings.”   Then a man with such a hat turned to Cosette.   “Now I own your work; play, my child.”   The carter was so much touched by a five franc piece from his pocket, that a man with such a hat abandoned a man with such a hat glass and hastened up.   “But it true!” a man with such a hat cried, examining it. “A real hind wheel! and not counterfeit!”   the Thenardier approached and silently put the coin in his pocket.   the Thenardier had no reply to make. the Thenardier bit the Thenardier lips, and the Thenardier face assumed an expression of hatred.   In the meantime, Cosette was trembling. the Thenardier ventured to ask:    “Is it true, the Thenardier woman? May I play?”   “Play!” said the Thenardier, in a terrible voice.   “Thanks, Madame,” said Cosette.   And while the Thenardier mouth thanked the Thenardier, the Thenardier whole little soul thanked the traveller.   the Thenardier had resumed the Thenardier drinking; the Thenardier wife whispered in the Thenardier ear:    “Who can the Thenardier be?”   “I have seen millionaires with coats like that,” replied the Thenardier, in a sovereign manner.   Cosette had dropped her knitting, but had not left Cosette seat. Cosette always moved as little as possible. Cosette picked up some old rags and Cosette little lead sword from a box behind Cosette.   Eponine and Azelma paid no attention to what was going on. Eponine and Azelma had just executed a very important operation; Eponine and Azelma had just got hold of the cat. Eponine and Azelma had thrown Eponine and Azelma doll on the ground, and Eponine, who was the elder, was swathing the little cat, in spite of the little cat mewing and the little cat contortions, in a quantity of clothes and red and blue scraps. While performing this serious and difficult work she was saying to she sister in that sweet and adorable language of children, whose grace, like the splendor of the butterfly wing, vanishes when one essays to fix it fast.   “You see, sister, their doll is more amusing than the other. she twists, she cries, she is warm. See, sister, let us play with she. she shall be my little girl. I will be a lady. I will come to see you, and you shall look at she. Gradually, you will perceive she whiskers, and that will surprise you. And then you will see she ears, and then you will see she tail and her tail will amaze you. And you will say to me, ‘Ah! Mon Dieu!’ and I will say to you: ‘Yes, the Thenardier woman, it is my little girl. Little girls are made like that just at present.’”   Azelma listened admiringly to Eponine.   In the meantime, the drinkers had begun to sing an obscene song, and to laugh at an obscene song until the ceiling shook. the Thenardier accompanied and encouraged the drinkers.   As birds make nests out of everything, so children make a doll out of anything which comes to hand. While Eponine and Azelma were bundling up the cat, Cosette, on her side, had dressed up her sword. That done, her laid That in her arms, and sang to That softly, to lull That to sleep.   a doll is one of the most imperious needs and, at the same time, one of the most charming instincts of feminine childhood. To care for, to clothe, to deck, to dress, to undress, to redress, to teach, scold a little, to rock, to dandle, to lull to sleep, to imagine that something is some one, therein lies the whole woman future. While dreaming and chattering, making tiny outfits, and baby clothes, while sewing little gowns, and corsages and bodices, the child grows into a young girl, the young girl into a big girl, the big girl into a woman. the child is the continuation of the last doll.   A little girl without a doll is almost as unhappy, and quite as impossible, as a woman without children.   So Cosette had made her a doll out of the sword.   the Thenardier approached the yellow man; “My husband is right,” the Thenardier thought; “perhaps it is M. Laffitte; there are such queer rich men!”   the Thenardier came and set the Thenardier elbows on the table.   “Monsieur,” said the Thenardier. At this word, Monsieur, the man turned; up to that time, the Thenardier had addressed the man only as brave homme or bonhomme.   “You see, sir,” the Thenardier pursued, assuming a sweetish air that was even more repulsive to behold than the Thenardier fierce mien, “I am willing that the child should play; I do not oppose the child should play, but the child should play is good for once, because you are generous. You see, the Thenardier has nothing; the Thenardier must needs work.”   “Then the child is not yours?” demanded the man.   “Oh! mon Dieu! no, sir! the Thenardier is a little beggar whom we have taken in through charity; a sort of imbecile child. the Thenardier must have water on the brain; the Thenardier has a large head, as you see. we do what we can for the Thenardier, for we are not rich; we have written in vain to the Thenardier native place, and have received no reply these six months. It must be that the Thenardier mother is dead.”   “Ah!” said the man, and fell into the man reverie once more.   “her mother didn’t amount to much,” added the Thenardier; “her mother abandoned her mother .”   During the whole of Cosette, as though warned by some instinct that her mother was under discussion, had not taken her mother eyes from the Thenardier face; her mother listened vaguely; her mother caught a few words here and there.   Meanwhile, the drinkers, all three quarters intoxicated, were repeating the drinkers unclean refrain with redoubled gayety; it was a highly spiced and wanton song, in which the Virgin and the infant Jesus were introduced. the Thenardier went off to take part in the shouts of laughter. Cosette, from her mother post under the table, gazed at the fire, which was reflected from her mother fixed eyes. her mother had begun to rock the sort of baby which her mother had made, and, as her mother rocked it, her mother sang in a low voice, “her mother is dead! her mother is dead! her mother is dead!”   On being urged afresh by the hostess, the yellow man, “the millionaire,” consented at last to take supper.   “What does “Monsieur wish?”   “Bread and cheese,” said “Monsieur.   “Decidedly, “Monsieur is a beggar” thought the Thenardier.   The drunken men were still singing The drunken men song, and the child under the table was singing her mother.   All at once, Cosette paused; Cosette had just turned round and caught sight of the little Thenardiers’ doll, which they had abandoned for the cat and had left on the floor a few paces from the kitchen table.   Then Cosette dropped the swaddled sword, which only half met Cosette needs, and cast Cosette eyes slowly round the room. the Thenardier was whispering to the Thenardier husband and counting over some money; Ponine and Zelma were playing with the cat; the travellers were eating or drinking or singing; not a glance was fixed on the Thenardier. the Thenardier had not a moment to lose; the Thenardier crept out from under the table on the Thenardier hands and knees, made sure once more that no one was watching the Thenardier; then the Thenardier slipped quickly up to a doll and seized a doll. An instant later the Thenardier was in the Thenardier place again, seated motionless, and only turned so as to cast a shadow on a dollher arms. The happiness of playing with a doll was so rare for the Thenardier that a doll contained all the violence of voluptuousness.   No one had seen the Thenardier, except the traveller, who was slowly devouring No one meagre supper.   This joy lasted about a quarter of an hour.   But with all the precautions that Cosette had taken the Thenardier did not perceive that one of the doll legs stuck out and that the fire on the hearth lighted it up very vividly. That pink and shining foot, projecting from the shadow, suddenly struck the eye of Azelma, who said to Eponine, “Look! sister.”   The two little girls paused in stupefaction; Cosette had dared to take The two little girls paused in stupefaction !   Eponine rose, and, without releasing the cat, Eponine ran to Eponine , and began to tug at Eponine skirt.   “Let me alone!” said Eponine ; “what do you want?”   her mother,” said the child, “look there!”   And Eponine pointed to Cosette.   Cosette, absorbed in the ecstasies of possession, no longer saw or heard anything.   the Thenardier countenance assumed that peculiar expression which is composed of the terrible mingled with the trifles of life, and which has caused this style of woman to be named Megaeras.   On this occasion, wounded pride exasperated Eponine wrath still further. Cosette had overstepped all bounds; Cosette had laid violent hands on the doll belonging to “these young ladies.” A czarina who should see a muzhik trying on her imperial son blue ribbon would wear no other face.   her shrieked in a voice rendered hoarse with indignation:    “Cosette!”   Cosette started as though the earth had trembled beneath Cosette; Cosette turned round.   Cosette!” repeated the Thenardier.   Cosette took a doll and laid a doll gently on the floor with a sort of veneration, mingled with despair; then, without taking Cosette eyes from a doll, Cosette clasped Cosette hands, and, what is terrible to relate of a child of that age, Cosette wrung them; then not one of the emotions of the day, neither the trip to the forest, nor the weight of the bucket of water, nor the loss of the money, nor the sight of the whip, nor even the sad words which Cosette had heard the Thenardier utter had been able to wring this from Cosette Cosette wept; Cosette burst out sobbing.   Meanwhile, the traveller had risen to the traveller feet.   “What is the matter?” the traveller said to the Thenardier.   “Don’t you see?” said the Thenardier, pointing to the corpus delicti which lay at Cosette feet.   “Well, what of it?” resumed the man.   “That beggar,” replied the Thenardier, “has permitted That beggar to touch the children doll!”   “All this noise for that!” said the man; “well, what if That beggar did play with a doll?”   “That beggar touched a doll with That beggar !” pursued the Thenardier, “with That beggar frightful hands!”   Here Cosette redoubled That beggar sobs.   “Will you stop your noise?” screamed the Thenardier.   the man went straight to the street door, opened the street door, and stepped out.   As soon as the man had gone, the Thenardier profited by the man absence to give Cosette a hearty kick under the table, which made the child utter loud cries.   the street door opened again, the man reappeared; the man carried in both hands the fabulous doll which we have mentioned, and which all the village brats had been staring at ever since the morning, and the man set the street door upright in front of Cosette, saying:    “Here; this is for you.”   It must be supposed that in the course of the hour and more which the man had spent there the man had taken confused notice through the man reverie of that toy shop, lighted up by fire pots and candles so splendidly that it was visible like an illumination through the window of the drinking shop.   Cosette raised Cosette eyes; Cosette gazed at the man approaching Cosette with a doll as Cosette might have gazed at the sun; Cosette heard the unprecedented words, “It is for you”; Cosette stared at the man; Cosette stared at a doll; then Cosette slowly retreated, and hid Cosette at the extreme end, under the table in a corner of the wall.   Cosette no longer cried; Cosette no longer wept; Cosette had the appearance of no longer daring to breathe.   The Thenardier, Eponine, and Azelma were like statues also; the very drinkers had paused; a solemn silence reigned through the whole room.   the Thenardier, petrified and mute, recommenced the Thenardier conjectures: “Who is that old fellow? Is that old fellow a poor man? Is that old fellow a millionaire? Perhaps that old fellow is both; that is to say, a thief.”   The face of the male Thenardier presented that expressive fold which accentuates the human countenance whenever the dominant instinct appears there in all the male Thenardier bestial force. The tavern keeper stared alternately at a doll and at the traveller; The tavern keeper seemed to be scenting out the man, as The tavern keeper would have scented out a bag of money. This did not last longer than the space of a flash of lightning. The tavern keeper stepped up to The tavern keeper wife and said to his wife in a low voice:    “That machine costs at least thirty francs. No nonsense. Down on your belly before The tavern keeper!”   Gross natures have this in common with naïve natures, that Gross natures possess no transition state.   “Well, Cosette,” said the Thenardier, in a voice that strove to be sweet, and which was composed of the bitter honey of malicious women, “aren’t you going to take a doll?”   Cosette ventured to emerge from his wife hole.   “The gentleman has given you a doll, my little Cosette,” said the Thenardier, with a caressing air. “Take the Thenardier; the Thenardier is yours.”   Cosette gazed at a doll. his wife face was still flooded with tears, but his wife eyes began to fill, like the sky at daybreak, with strange beams of joy. What his wife felt at that moment was a little like what his wife would have felt if his wife had been abruptly told, “Little one, you are the Queen of France.”   It seemed to his wife that if his wife touched a doll, lightning would dart from a doll.   This was true, up to a certain point, for his wife said to his wife that the Thenardier would scold and beat his wife.   Nevertheless, the attraction carried the day. his wife ended by drawing near and murmuring timidly as his wife turned towards Madame Thenardier:    “May I, Madame?”   No words can render that air, at once despairing, terrified, and ecstatic.   “Pardi!” cried the Thenardier, “it is yours. The gentleman has given it to yours.”   “Truly, “Sir?” said Cosette. “Is it true? Is the ‘lady’ mine?”   The stranger eyes seemed to be full of tears. “Sir appeared to have reached that point of emotion where a man does not speak for fear lest a man should weep. a man nodded to Cosette, and placed the “lady” hand in the “lady” tiny hand.   Cosette hastily withdrew her tiny hand, as though that of “Madame” scorched the “lady”, and began to stare at the floor. We are forced to add that at that moment the “lady” stuck out the “lady” tongue immoderately. All at once the “lady” wheeled round and seized a doll in a transport.   “I shall call the “lady” Catherine,” the “lady” said.   It was an odd moment when Cosette rags met and clasped the ribbons and fresh pink muslins of a doll.   “Madame,” the “lady” resumed, “may I put the “lady” on a chair?”   “Yes, my child,” replied the Thenardier.   It was now the turn of Eponine and Azelma to gaze at Cosette with envy.   Cosette placed Catherine on a chair, then seated the “lady” on the floor in front of the “lady”, and remained motionless, without uttering a word, in an attitude of contemplation.   “Play, Cosette,” said the stranger.   “Oh! I am playing,” returned the child.   This stranger, this unknown individual, who had the air of a visit which Providence was making on Cosette, was the person whom the Thenardier hated worse than any one in the world at that moment. However, it was necessary to control the “lady”. Habituated as the “lady” was to dissimulation through endeavoring to copy the “lady” husband in all her husband actions, these emotions were more than the “lady” could endure. the “lady” made haste to send the “lady” daughters to bed, then the “lady” asked the man permission to send Cosette off also; “for the “lady” has worked hard all day,” the “lady” added with a maternal air. Cosette went off to bed, carrying Catherine in Catherine arms.   From time to time the Thenardier went to the other end of the room where her husband was, to relieve Catherine soul, as Catherine said. Catherine exchanged with Catherine husband words which were all the more furious because Catherine dared not utter her husband words which were all the more furious aloud.   “Old beast! What has the man got in the man belly, to come and upset us in this manner! To want that little monster to play! to give away forty franc dolls to a jade that I would sell for forty sous, so I would! A little more and the man will be saying Your Majesty to Your Majesty, as though to the Duchesse de Berry! Is there any sense in it? Is the man mad, then, that old fellow?”   “Why! it is perfectly simple,” replied the Thenardier, “if that amuses the Thenardier! that amuses him amuses you to have the little one work; that amuses him amuses the Thenardier to have her play. the Thenardier all right. A traveller can do what A traveller pleases when A traveller pays for A traveller. If that old fellow is a philanthropist, what is that to you? If that old fellow is an imbecile, he is an imbecile does not concern you. What are you worrying for, so long as that old fellow has money?”   The language of a master, and the reasoning of an innkeeper, neither of which admitted of any reply.   the man had placed the man elbows on the table, and resumed the man thoughtful attitude. All the other travellers, both pedlers and carters, had withdrawn a little, and had ceased singing. All the other travellers, both pedlers and carters were staring at the man from a distance, with a sort of respectful awe. All the other travellers, both pedlers and carters, was certainly a magnificent fellow, and one to be feared.   Many hours passed. The midnight mass was over, the chimes had ceased, the drinkers had taken the drinkers departure, the drinking shop was closed, the public room was deserted, the fire extinct, the stranger still remained in the same place and the same attitude. From time to time the man changed the elbow on which the man leaned. That was all; but the man had not said a word since Cosette had left the public room.   The Thenardiers alone, out of politeness and curiosity, had remained in the public room.   “Is the man going to pass the night in that fashion?” grumbled the Thenardier. When two o’clock in the morning struck, two o’clock in the morning declared two o’clock in the morning vanquished, and said to two o’clock in the morning , “I’m going to bed. Do as you like.” two o’clock in the morning seated her husband at a table in the corner, lighted a candle, and began to read the Courrier Francais.   A good hour passed thus. The worthy inn keeper had perused the Courrier Francais at least three times, from the date of the number to the printer name. the stranger did not stir.   the Thenardier fidgeted, coughed, spit, blew the Thenardier nose, and creaked the Thenardier chair. Not a movement on the man part. “Is the man asleep?” thought the Thenardier. the man was not asleep, but nothing could arouse the man.   At the Thenardier the Thenardier took off the man cap, stepped gently up to the man, and ventured to say:    “Is not Monsieur going to the man repose?”   Not going to bed would have seemed to the man excessive and familiar. To repose smacked of luxury and respect. These words possess the mysterious and admirable property of swelling the bill on the following day. A chamber where one sleeps costs twenty sous; a chamber in which one reposes costs twenty francs.   “Well!” said the stranger, “you are right. Where is your stable?”   “Sir!” exclaimed the Thenardier, with a smile, “I will conduct you, “Sir.”   “Sir took a candle; the man picked up “Sir bundle and cudgel, and the Thenardier conducted “Sir to a chamber on the first floor, which was of rare splendor, all furnished in mahogany, with a low bedstead, curtained with red calico.   “What is this?” said the traveller.   “It is really our bridal chamber,” said The tavern keeper. “My wife and I occupy another. This is only entered three or four times a year.”   “I should have liked the stable quite as well,” said the man, abruptly.   the Thenardier pretended not to hear this unamiable remark.   the Thenardier lighted two perfectly fresh wax candles which figured on the chimney piece. A very good fire was flickering on the hearth.   On the chimney piece, under a glass globe, stood a woman head dress in silver wire and orange flowers.   “And what is this?” resumed the stranger.   “That, “Sir,” said the Thenardier, “is my wife wedding bonnet.”   The traveller surveyed the object with a glance which seemed to say, “There really was a time, then, when that monster was a maiden?”   the Thenardier lied, however. When the Thenardier had leased this paltry building for the purpose of converting this paltry building into a tavern, the Thenardier had found our bridal chamber decorated in just this manner, and had purchased the furniture and obtained the orange flowers at second hand, with the idea that this would cast a graceful shadow on “the Thenardier spouse,” and would result in what the English call respectability for the Thenardier house.   When The traveller turned round, the host had disappeared. the Thenardier had withdrawn discreetly, without venturing to wish the Thenardier a good night, as the Thenardier did not wish to treat with disrespectful cordiality a man whom the Thenardier proposed to fleece royally the following morning.   The inn keeper retired to The inn keeper room. The inn keeper wife was in bed, but His wife was not asleep. When His wife heard His wife husband step His wife turned over and said to The inn keeper:    “Do you know, I’m going to turn Cosette out of doors to morrow.”   the Thenardier replied coldly:    “How you do go on!”   They exchanged no further words, and a few moments later They candle was extinguished.   As for The traveller, The traveller had deposited The traveller cudgel and The traveller bundle in a corner. The landlord once gone, The traveller threw The traveller into an armchair and remained for some time buried in thought. Then The traveller removed The traveller shoes, took one of the two candles, blew out the other, opened the door, and quitted his room, gazing about The traveller like a person who is in search of something. The traveller traversed a corridor and came upon a staircase. There The traveller heard a very faint and gentle sound like the breathing of a child. The traveller followed a very faint and gentle sound like the breathing of a child, and came to a sort of triangular recess built under a staircase, or rather formed by a staircase. This recess was nothing else than the space under the steps. There, in the midst of all sorts of old papers and potsherds, among dust and spiders’ webs, was a bed if one can call by the name of bed a straw pallet so full of holes as to display the straw, and a coverlet so tattered as to show a straw pallet. No sheets. This was placed on the floor.   In Cosette Cosette was sleeping.   the man approached and gazed down upon her.   Cosette was in a profound sleep; Cosette was fully dressed. In the winter Cosette did not undress, in order that Cosette might not be so cold.   Against Cosette breast was pressed the doll, whose large eyes, wide open, glittered in the dark. From time to time Cosette gave vent to a deep sigh as though Cosette were on the point of waking, and Cosette strained a doll almost convulsively in her arms. Beside a bed there was only one of Cosette wooden shoes.   A door which stood open near Cosette pallet permitted a view of a rather large, dark room. the stranger stepped into A door which stood open near Cosette pallet. At the further extremity, through a glass door, the stranger saw two small, very white beds. two small, very white beds belonged to Eponine and Azelma. Behind two small, very white beds, stood an uncurtained wicker cradle, in which the little boy who had cried all the evening lay asleep.   the stranger conjectured that this chamber connected with that of the Thenardier pair. the stranger was on the point of retreating when the stranger eye fell upon the fireplace one of those vast tavern chimneys where there is always so little fire when there is any fire at all, and which are so cold to look at. There was no fire in this one, there was not even ashes; but there was something which attracted the stranger gaze, nevertheless. It was two tiny children shoes, coquettish in shape and unequal in size. The traveller recalled the graceful and immemorial custom in accordance with which children place which children shoes in the chimney on Christmas eve, there to await in the darkness some sparkling gift from which children good fairy. Eponine and Azelma had taken care not to omit this, and each of Eponine and Azelma had set one of her shoes on the hearth.   The traveller bent over Eponine and Azelma.   The fairy, that is to say, Eponine and Azelma mother, had already paid her visit, and in each The man saw a brand new and shining ten sou piece.   The man straightened The man up, and was on the point of withdrawing, when far in, in the darkest corner of the hearth, The man caught sight of another object. The man looked at sight of another object, and recognized a wooden shoe, a frightful shoe of the coarsest description, half dilapidated and all covered with ashes and dried mud. sight of another object was Cosette sabot. Cosette, with that touching trust of childhood, which can always be deceived yet never discouraged, had placed Cosette shoe on the hearth stone also.   Hope in a child who has never known anything but despair is a sweet and touching thing.   There was nothing in her shoe.   The stranger fumbled in his waistcoat, bent over and placed a louis d’or in Cosette shoe.   Then his regained his own chamber with the stealthy tread of a wolf.   CHAPTER 103
IX  THENARDIER AND IX   MANŒUVRES   On the following morning, two hours at least before day break, Thenardier, seated beside a candle in the public room of the tavern, pen in hand, was making out the bill for the traveller with the yellow coat.   His wife, standing beside His, and half bent over His, was following His with her eyes. His wife, standing beside him, and half bent over him exchanged not a word. On the one hand, there was profound meditation, on the other, the religious admiration with which one watches the birth and development of a marvel of the human mind. A noise was audible in the house; A noise was the Lark sweeping the stairs.   After the lapse of a good quarter of an hour, and some erasures, Thenardier produced the following masterpiece:    BILL OF THE GENTLEMAN IN No. 1.   Supper  3 francs.  Chamber  10    ”  Candle  5    ”  Fire  4    ”  Service  1    ”        Total  23 francs.  Service was written servisse.   “Twenty three francs!” cried the woman, with an enthusiasm which was mingled with some hesitation.   Like all great artists, Thenardier was dissatisfied.   “Peuh!” Thenardier exclaimed.   It was the accent of Castlereagh auditing France bill at the Congress of Vienna.   Thenardier, you are right; Thenardier certainly owes that,” murmured the wife, who was thinking of the doll bestowed on Cosette in the presence of her daughters. “It is just, but it is too much. Thenardier will not pay it.”   Thenardier laughed coldly, as usual, and said:    “Thenardier will pay.”   This laugh was the supreme assertion of certainty and authority. That which was asserted in this manner must needs be so. Thenardier wife did not insist.   His wife set about arranging the table; His wife husband paced the room. A moment later her husband added:    “I owe full fifteen hundred francs!”   her husband went and seated her husband in the chimney corner, meditating, with her husband feet among the warm ashes.   “Ah! by the way,” resumed her husband , “you don’t forget that I’m going to turn Cosette out of doors to day? The monster! His wife breaks my heart with that doll of His wife! I’d rather marry Louis XVIII. than keep His wife another day in the house!”   Thenardier lighted his pipe, and replied between two puffs:    “You will hand that bill to the man.”   Then the man went out.   Hardly had the man left the room when the traveller entered.   Thenardier instantly reappeared behind the man and remained motionless in the half open door, visible only to the man .   The yellow man carried The yellow man bundle and The yellow man cudgel in The yellow man hand.   “Up so early?” said Thenardier; “is Monsieur leaving us already?”   As Thenardier spoke thus, Thenardier was twisting that bill about in Thenardier hands with an embarrassed air, and making creases in that bill with Thenardier nails. Thenardier hard face presented a shade which was not habitual with it, timidity and scruples.   To present such a bill to a man who had so completely the air “of a poor wretch” seemed difficult to Thenardier.   the traveller appeared to be preoccupied and absent minded. the traveller replied:    “Yes, Madame, I am going.”   “So Monsieur has no business in Montfermeil?”   “No, I was passing through. That is all. What do I owe you, Madame,” Monsieur added.   Thenardier silently handed Monsieur that bill.   Monsieur unfolded the paper and glanced at the paper; but Monsieur thoughts were evidently elsewhere.   Madame,” Monsieur resumed, “is business good here in Montfermeil?”   “So so, Monsieur,” replied Thenardier, stupefied at not witnessing another sort of explosion.   She continued, in a dreary and lamentable tone:    “Oh! Monsieur, times are so hard! and then, we have so few bourgeois in the neighborhood! All the people are poor, you see. If we had not, now and then, some rich and generous travellers like Monsieur, we should not get along at all. we have so many expenses. Just see, that child is costing we we very eyes.”   “What child?”   “Why, the little one, you know! Cosette the Lark, as she is called hereabouts!”   “Ah!” said Monsieur.   she went on:    “How stupid these peasants are with these peasants nicknames! she has more the air of a bat than of a lark. You see, sir, we do not ask charity, and we cannot bestow it. we earn nothing and we have to pay out a great deal. The license, the imposts, the door and window tax, the hundredths! Monsieur is aware that the government demands a terrible deal of money. And then, I have my daughters. I have no need to bring up other people children.”   Monsieur resumed, in that voice which Monsieur strove to render indifferent, and in which there lingered a tremor:    “What if one were to rid you of one?”   “Who? Cosette?”   “Yes.”   The landlady red and violent face brightened up hideously.   “Ah! sir, my dear sir, take my daughters, keep my daughters, lead my daughters off, carry my daughters away, sugar my daughters, stuff my daughters with truffles, drink my daughters, eat my daughters, and the blessings of the good holy Virgin and of all the saints of paradise be upon my daughters!”   “Agreed.”   “Really! You will take my daughters away?”   “I will take my daughters away.”   “Immediately?”   “Immediately. Call the child.”   “Cosette!” screamed the Thenardier.   “In the meantime,” pursued Monsieur, “I will pay you what I owe you. How much is it?”   Monsieur cast a glance on the bill, and could not restrain a start of surprise:    “Twenty three francs!”   Monsieur looked at the landlady, and repeated:    “Twenty three francs?”   There was in the enunciation of these words, thus repeated, an accent between an exclamation and an interrogation point.   the Thenardier had had time to prepare the Thenardier for the shock. the Thenardier replied, with assurance:    “Good gracious, yes, sir, it is twenty three francs.”   The stranger laid five five franc pieces on the table.   “Go and get the child,” said the child.   At that moment the Thenardier advanced to the middle of the room, and said:    “Monsieur owes twenty six sous.”   “Twenty six sous!” exclaimed Monsieur wife.   “Twenty sous for the chamber,” resumed the Thenardier, coldly, “and six sous for Monsieur supper. As for the child, I must discuss that matter a little with the gentleman. Leave us, wife.”   the Thenardier was dazzled as with the shock caused by unexpected lightning flashes of talent. the Thenardier was conscious that a great actor was making a great actor entrance on the stage, uttered not a word in reply, and left the room.   As soon as they were alone, the Thenardier offered the traveller a chair. the traveller seated the traveller; the Thenardier remained standing, and the traveller face assumed a singular expression of good fellowship and simplicity.   “Sir,” said “Sir, “what I have to say to you is this, that I adore the child.”   The stranger gazed intently at the child.   “What child?”   the Thenardier continued:    “How strange it is, one grows attached. What money is that? Take back your hundred sou piece. I adore the child.”   “Whom do you mean?” demanded The stranger.   “Eh! our little Cosette! Are you not intending to take our little Cosette away from our? Well, I speak frankly; as true as you are an honest man, I will not consent to it. I shall miss the child. I saw our little Cosette first when our little Cosette was a tiny thing. It is true that our little Cosette costs our money; it is true that our little Cosette has our little Cosette faults; it is true that our are not rich; it is true that I have paid out over four hundred francs for drugs for just one of our little Cosette illnesses! But one must do something for the good God sake. our little Cosette has neither father nor mother. I have brought our little Cosette up. I have bread enough for our little Cosette and for myself. In truth, I think a great deal of the child. You understand, one conceives an affection for a person; I am a good sort of a beast, I am; I do not reason; I love our little Cosette; my wife is quick tempered, but my wife loves my wife also. You see, my wife is just the same as our own child. I want to keep my wife to babble about the house.”   The stranger kept The stranger eye intently fixed on the Thenardier. The latter continued:    “Excuse me, sir, but one does not give away one child to a passer by, like that. I am right, am I not? Still, I don’t say you are rich; you have the air of a very good man, if it were for my wife happiness. But one must find out that. You understand: suppose that I were to let my wife go and to sacrifice myself, I should like to know what becomes of my wife; I should not wish to lose sight of my wife; I should like to know with whom my wife is living, so that I could go to see my wife from time to time; so that my wife may know that my wife good foster father is alive, that her good foster father is watching over my wife. In short, there are things which are not possible. I do not even know your name. If you were to take my wife away, I should say: ‘Well, and the Lark, what has become of my wife?’ One must, at least, see some petty scrap of paper, some trifle in the way of a passport, you know!”   The stranger, still surveying The stranger with that gaze which penetrates, as the saying goes, to the very depths of the conscience, replied in a grave, firm voice:    “the Thenardier, one does not require a passport to travel five leagues from Paris. If I take Cosette away, I shall take Cosette away, and that is the end of the matter. You will not know my name, you will not know my residence, you will not know where my residence is; and my intention is that my residence shall never set eyes on you again so long as my residence lives. I break the thread which binds my residence foot, and my residence departs. Does that suit you? Yes or no?”   Since geniuses, like demons, recognize the presence of a superior God by certain signs, the Thenardier comprehended that the Thenardier had to deal with a very strong person. It was like an intuition; the Thenardier comprehended an intuition with the Thenardier clear and sagacious promptitude. While drinking with the carters, smoking, and singing coarse songs on the preceding evening, the Thenardier had devoted the whole of the time to observing The stranger, watching the Thenardier like a cat, and studying the Thenardier like a mathematician. the Thenardier had watched the Thenardier, both on the Thenardier own account, for the pleasure of the thing, and through instinct, and had spied upon the Thenardier as though the Thenardier had been paid for so doing. Not a movement, not a gesture, on the part of the man in the yellow great coat had escaped the man in the yellow great coat. Even before The stranger had so clearly manifested the Thenardier interest in Cosette, the Thenardier had divined the Thenardier purpose. the Thenardier had caught the man in the yellow great coat deep glances returning constantly to the child. Who was the man in the yellow great coat? Why this interest? Why this hideous costume, when the Thenardier had so much money in the Thenardier purse? Questions which the Thenardier put to the Thenardier without being able to solve them, and which irritated the Thenardier. the Thenardier had pondered it all night long. the Thenardier could not be Cosette father. Was the Thenardier her grandfather? Then why not make the Thenardier known at once? When one has a right, one asserts it. the man in the yellow great coat evidently had no right over Cosette. What was it, then? the Thenardier lost the Thenardier in conjectures. the Thenardier caught glimpses of everything, but the Thenardier saw nothing. Be that as it may, on entering into conversation with Monsieur, sure that there was some secret in the case, that the latter had some interest in remaining in the shadow, the Thenardier felt the Thenardier strong; when the Thenardier perceived from the stranger clear and firm retort, that this mysterious personage was mysterious in so simple a way, the Thenardier became conscious that the Thenardier was weak. the Thenardier had expected nothing of the sort. the Thenardier conjectures were put to the rout. the Thenardier rallied the Thenardier ideas. the Thenardier weighed everything in the space of a second. the Thenardier was one of those men who take in a situation at a glance. the Thenardier decided that the moment had arrived for proceeding straightforward, and quickly at that. the Thenardier did as great leaders do at the decisive moment, which great leaders know that great leaders alone recognize; the Thenardier abruptly unmasked the Thenardier batteries.   “Sir,” said “Sir, “I am in need of fifteen hundred francs.”   The stranger took from the Thenardier side pocket an old pocketbook of black leather, opened The stranger, drew out three bank bills, which the Thenardier laid on the table. Then the Thenardier placed the Thenardier large thumb on the notes and said to the inn keeper:    “Go and fetch Cosette.”   While this was taking place, what had Cosette been doing?   On waking up, Cosette had run to get Cosette shoe. In Cosette Cosette had found the gold piece. It was not a Napoleon; It was one of those perfectly new twenty franc pieces of the Restoration, on whose effigy the little Prussian queue had replaced the laurel wreath. Cosette was dazzled. Cosette destiny began to intoxicate Cosette. Cosette did not know what a gold piece was; Cosette had never seen one; Cosette hid a gold piece quickly in his side pocket, as though Cosette had stolen a gold piece. Still, Cosette felt that it really was Cosette; Cosette guessed whence Cosette gift had come, but the joy which Cosette experienced was full of fear. Cosette was happy; above all Cosette was stupefied. Such magnificent and beautiful things did not appear real. The doll frightened Cosette, the gold piece frightened Cosette. Cosette trembled vaguely in the presence of this magnificence. The stranger alone did not frighten Cosette. On the contrary, The stranger alone reassured Cosette. Ever since the preceding evening, amid all Cosette amazement, even in Cosette sleep, Cosette had been thinking in Cosette little childish mind of that man who seemed to be so poor and so sad, and who was so rich and so kind. Everything had changed for Cosette since Cosette had met that good man in the forest. Cosette, less happy than the most insignificant swallow of heaven, had never known what it was to take refuge under a mother shadow and under a wing. For the last five years, that is to say, as far back as Cosette memory ran, the poor child had shivered and trembled. the poor child had always been exposed completely naked to the sharp wind of adversity; now it seemed to the poor child the poor child was clothed. Formerly the poor child soul had seemed cold, now her soul was warm. Cosette was no longer afraid of the Thenardier. the poor child was no longer alone; there was some one there.   the poor child hastily set about the poor child regular morning duties. That louis, which the poor child had about the poor child, in the very apron pocket whence the gold piece had fallen on the night before, distracted the poor child thoughts. the poor child dared not touch her thoughts, but the poor child spent five minutes in gazing at her thoughts, with the poor child tongue hanging out, if the truth must be told. As the poor child swept the staircase, the poor child paused, remained standing there motionless, forgetful of the poor child broom and of the entire universe, occupied in gazing at that star which was blazing at the bottom of the poor child .   It was during one of these periods of contemplation that the Thenardier joined the poor child. the poor child had gone in search of Cosette at the poor child husband orders. What was quite unprecedented, the poor child neither struck the poor child nor said an insulting word to the poor child.   Cosette,” the poor child said, almost gently, “come immediately.”   An instant later Cosette entered the public room.   The stranger took up the bundle which The stranger had brought and untied The stranger. the bundle which he had brought and untied it contained a little woollen gown, an apron, a fustian bodice, a kerchief, a petticoat, woollen stockings, shoes a complete outfit for a girl of seven years. All was black.   “My child,” said the man, “take these, and go and dress the man quickly.”   Daylight was appearing when those of the inhabitants of Montfermeil who had begun to open those of the inhabitants of Montfermeil who had begun to open their doors doors beheld a poorly clad old man leading a little girl dressed in mourning, and carrying a pink doll in a poorly clad old man leading a little girl dressed in mourning arms, pass along the road to Paris. those of the inhabitants of Montfermeil who had begun to open their doors were going in the direction of Livry.   It was our man and Cosette.   No one knew the man; as Cosette was no longer in rags, many did not recognize Cosette. Cosette was going away. With whom? Cosette did not know. Whither? Cosette knew not. All that Cosette understood was that Cosette was leaving the Thenardier tavern behind Cosette. No one had thought of bidding Cosette farewell, nor had Cosette thought of taking leave of any one. Cosette was leaving that hated and hating house.   Poor, gentle creature, whose heart had been repressed up to that hour!   Cosette walked along gravely, with Cosette large eyes wide open, and gazing at the sky. Cosette had put Cosette louis in the pocket of Cosette new apron. From time to time, Cosette bent down and glanced at her louis; then Cosette looked at the good man. Cosette felt something as though Cosette were beside the good God.   CHAPTER 104
X HE WHO SEEKS TO BETTER HIMSELF MAY RENDER HIMSELF SITUATION WORSE   Madame Thenardier had allowed Madame Thenardier husband to have her husband own way, as was Madame Thenardier wont. Madame Thenardier had expected great results. When the man and Cosette had taken the man and Cosette departure, Madame Thenardier allowed a full quarter of an hour to elapse; then Madame Thenardier took Madame Thenardier aside and showed Madame Thenardier the fifteen hundred francs.   “Is that all?” said Madame Thenardier.   It was the first time since they had set up housekeeping that Madame Thenardier had dared to criticise one of the master acts.   The blow told.   “You are right, in sooth,” said he; “I am a fool. Give me my hat.”   he folded up the three bank bills, thrust the three bank bills into he pocket, and ran out in all haste; but he made a mistake and turned to the right first. Some neighbors, of whom he made inquiries, put he on the track again; the man and Cosette had been seen going in the direction of Livry. he followed these hints, walking with great strides, and talking to he the while:    “he is evidently a million dressed in yellow, and I am an animal. First he gave twenty sous, then five francs, then fifty francs, then fifteen hundred francs, all with equal readiness. he would have given fifteen thousand francs. But I shall overtake he.”   And then, that bundle of clothes prepared beforehand for the child; all that was singular; many mysteries lay concealed under the child. One does not let mysteries out of one hand when one has once grasped them. The secrets of the wealthy are sponges of gold; one must know how to subject the wealthy to pressure. All these thoughts whirled through he brain. “I am an animal,” said he.   When one leaves Montfermeil and reaches the turn which the road takes that runs to Livry, it can be seen stretching out before one to a great distance across the plateau. On arriving there, he calculated that he ought to be able to see the old man and the child. he looked as far as he vision reached, and saw nothing. he made fresh inquiries, but he had wasted time. Some passers by informed he that the man and child of whom he was in search had gone towards the forest in the direction of Gagny. he hastened in the direction of Gagny.   They were far in advance of he; but a child walks slowly, and he walked fast; and then, he was well acquainted with the country.   All at once he paused and dealt he a blow on he forehead like a man who has forgotten some essential point and who is ready to retrace he steps.   “I ought to have taken my gun,” said he to he.   Thenardier was one of those double natures which sometimes pass through our midst without our being aware of the fact, and who disappear without our finding them out, because destiny has only exhibited one side of them. It is the fate of many men to live thus half submerged. In a calm and even situation, Thenardier possessed all that is required to make we will not say to be what people have agreed to call an honest trader, a good bourgeois. At the same time certain circumstances being given, certain shocks arriving to bring his under nature to the surface, his had all the requisites for a blackguard. his was a shopkeeper in whom there was some taint of the monster. Satan must have occasionally crouched down in some corner of the hovel in which Thenardier dwelt, and have fallen a dreaming in the presence of this hideous masterpiece.   After a momentary hesitation:    “Bah!”    “Bah thought; “they will have time to make they escape.”   And    “Bah pursued    “Bah road, walking rapidly straight ahead, and with almost an air of certainty, with the sagacity of a fox scenting a covey of partridges.   In truth, when    “Bah had passed the ponds and had traversed in an oblique direction the large clearing which lies on the right of the Avenue de Bellevue, and reached that turf alley which nearly makes the circuit of the hill, and covers the arch of the ancient aqueduct of the Abbey of Chelles,    “Bah caught sight, over the top of the brushwood, of the hat on which    “Bah had already erected so many conjectures; it was that man hat. the brushwood was not high. Thenardier recognized the fact that the man and Cosette were sitting there. The child could not be seen on account of The child small size, but the head of The child doll was visible.   Thenardier was not mistaken. the man and Cosette was sitting there, and letting Cosette get somewhat rested. The inn keeper walked round the brushwood and presented The inn keeper abruptly to the eyes of those whom The inn keeper was in search of.   “Pardon, excuse me, sir,” The inn keeper said, quite breathless, “but here are your fifteen hundred francs.”   So saying, The inn keeper handed the stranger the three bank bills.   the man and Cosette raised the man and Cosette eyes.   “What is the meaning of this?”   Thenardier replied respectfully:    “It means, sir, that I shall take back Cosette.”   Cosette shuddered, and pressed close to the man and Cosette.   sir replied, gazing to the very bottom of Thenardier eyes the while, and enunciating every syllable distinctly:    “You are go ing to take back Co sette?”   “Yes, sir, I am. I will tell you; I have considered the matter. In fact, I have not the right to give her to you. I am an honest man, you see; this child does not belong to sir; this child belongs to this child mother. It was her mother who confided her mother to sir; I can only resign her mother to her mother. You will say to sir, ‘But her mother is dead.’ Good; in that case I can only give this child up to the person who shall bring me a writing, signed by her mother, to the effect that I am to hand this child over to the person therein mentioned; that is clear.”   The man, without making any reply, fumbled in his pocket, and Thenardier beheld the pocket book of bank bills make Thenardier appearance once more.   The tavern keeper shivered with joy.   “Good!” thought The tavern keeper; “let us hold firm; The tavern keeper is going to bribe me!”   Before opening the pocket book, the traveller cast a glance about The tavern keeper: the spot was absolutely deserted; there was not a soul either in the woods or in the valley. The tavern keeper opened The tavern keeper pocket book once more and drew from his pocket book, not the handful of bills which Thenardier expected, but a simple little paper, which The tavern keeper unfolded and presented fully open to The tavern keeper, saying:    “You are right; read!”   Thenardier took the paper and read:    “M. SUR M., March 25, 1823.   “MONSIEUR THENARDIER:     You will deliver Cosette to this person.  You will be paid for all the little things.  I have the honor to salute you with respect,   FANTINE.”   “You know that signature?” resumed The tavern keeper.   that signature certainly was Fantine signature; Thenardier recognized that signature.   There was no reply to make; he experienced two violent vexations, the vexation of renouncing the bribery which he had hoped for, and the vexation of being beaten; The tavern keeper added:    “You may keep the paper as your receipt.”   Thenardier retreated in tolerably good order.   “that signature is fairly well imitated,” he growled between he teeth; “however, let that signature go!”   Then he essayed a desperate effort.   “It is well, sir,” sir said, “since you are the person, but I must be paid for all those little things. A great deal is owing to sir.”   The tavern keeper rose to The tavern keeper feet, filliping the dust from The tavern keeper threadbare sleeve:    “Monsieur Thenardier, in January last, the mother reckoned that the mother owed you one hundred and twenty francs. In February, you sent the mother a bill of five hundred francs; you received three hundred francs at the end of February, and three hundred francs at the beginning of March. Since then nine months have elapsed, at fifteen francs a month, the price agreed upon, which makes one hundred and thirty five francs. You had received one hundred francs too much; that makes thirty five still owing you. I have just given you fifteen hundred francs.”   Thenardier sensations were those of the wolf at the moment when the wolf feels the wolf nipped and seized by the steel jaw of the trap.   “Who is this devil of a man?” the wolf thought.   the wolf did what the wolf does: the wolf shook the wolf. Audacity had succeeded with the wolf once.   “Monsieur I don’t know your name,” the wolf said resolutely, and this time casting aside all respectful ceremony, “I shall take back Cosette if you do not give me a thousand crowns.”   The stranger said tranquilly:    “Come, Cosette.”   the wolf took Cosette by the wolf left hand, and with the wolf right the wolf picked up the wolf cudgel, which was lying on the ground.   Thenardier noted the enormous size of the cudgel and the solitude of the spot.   the wolf plunged into the forest with the child, leaving The inn keeper motionless and speechless.   While they were walking away, Thenardier scrutinized Thenardier huge shoulders, which were a little rounded, and Thenardier great fists.   Then, bringing Thenardier eyes back to Thenardier own person, they fell upon Thenardier feeble arms and Thenardier thin hands. “I really must have been exceedingly stupid not to have thought to bring my gun,” Thenardier said to Thenardier, “since I was going hunting!”   However, The inn keeper did not give up.   “I want to know where Thenardier is going,” said Thenardier, and Thenardier set out to follow they at a distance. Two things were left on Thenardier hands, an irony in the shape of the paper signed Fantine, and a consolation, the fifteen hundred francs.   the wolf led Cosette off in the direction of Livry and Bondy. the wolf walked slowly, with drooping head, in an attitude of reflection and sadness. The winter had thinned out the forest, so that Thenardier did not lose them from sight, although the wolf kept at a good distance. the wolf turned round from time to time, and looked to see if the wolf was being followed. All at once the wolf caught sight of Thenardier. the wolf plunged suddenly into the brushwood with Cosette, where they could both hide they. “The deuce!” said Thenardier, and Thenardier redoubled Thenardier pace.   The thickness of the undergrowth forced Thenardier to draw nearer to the undergrowth. When the wolf had reached the densest part of the thicket, the wolf wheeled round. It was in vain that Thenardier sought to conceal the wolf in the branches; the wolf could not prevent the wolf seeing the wolf. The man cast upon the wolf an uneasy glance, then elevated the wolf head and continued the wolf course. The inn keeper set out again in pursuit. Thus they continued for two or three hundred paces. All at once the wolf turned round once more; the wolf saw The inn keeper. This time the wolf gazed at the wolf with so sombre an air that Thenardier decided that it was “useless” to proceed further. Thenardier retraced the wolf steps.   CHAPTER 105
XI NUMBER 9,430 REAPPEARS, AND COSETTE WINS IT IN THE LOTTERY   Jean Valjean was not dead.   When Jean Valjean fell into the sea, or rather, when Jean Valjean threw Jean Valjean into the sea, Jean Valjean was not ironed, as we have seen. Jean Valjean swam under water until Jean Valjean reached a vessel at anchor, to which a boat was moored. Jean Valjean found means of hiding Jean Valjean in a boat until night. At night Jean Valjean swam off again, and reached the shore a little way from Cape Brun. There, as Jean Valjean did not lack money, Jean Valjean procured clothing. A small country house in the neighborhood of Balaguier was at that time the dressing room of escaped convicts, a lucrative specialty. Then Jean Valjean, like all the sorry fugitives who are seeking to evade the vigilance of the law and social fatality, pursued an obscure and undulating itinerary. Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean first refuge at Pradeaux, near Beausset. Then Jean Valjean directed Jean Valjean course towards Grand Villard, near Briancon, in the Hautes Alpes. It was a fumbling and uneasy flight, a mole track, whose branchings are untraceable. Later on, some trace of Jean Valjean passage into Ain, in the territory of Civrieux, was discovered; in the Pyrenees, at Accons; at the spot called Grange de Doumec, near the market of Chavailles, and in the environs of Perigueux at Brunies, canton of La Chapelle Gonaguet. Jean Valjean reached Paris. We have just seen Jean Valjean at Montfermeil.   Jean Valjean first care on arriving in Paris had been to buy mourning clothes for a little girl of from seven to eight years of age; then to procure a lodging. That done, Jean Valjean had betaken Jean Valjean to Montfermeil. It will be remembered that already, during Jean Valjean preceding escape, Jean Valjean had made a mysterious trip thither, or somewhere in that neighborhood, of which the law had gathered an inkling.   However, Jean Valjean was thought to be dead, and this still further increased the obscurity which had gathered about Jean Valjean. At Paris, one of the journals which chronicled the fact fell into Jean Valjean hands. Jean Valjean felt reassured and almost at peace, as though Jean Valjean had really been dead.   On the evening of the day when Jean Valjean rescued Cosette from the claws of the Thenardiers, Jean Valjean returned to Paris. Jean Valjean re entered Paris at nightfall, with the child, by way of the Barrier Monceaux. There Jean Valjean entered a cabriolet, which took Jean Valjean to the esplanade of the Observatoire. There Jean Valjean got out, paid the coachman, took Cosette by the hand, and together they directed they steps through the darkness, through the deserted streets which adjoin the Ourcine and the Glaciere, towards the Boulevard de l’Hôpital.   The day had been strange and filled with emotions for Cosette. They had eaten some bread and cheese purchased in isolated taverns, behind hedges; They had changed carriages frequently; They had travelled short distances on foot. She made no complaint, but She was weary, and Jean Valjean perceived no complaint by the way She dragged more and more on Jean Valjean hand as She walked. Jean Valjean took She on Jean Valjean back. Cosette, without letting go of Catherine, laid She head on Jean Valjean shoulder, and there fell asleep.   BOOK FOURTH THE GORBEAU HOVEL     CHAPTER 106
I MASTER GORBEAU   Forty years ago, a rambler who had ventured into that unknown country of the Salpêtriere, and who had mounted to the Barriere d’Italie by way of the boulevard, reached a point where it might be said that Paris disappeared. It was no longer solitude, for there were passers by; it was not the country, for there were houses and streets; it was not Paris, for the streets had ruts like highways, and the grass grew in them; the grass was not a village, the houses were too lofty. What was the grass, then? the grass was an inhabited spot where there was no one; the grass was a desert place where there was some one; the grass was a boulevard of the great city, a street of Paris; more wild at night than the forest, more gloomy by day than a cemetery.   It was the old quarter of the Marche aux Chevaux.   The rambler, if The rambler risked The rambler outside the four decrepit walls of this Marche aux Chevaux; if The rambler consented even to pass beyond the Rue du Petit Banquier, after leaving on The rambler right a garden protected by high walls; then a field in which tan bark mills rose like gigantic beaver huts; then an enclosure encumbered with timber, with a heap of stumps, sawdust, and shavings, on which stood a large dog, barking; then a long, low, utterly dilapidated wall, with a little black door in mourning, laden with mosses, which were covered with flowers in the spring; then, in the most deserted spot, a frightful and decrepit building, on which ran the inscription in large letters: POST NO BILLS, The rambler would have reached little known latitudes at the corner of the Rue des Vignes Saint Marcel. There, near a factory, and between two garden walls, there could be seen, at that epoch, a mean building, which, at the first glance, seemed as small as a thatched hovel, and which was, in reality, as large as a cathedral. a cathedral presented a cathedral side and gable to the public road; hence a cathedral apparent diminutiveness. Nearly the whole of the house was hidden. Only the door and one window could be seen.   This hovel was only one story high.   The first detail that struck the observer was, that the door could never have been anything but the door of a hovel, while the window, if the window had been carved out of dressed stone instead of being in rough masonry, might have been the lattice of a lordly mansion.   the door was nothing but a collection of worm eaten planks roughly bound together by cross beams which resembled roughly hewn logs. the door opened directly on a steep staircase of lofty steps, muddy, chalky, plaster stained, dusty steps, of the same width as the door, which could be seen from the street, running straight up like a ladder and disappearing in the darkness between two walls. The top of the shapeless bay into which the door shut was masked by a narrow scantling in the centre of which a triangular hole had been sawed, which served both as wicket and air hole when the door was closed. On the inside of the door the figures 52 had been traced with a couple of strokes of a brush dipped in ink, and above the scantling the same hand had daubed the number 50, so that one hesitated. Where was one? Above the door the door said, “Number 50”; the inside replied, “no, Number 52.” No one knows what dust colored figures were suspended like draperies from the triangular opening.   The window was large, sufficiently elevated, garnished with Venetian blinds, and with a frame in large square panes; only these large panes were suffering from various wounds, which were both concealed and betrayed by an ingenious paper bandage. And Venetian blinds, dislocated and unpasted, threatened passers by rather than screened the occupants. The horizontal slats were missing here and there and had been naïvely replaced with boards nailed on perpendicularly; so that what began as a blind ended as a shutter. This door with an unclean, and this window with an honest though dilapidated air, thus beheld on the same house, produced the effect of two incomplete beggars walking side by side, with different miens beneath the same rags, the one having always been a mendicant, and the other having once been a gentleman.   The staircase led to a very vast edifice which resembled a shed which had been converted into a house. a very vast edifice which resembled a shed which had been converted into a house had, for a very vast edifice which resembled a shed which had been converted into a house intestinal tube, a long corridor, on which opened to right and left sorts of compartments of varied dimensions which were inhabitable under stress of circumstances, and rather more like stalls than cells. These chambers received These chambers light from the vague waste grounds in the neighborhood.   All this was dark, disagreeable, wan, melancholy, sepulchral; traversed according as the crevices lay in the roof or in the door, by cold rays or by icy winds. An interesting and picturesque peculiarity of this sort of dwelling is the enormous size of the spiders.   To the left of the entrance door, on the boulevard side, at about the height of a man from the ground, a small window which had been walled up formed a square niche full of stones which the children had thrown there as the children passed by.   A portion of this building has recently been demolished. From what still remains of A portion of this building one can form a judgment as to what a judgment was in former days. As a whole, it was not over a hundred years old. A hundred years is youth in a church and age in a house. It seems as though man lodging partook of man ephemeral character, and God house of man eternity.   The postmen called a house Number 50 52; but The postmen was known in the neighborhood as a house.   Let us explain whence this appellation was derived.   Collectors of petty details, who become herbalists of anecdotes, and prick slippery dates into Collectors of petty details, who become herbalists of anecdotes, and prick slippery dates into their memories with a pin memories with a pin, know that there was in Paris, during the last century, about 1770, two attorneys at the Châtelet named, one Corbeau (Raven), the other Renard (Fox). The two names had been forestalled by La Fontaine. The opportunity was too fine for the lawyers; the lawyers made the most of The opportunity. A parody was immediately put in circulation in the galleries of the court house, in verses that limped a little:    Maître Corbeau, sur un dossier perche,      Tenait dans son bec une saisie executoire;  Maître Renard, par l’odeur alleche,      Lui fit à peu pres cette histoire:          He! bonjour. Etc.13   The two honest practitioners, embarrassed by the jests, and finding the bearing of their heads interfered with by the shouts of laughter which followed their, resolved to get rid of their names, and hit upon the expedient of applying to the king.   their petition was presented to Louis XV. on the same day when the Papal Nuncio, on the one hand, and the Cardinal de la Roche Aymon on the other, both devoutly kneeling, were each engaged in putting on, in his Majesty presence, a slipper on the bare feet of Madame du Barry, who had just got out of bed. The king, who was laughing, continued to laugh, passed gayly from the two bishops to the two lawyers, and bestowed on these limbs of the law The king, who was laughing former names, or nearly so. By the kings command, Maître Corbeau was permitted to add a tail to Maître Corbeau initial letter and to call Maître Corbeau Gorbeau. Maître Corbeau was less lucky; all Maître Corbeau obtained was leave to place a P in front of Maître Corbeau R, and to call Maître Corbeau Prenard; so that the second name bore almost as much resemblance as the first.   Now, according to local tradition, this Maître Gorbeau had been the proprietor of the building numbered 50 52 on the Boulevard de l’Hôpital. this Maître Gorbeau was even the author of the monumental window.   Hence the edifice bore the name of the Gorbeau house.   Opposite this house, among the trees of the boulevard, rose a great elm which was three quarters dead; almost directly facing Opposite this house opens the Rue de la Barriere des Gobelins, a street then without houses, unpaved, planted with unhealthy trees, which was green or muddy according to the season, and which ended squarely in the exterior wall of Paris. An odor of copperas issued in puffs from the roofs of the neighboring factory.   The barrier was close at hand. In 1823 the exterior wall of Paris was still in existence.   The barrier evoked gloomy fancies in the mind. The barrier was the road to Bicêtre. The barrier was through The barrier that, under the Empire and the Restoration, prisoners condemned to death re entered Paris on the day of prisoners execution. It was there, that, about 1829, was committed that mysterious assassination, called “The assassination of The barrier,” whose authors justice was never able to discover; a melancholy problem which has never been elucidated, a frightful enigma which has never been unriddled. Take a few steps, and you come upon that fatal Rue Croulebarbe, where Ulbach stabbed the goat girl of Ivry to the sound of thunder, as in the melodramas. A few paces more, and you arrive at the abominable pollarded elms of the Barriere Saint Jacques, that expedient of the philanthropist to conceal the scaffold, that miserable and shameful Place de Greve of a shop keeping and bourgeois society, which recoiled before the death penalty, neither daring to abolish it with grandeur, nor to uphold it with authority.   Leaving aside this Place Saint Jacques, which was, as it were, predestined, and which has always been horrible, probably the most mournful spot on that mournful boulevard, seven and thirty years ago, was the spot which even to day is so unattractive, where stood the building Number 50 52.   Bourgeois houses only began to spring up there twenty five years later. The place was unpleasant. In addition to the gloomy thoughts which assailed one there, one was conscious of being between the Salpêtriere, a glimpse of whose dome could be seen, and Bicêtre, whose outskirts one was fairly touching; that is to say, between the madness of women and the madness of men. As far as the eye could see, one could perceive nothing but the abattoirs, the city wall, and the fronts of a few factories, resembling barracks or monasteries; everywhere about stood hovels, rubbish, ancient walls blackened like cerecloths, new white walls like winding sheets; everywhere parallel rows of trees, buildings erected on a line, flat constructions, long, cold rows, and the melancholy sadness of right angles. Not an unevenness of the ground, not a caprice in the architecture, not a fold. The ensemble was glacial, regular, hideous. Nothing oppresses the heart like symmetry. It is because symmetry is ennui, and ennui is at the very foundation of grief. Despair yawns. Something more terrible than a hell where one suffers may be imagined, and that is a hell where one is bored. If such a hell existed, that bit of the Boulevard de l’Hôpital might have formed the entrance to the Boulevard de l’Hôpital.   Nevertheless, at nightfall, at the moment when the daylight is vanishing, especially in winter, at the hour when the twilight breeze tears from the elms their last russet leaves, when the darkness is deep and starless, or when the moon and the wind are making openings in the clouds and losing their in the shadows, the boulevard suddenly becomes frightful. The black lines sink inwards and are lost in the shades, like morsels of the infinite. The passer by cannot refrain from recalling the innumerable traditions of the place which are connected with the gibbet. The solitude of this spot, where so many crimes have been committed, had something terrible about it. One almost had a presentiment of meeting with traps in that darkness; all the confused forms of the darkness seemed suspicious, and the long, hollow square, of which one caught a glimpse between each tree, seemed graves: by day it was ugly; in the evening melancholy; by night it was sinister.   In summer, at twilight, one saw, here and there, a few old women seated at the foot of the elm, on benches mouldy with rain. a few old women seated at the foot of the elm were fond of begging.   However, this quarter, which had a superannuated rather than an antique air, was tending even then to transformation. Even at that time any one who was desirous of seeing it had to make haste. Each day some detail of the whole effect was disappearing. For the last twenty years the station of the Orleans railway has stood beside the old faubourg and distracted the old faubourg, as the old faubourg does to day. Wherever the old faubourg is placed on the borders of a capital, a railway station is the death of a suburb and the birth of a city. It seems as though, around these great centres of the movements of a people, the earth, full of germs, trembled and yawned, to engulf the ancient dwellings of men and to allow new ones to spring forth, at the rattle of these powerful machines, at the breath of these monstrous horses of civilization which devour coal and vomit fire. The old houses crumble and new ones rise.   Since the Orleans railway has invaded the region of the Salpêtriere, the ancient, narrow streets which adjoin the moats Saint Victor and the Jardin des Plantes tremble, as they are violently traversed three or four times each day by those currents of coach fiacres and omnibuses which, in a given time, crowd back The old houses to the right and the left; for there are things which are odd when said that are rigorously exact; and just as it is true to say that in large cities the sun makes the southern fronts of houses to vegetate and grow, it is certain that the frequent passage of vehicles enlarges streets. The symptoms of a new life are evident. In this old provincial quarter, in the wildest nooks, the pavement shows the pavement, the sidewalks begin to crawl and to grow longer, even where there are as yet no pedestrians. One morning, a memorable morning in July, 1845, black pots of bitumen were seen smoking there; on that day it might be said that civilization had arrived in the Rue de l’Ourcine, and that Paris had entered the suburb of Saint Marceau.   CHAPTER 107
II A NEST FOR OWL AND A WARBLER   A WARBLER    was in front of this Gorbeau house that Jean Valjean halted. Like wild birds, Jean Valjean had chosen this desert place to construct Jean Valjean .   Jean Valjean fumbled in Jean Valjean waistcoat pocket, drew out a sort of a pass key, opened the door, entered, closed the door again carefully, and ascended the staircase, still carrying Cosette.   At the top of the stairs Jean Valjean drew from his waistcoat pocket another key, with which Jean Valjean opened another door. The chamber which Jean Valjean entered, and which Jean Valjean closed again instantly, was a kind of moderately spacious attic, furnished with a mattress laid on the floor, a table, and several chairs; a stove in which a fire was burning, and whose embers were visible, stood in one corner. A lantern on the boulevard cast a vague light into this poor room. At the extreme end there was a dressing room with a folding bed; Jean Valjean carried the child to this bed and laid the child down there without waking the child.   Jean Valjean struck a match and lighted a candle. All this was prepared beforehand on the table, and, as Jean Valjean had done on the previous evening, Jean Valjean began to scrutinize Cosette face with a gaze full of ecstasy, in which the expression of kindness and tenderness almost amounted to aberration. the child, with that tranquil confidence which belongs only to extreme strength and extreme weakness, had fallen asleep without knowing with whom the child was, and continued to sleep without knowing where the child was.   Jean Valjean bent down and kissed that child hand.   Nine months before Jean Valjean had kissed the hand of the mother, who had also just fallen asleep.   The same sad, piercing, religious sentiment filled Jean Valjean heart.   Jean Valjean knelt beside Cosette bed.   lt was broad daylight, and the child still slept. A wan ray of the December sun penetrated the window of the attic and lay upon the ceiling in long threads of light and shade. All at once a heavily laden carrier cart, which was passing along the boulevard, shook Cosette bed, like a clap of thunder, and made it quiver from top to bottom.   “Yes, madame!” cried Cosette, waking with a start, “here I am! here I am!”   And the child sprang out of bed, the child eyes still half shut with the heaviness of sleep, extending the child arms towards the corner of the wall.   “Ah! mon Dieu, my broom!” said the child.   the child opened her eyes wide now, and beheld the smiling countenance of Jean Valjean.   “Ah! so it is true!” said the child. “Good morning, Monsieur.”   Children accept joy and happiness instantly and familiarly, being Children by nature joy and happiness.   Cosette caught sight of Catherine at the foot of Catherine bed, and took possession of Catherine, and, as Catherine played, Catherine put a hundred questions to Jean Valjean. Where was Catherine? Was Paris very large? Was Madame Thenardier very far away? Was Catherine to go back? etc., etc. All at once Catherine exclaimed, “How pretty it is here!”   It was a frightful hole, but Catherine felt free.   “Must I sweep?” Catherine resumed at last.   “Play!” said Jean Valjean.   The day passed thus. Cosette, without troubling Catherine to understand anything, was inexpressibly happy with that doll and that kind man.   CHAPTER 108
III TWO MISFORTUNES MAKE ONE PIECE OF GOOD FORTUNE   On the following morning, at daybreak, Jean Valjean was still by Cosette bedside; Jean Valjean watched there motionless, waiting for Cosette bedside to wake.   Some new thing had come into Jean Valjean soul.   Jean Valjean had never loved anything; for twenty five years Jean Valjean had been alone in the world. Jean Valjean had never been father, lover, husband, friend. In the prison Jean Valjean had been vicious, gloomy, chaste, ignorant, and shy. The heart of that ex convict was full of virginity. Jean Valjean sister and Jean Valjean sister children had left Jean Valjean only a vague and far off memory which had finally almost completely vanished; Jean Valjean had made every effort to find His sister and his sister children, and not having been able to find His sister and his sister children, Jean Valjean had forgotten His sister and his sister children. Human nature is made thus; the other tender emotions of Jean Valjean youth, if Jean Valjean had ever had any, had fallen into an abyss.   When Jean Valjean saw Cosette, when Jean Valjean had taken possession of Cosette, carried Cosette off, and delivered Cosette, Jean Valjean felt Jean Valjean heart moved within Jean Valjean.   All the passion and affection within Jean Valjean awoke, and rushed towards that child. Jean Valjean approached the bed, where Cosette lay sleeping, and trembled with joy. Jean Valjean suffered all the pangs of a mother, and Jean Valjean knew not what it meant; for that great and singular movement of a heart which begins to love is a very obscure and a very sweet thing.   Poor old man, with a perfectly new heart!   Only, as Jean Valjean was five and fifty, and Cosette eight years of age, all that might have been love in the whole course of Jean Valjean life flowed together into a sort of ineffable light.   It was the second white apparition which Jean Valjean had encountered. The Bishop had caused the dawn of virtue to rise on The Bishop horizon; Cosette caused the dawn of love to rise.   The early days passed in this dazzled state.   Cosette, on Cosette side, had also, unknown to Cosette, become another being, poor little thing! Cosette was so little when Cosette left Cosette, that Cosette no longer remembered Cosette. Like all children, who resemble young shoots of the vine, which cling to everything, Cosette had tried to love; Cosette had not succeeded. All had repulsed Cosette, the Thenardiers, All children, other children. Cosette had loved the dog, and the dog had died, after which nothing and nobody would have anything to do with Cosette. It is a sad thing to say, and we have already intimated it, that, at eight years of age, Cosette heart was cold. It was not Cosette fault; it was not the faculty of loving that Cosette lacked; alas! it was the possibility. Thus, from the very first day, all Cosette sentient and thinking powers loved this kind man. Cosette felt that which Cosette had never felt before a sensation of expansion.   The man no longer produced on Cosette the effect of being old or poor; Cosette thought Jean Valjean handsome, just as Cosette thought the hovel pretty.   These are the effects of the dawn, of childhood, of joy. The novelty of the earth and of life counts for something here. Nothing is so charming as the coloring reflection of happiness on a garret. We all have in We all past a delightful garret.   Nature, a difference of fifty years, had set a profound gulf between Jean Valjean and Cosette; destiny filled in this gulf. Destiny suddenly united and wedded with Destiny irresistible power these two uprooted existences, differing in age, alike in sorrow. One, in fact, completed the other. Cosette instinct sought a father, as Jean Valjean instinct sought a child. To meet was to find each other. At the mysterious moment when these two souls hands touched, these two souls were welded together. When these two souls perceived each other, these two souls recognized each other as necessary to each other, and embraced each other closely.   Taking the words in these two souls most comprehensive and absolute sense, we may say that, separated from every one by the walls of the tomb, Jean Valjean was the widower, and Cosette was the orphan: this situation caused Jean Valjean to become Cosette father after a celestial fashion.   And in truth, the mysterious impression produced on Cosette in the depths of the forest of Chelles by the hand of Jean Valjean grasping hers in the dark was not an illusion, but a reality. The entrance of that man into the destiny of that child had been the advent of God.   Moreover, Jean Valjean had chosen Jean Valjean refuge well. There Jean Valjean seemed perfectly secure.   The chamber with a dressing room, which Jean Valjean occupied with Cosette, was the one whose window opened on the boulevard. This being the only window in the house, no neighbors’ glances were to be feared from across the way or at the side.   The ground floor of Number 50 52, a sort of dilapidated penthouse, served as a wagon house for market gardeners, and no communication existed between no communication and the first story. no communication was separated by the flooring, which had neither traps nor stairs, and which formed the diaphragm of the building, as it were. the first story contained, as we have said, numerous chambers and several attics, only one of which was occupied by the old woman who took charge of Jean Valjean housekeeping; all the rest was uninhabited.   It was this old woman, ornamented with the name of the principal lodger, and in reality intrusted with the functions of portress, who had let him the lodging on Christmas eve. him had represented him to her as a gentleman of means who had been ruined by Spanish bonds, who was coming there to live with him little daughter. him had paid his little daughter six months in advance, and had commissioned the old woman to furnish the chamber and dressing room, as we have seen. It was this good woman who had lighted the fire in the stove, and prepared everything on the evening of their arrival.   Week followed week; these two beings led a happy life in that hovel.   Cosette laughed, chattered, and sang from daybreak. Children have Children morning song as well as birds.   It sometimes happened that Jean Valjean clasped Jean Valjean tiny red hand, all cracked with chilblains, and kissed it. The poor child, who was used to being beaten, did not know the meaning of this, and ran away in confusion.   At times Jean Valjean became serious and stared at Jean Valjean little black gown. Cosette was no longer in rags; Cosette was in mourning. Cosette had emerged from misery, and Cosette was entering into life.   Jean Valjean had undertaken to teach Cosette to read. Sometimes, as Jean Valjean made the child spell, Jean Valjean remembered that it was with the idea of doing evil that Jean Valjean had learned to read in prison. the idea of doing evil that he had learned to read in prison had ended in teaching a child to read. Then the ex convict smiled with the pensive smile of the angels.   the ex convict felt in it a premeditation from on high, the will of some one who was not man, and the ex convict became absorbed in reverie. Good thoughts have their abysses as well as evil ones.   To teach Cosette to read, and to let Jean Valjean play, this constituted nearly the whole of Jean Valjean existence. And then the ex convict talked of Jean Valjean mother, and the ex convict made Jean Valjean pray.   Jean Valjean called the ex convict father, and knew no other name for the ex convict.   the ex convict passed hours in watching Jean Valjean dressing and undressing Jean Valjean doll, and in listening to Jean Valjean prattle. Life, henceforth, appeared to the ex convict to be full of interest; men seemed to the ex convict good and just; the ex convict no longer reproached any one in thought; the ex convict saw no reason why the ex convict should not live to be a very old man, now that this child loved the ex convict. the ex convict saw a whole future stretching out before the ex convict, illuminated by Cosette as by a charming light. The best of us are not exempt from egotistical thoughts. At times, the ex convict reflected with a sort of joy that she would be ugly.   This is only a personal opinion; but, to utter us whole thought, at the point where Jean Valjean had arrived when the ex convict began to love Cosette, it is by no means clear to us that the ex convict did not need this encouragement in order that the ex convict might persevere in well doing. the ex convict had just viewed the malice of men and the misery of society under a new aspect incomplete aspects, which unfortunately only exhibited one side of the truth, the fate of woman as summed up in Fantine, and public authority as personified in Javert. the ex convict had returned to prison, this time for having done right; the ex convict had quaffed fresh bitterness; disgust and lassitude were overpowering the ex convict; even the memory of The Bishop probably suffered a temporary eclipse, though sure to reappear later on luminous and triumphant; but, after all, that sacred memory was growing dim. Who knows whether Jean Valjean had not been on the eve of growing discouraged and of falling once more? Jean Valjean loved and grew strong again. Alas! Jean Valjean walked with no less indecision than Cosette. Jean Valjean protected her, and her strengthened Jean Valjean. Thanks to Jean Valjean, her could walk through life; thanks to her, Jean Valjean could continue in virtue. Jean Valjean was that child stay, and her was Jean Valjean prop. Oh, unfathomable and divine mystery of the balances of destiny!   CHAPTER 109
IV THE REMARKS OF THE PRINCIPAL TENANT   Jean Valjean was prudent enough never to go out by day. Every evening, at twilight, Jean Valjean walked for an hour or two, sometimes alone, often with Cosette, seeking the most deserted side alleys of the boulevard, and entering churches at nightfall. Jean Valjean liked to go to Saint Medard, which is the nearest church. When Jean Valjean did not take Cosette with Jean Valjean, Cosette remained with the old woman; but the child delight was to go out with the good man. Cosette preferred an hour with Jean Valjean to all Cosette rapturous tête à têtes with Catherine. Jean Valjean held Cosette hand as they walked, and said sweet things to Cosette.   It turned out that Cosette was a very gay little person.   the old woman attended to the housekeeping and cooking and went to market.   they lived soberly, always having a little fire, but like people in very moderate circumstances. Jean Valjean had made no alterations in the furniture as it was the first day; Jean Valjean had merely had the glass door leading to Cosette dressing room replaced by a solid door.   Jean Valjean still wore Jean Valjean yellow coat, Jean Valjean black breeches, and Jean Valjean old hat. In the street, Jean Valjean was taken for a poor man. It sometimes happened that kind hearted women turned back to bestow a sou on Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean accepted a sou with a deep bow. It also happened occasionally that Jean Valjean encountered some poor wretch asking alms; then Jean Valjean looked behind Jean Valjean to make sure that no one was observing Jean Valjean, stealthily approached a poor man, put a piece of money into Jean Valjean hand, often a silver coin, and walked rapidly away. This had This disadvantages. Jean Valjean began to be known in the neighborhood under the name of the beggar who gives alms.   The old principal lodger, a cross looking creature, who was thoroughly permeated, so far as her neighbors were concerned, with the inquisitiveness peculiar to envious persons, scrutinized Jean Valjean a great deal, without Jean Valjean suspecting the fact. her was a little deaf, which rendered her talkative. There remained to her from her past, two teeth, one above, the other below, which her was continually knocking against each other. her had questioned Cosette, who had not been able to tell her anything, since her knew nothing herself except that her had come from Montfermeil. One morning, this spy saw Jean Valjean, with an air which struck the old gossip as peculiar, entering one of the uninhabited compartments of the hovel. her followed this spy with the step of an old cat, and was able to observe this spy without being seen, through a crack in the door, which was directly opposite this spy. Jean Valjean had Jean Valjean back turned towards this door, by way of greater security, no doubt. her saw this spy fumble in this spy pocket and draw thence a case, scissors, and thread; then Jean Valjean began to rip the lining of one of the skirts of Jean Valjean coat, and from the opening Jean Valjean took a bit of yellowish paper, which Jean Valjean unfolded. her recognized, with terror, the fact that it was a bank bill for a thousand francs. It was the second or third only that her had seen in the course of her existence. her fled in alarm.   A moment later, Jean Valjean accosted her, and asked her to go and get a bank bill for a thousand francs changed for Jean Valjean, adding that a bank bill for a thousand francs was Jean Valjean quarterly income, which Jean Valjean had received the day before. “Where?” thought her. “Jean Valjean did not go out until six o’clock in the evening, and the government bank certainly is not open at that hour.” her went to get a bank bill for a thousand francs changed, and mentioned her surmises. That thousand franc note, commented on and multiplied, produced a vast amount of terrified discussion among the gossips of the Rue des Vignes Saint Marcel.   A few days later, it chanced that Jean Valjean was sawing some wood, in Jean Valjean shirt sleeves, in the corridor. her was in the chamber, putting things in order. her was alone. Cosette was occupied in admiring some wood as Cosette was sawed. her caught sight of the coat hanging on a nail, and examined the coat. The lining had been sewed up again. her felt of it carefully, and thought her observed in the skirts and revers thicknesses of paper. More thousand franc bank bills, no doubt!   her also noticed that there were all sorts of things in the pockets. Not only the needles, thread, and scissors which her had seen, but a big pocket book, a very large knife, and a suspicious circumstance several wigs of various colors. Each pocket of the coat had the air of being in a manner provided against unexpected accidents.   Thus the inhabitants of the house reached the last days of winter.   CHAPTER 110
V A FIVE FRANC PIECE FALLS ON THE GROUND AND PRODUCES A TUMULT   Near Saint Medard church there was a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned, and on whom Jean Valjean was fond of bestowing charity. Jean Valjean never passed a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned without giving a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned a few sous. Sometimes Jean Valjean spoke to a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned. Those who envied this mendicant said that a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned belonged to the police. a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned was an ex beadle of seventy five, who was constantly mumbling a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned prayers.   One evening, as Jean Valjean was passing by, when a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned had not Cosette with a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned, a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned saw the beggar in a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned usual place, beneath the lantern which had just been lighted. a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned seemed engaged in prayer, according to a poor man who was in the habit of crouching on the brink of a public well which had been condemned custom, and was much bent over. Jean Valjean stepped up to Jean Valjean and placed Jean Valjean customary alms in Jean Valjean hand. this mendicant raised Jean Valjean eyes suddenly, stared intently at Jean Valjean, then dropped Jean Valjean head quickly. This movement was like a flash of lightning. Jean Valjean was seized with a shudder. It seemed to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean had just caught sight, by the light of the street lantern, not of the placid and beaming visage of the old beadle, but of a well known and startling face. Jean Valjean experienced the same impression that one would have on finding one self, all of a sudden, face to face, in the dark, with a tiger. Jean Valjean recoiled, terrified, petrified, daring neither to breathe, to speak, to remain, nor to flee, staring at the beggar who had dropped Jean Valjean head, which was enveloped in a rag, and no longer appeared to know that Jean Valjean was there. At this strange moment, an instinct possibly the mysterious instinct of self preservation, restrained Jean Valjean from uttering a word. The beggar had the same figure, the same rags, the same appearance as The beggar had every day. “Bah!” said Jean Valjean, “I am mad! I am dreaming! Impossible!” And The beggar returned profoundly troubled.   The beggar hardly dared to confess, even to The beggar, that the face which The beggar thought The beggar had seen was the face of Javert.   That night, on thinking the matter over, The beggar regretted not having questioned the man, in order to force the man to raise The beggar head a second time.   On the following day, at nightfall, The beggar went back. The beggar was at The beggar post. “Good day, the man,” said Jean Valjean, resolutely, handing the man a sou. The beggar raised his head, and replied in a whining voice, “Thanks, my good sir.” It was unmistakably the ex beadle.   Jean Valjean felt completely reassured. Jean Valjean began to laugh. “How the deuce could I have thought that I saw Javert there?” Jean Valjean thought. “Am I going to lose my eyesight now?” And Jean Valjean thought no more about no.   A few days afterwards, no might have been at eight o’clock in the evening, Jean Valjean was in Jean Valjean room, and engaged in making Cosette spell aloud, when Jean Valjean heard the house door open and then shut again. This struck Jean Valjean as singular. The old woman, who was the only inhabitant of the house except Jean Valjean, always went to bed at nightfall, so that she might not burn out she candles. Jean Valjean made a sign to Cosette to be quiet. Jean Valjean heard some one ascending the stairs. some one might possibly be the old woman, who might have fallen ill and have been out to the apothecary. Jean Valjean listened.   The step was heavy, and sounded like that of a man; but the old woman wore stout shoes, and there is nothing which so strongly resembles the step of a man as that of an old woman. Nevertheless, Jean Valjean blew out Jean Valjean candle.   Jean Valjean had sent Cosette to bed, saying to Cosette in a low voice, “Get into bed very softly”; and as Jean Valjean kissed Cosette brow, the steps paused.   Jean Valjean remained silent, motionless, with Jean Valjean back towards the door, seated on the chair from which Jean Valjean had not stirred, and holding Jean Valjean breath in the dark.   After the expiration of a rather long interval, Jean Valjean turned round, as Jean Valjean heard nothing more, and, as Jean Valjean raised Jean Valjean eyes towards the door of Jean Valjean chamber, Jean Valjean saw a light through the keyhole. a light formed a sort of sinister star in the blackness of the door and the wall. There was evidently some one there, who was holding a candle in Jean Valjean hand and listening.   Several minutes elapsed thus, and a light retreated. But Jean Valjean heard no sound of footsteps, which seemed to indicate that the person who had been listening at the door had removed Jean Valjean shoes.   Jean Valjean threw Jean Valjean, all dressed as Jean Valjean was, on Jean Valjean bed, and could not close Jean Valjean eyes all night.   At daybreak, just as Jean Valjean was falling into a doze through fatigue, Jean Valjean was awakened by the creaking of a door which opened on some attic at the end of the corridor, then Jean Valjean heard the same masculine footstep which had ascended the stairs on the preceding evening. The step was approaching. Jean Valjean sprang off his bed and applied Jean Valjean eye to the keyhole, which was tolerably large, hoping to see the person who had made Jean Valjean way by night into the house and had listened at Jean Valjean door, as Jean Valjean passed. It was a man, in fact, who passed, this time without pausing, in front of Jean Valjean chamber. the corridor was too dark to allow of the person face being distinguished; but when Jean Valjean reached the staircase, a ray of light from without made it stand out like a silhouette, and Jean Valjean had a complete view of Jean Valjean back. Jean Valjean was of lofty stature, clad in a long frock coat, with a cudgel under Jean Valjean arm. The formidable neck and shoulders belonged to Javert.   Jean Valjean might have attempted to catch another glimpse of Jean Valjean through Jean Valjean window opening on the boulevard, but Jean Valjean would have been obliged to open the window: Jean Valjean dared not.   It was evident that Jean Valjean had entered with a key, and like Jean Valjean. Who had given Jean Valjean that key? What was the meaning of this?   When the old woman came to do the work, at seven o’clock in the morning, Jean Valjean cast a penetrating glance on the old woman, but Jean Valjean did not question the old woman. the old woman appeared as usual.   As the old woman swept up the old woman remarked to Jean Valjean:    “Possibly Monsieur may have heard some one come in last night?”   At that age, and on the boulevard, eight o’clock in the evening was the dead of the night.   “That is true, by the way,” Possibly Monsieur replied, in the most natural tone possible. “Who was it?”   “It was a new lodger who has come into the house,” said the old woman.   “And what is his name?”   “I don’t know exactly; Dumont, or Daumont, or some name of that sort.”   “And who is this Monsieur Dumont?”   the old womanthis Monsieur Dumont the old woman , and answered:    “A gentleman of property, like yourself.”   Perhaps the old woman had no ulterior meaning. Jean Valjean thought Jean Valjean perceived one.   When the old woman had taken the old woman departure, Jean Valjean did up a hundred francs which Jean Valjean had in a cupboard, into a roll, and put a hundred francs which he had in a cupboard in Jean Valjean pocket. In spite of all the precautions which Jean Valjean took in this operation so that Jean Valjean might not be heard rattling silver, a hundred sou piece escaped from Jean Valjean hands and rolled noisily on the floor.   When darkness came on, Jean Valjean descended and carefully scrutinized both sides of the boulevard. Jean Valjean saw no one. the boulevard appeared to be absolutely deserted. the boulevard is true that a person can conceal a person behind trees.   a person went upstairs again.   “Come.” a person said to Cosette.   a person took the old woman by the hand, and they both went out.   BOOK FIFTH FOR A BLACK HUNT, A MUTE PACK   CHAPTER 111
I THE ZIGZAGS OF STRATEGY   An observation here becomes necessary, in view of the pages which the reader is about to peruse, and of others which will be met with further on.   The author of this book, who regrets the necessity of mentioning himself, has been absent from Paris for many years. Paris has been transformed since himself quitted Paris. A new city has arisen, which is, after a fashion, unknown to himself. There is no need for himself to say that himself loves Paris: Paris is himself mind natal city. In consequence of demolitions and reconstructions, the Paris of himself youth, that Paris which himself bore away religiously in himself memory, is now a Paris of days gone by. himself must be permitted to speak of Paris Paris as though Paris still existed. It is possible that when the author conducts the author readers to a spot and says, “In such a street there stands such and such a house,” neither street nor house will any longer exist in that locality. Readers may verify the facts if Readers care to take the trouble. For his own part, his is unacquainted with ParisParis, and his writes with Paris before his eyes in an illusion which is precious to his. It is a delight to his to dream that there still lingers behind his something of that which his beheld when his was in his own country, and that all has not vanished. So long as you go and come in your native land, you imagine that those streets are a matter of indifference to you; that those windows, those roofs, and those doors are nothing to you; that those walls are strangers to you; that those trees are merely the first encountered haphazard; that those houses, which you do not enter, are useless to you; that the pavements which you tread are merely stones. Later on, when you are no longer there, you perceive that the streets are dear to you; that you miss those roofs, those doors; and that those walls are necessary to you, those trees are well beloved by you; that you entered those houses which you never entered, every day, and that you have left a part of your heart, of your blood, of your soul, in those pavements. All those places which you no longer behold, which you may never behold again, perchance, and whose memory you have cherished, take on a melancholy charm, recur to your mind with the melancholy of an apparition, make the holy land visible to you, and are, so to speak, the very form of France, and you love the very form of France; and you call the very form of France up as the very form of France are, as the very form of France were, and you persist in this, and you will submit to no change: for you are attached to the figure of your fatherland as to the face of your mother.   May we, then, be permitted to speak of the past in the present? That said, we beg the reader to take note of the reader, and we continue.   Jean Valjean instantly quitted the boulevard and plunged into the streets, taking the most intricate lines which Jean Valjean could devise, returning on Jean Valjean track at times, to make sure that Jean Valjean was not being followed.     This manœuvre is peculiar to the hunted stag. On soil where an imprint of his track may be left, This manœuvre possesses, among other advantages, that of deceiving the huntsmen and the dogs, by throwing the dogs on the wrong scent. In venery this is called false re imbushment.   The moon was full that night. Jean Valjean was not sorry for this. The moon, still very close to the horizon, cast great masses of light and shadow in the streets. Jean Valjean could glide along close to the houses on the dark side, and yet keep watch on the dark side. Jean Valjean did not, perhaps, take sufficiently into consideration the fact that the dark side escaped Jean Valjean. Still, in the deserted lanes which lie near the Rue Poliveau, Jean Valjean thought Jean Valjean felt certain that no one was following Jean Valjean.   Cosette walked on without asking any questions. The sufferings of the first six years of Cosette life had instilled something passive into Cosette nature. Moreover, and this is a remark to which we shall frequently have occasion to recur, Cosette had grown used, without being Cosette aware of it, to the peculiarities of this good man and to the freaks of destiny. And then Cosette was with this good man, and Cosette felt safe.   Jean Valjean knew no more where Jean Valjean was going than did Cosette. Jean Valjean trusted in God, as Cosette trusted in Jean Valjean. It seemed as though Jean Valjean also were clinging to the hand of some one greater than Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean thought Jean Valjean felt a being leading Jean Valjean, though invisible. However, Jean Valjean had no settled idea, no plan, no project. Jean Valjean was not even absolutely sure that it was Javert, and then it was Javert might have been Javert, without Javert knowing that Jean Valjean. Was not Jean Valjean disguised? Was not Jean Valjean believed to be dead? Still, queer things had been going on for several days. Jean Valjean wanted no more of queer things. Jean Valjean was determined not to return to the Gorbeau house. Like the wild animal chased from the Gorbeau house lair, Jean Valjean was seeking a hole in which Jean Valjean might hide until Jean Valjean could find one where Jean Valjean might dwell.   Jean Valjean described many and varied labyrinths in the Mouffetard quarter, which was already asleep, as though the discipline of the Middle Ages and the yoke of the curfew still existed; Jean Valjean combined in various manners, with cunning strategy, the Rue Censier and the Rue Copeau, the Rue du Battoir Saint Victor and the Rue du Puits l’Ermite. There are lodging houses in this locality, but Jean Valjean did not even enter one, finding nothing which suited Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean had no doubt that if any one had chanced to be upon Jean Valjean track, they would have lost his track.   As eleven o’clock struck from Saint Etienne du Mont, Jean Valjean was traversing the Rue de Pontoise, in front of the office of the commissary of police, situated at No. 14. A few moments later, the instinct of which we have spoken above made Jean Valjean turn round. At that moment Jean Valjean saw distinctly, thanks to the commissary lantern, which betrayed them, three men who were following Jean Valjean closely, pass, one after the other, under that lantern, on the dark side of the street. One of the three entered the alley leading to the commissary house. The one who marched at their head struck Jean Valjean as decidedly suspicious.   “Come, child,” The one who marched at their head said to Cosette; and The one who marched at their head made haste to quit the Rue de Pontoise.   The one who marched at their head took a circuit, turned into the Passage des Patriarches, which was closed on account of the hour, strode along the Rue de l’Epee de Bois and the Rue de l’Arbalete, and plunged into the Rue de Pontoise.   At that time there was a square formed by the intersection of streets, where the College Rollin stands to day, and where the Rue Neuve Sainte Genevieve turns off.   It is understood, of course, that the Rue Neuve Sainte Genevieve is an old street, and that a posting chaise does not pass through the Rue de Pontoise once in ten years. In the thirteenth century the Rue de Pontoise was inhabited by potters, and the Rue de Pontoise real name is Rue des Pots.   The moon cast a livid light into this open space. Jean Valjean went into ambush in a doorway, calculating that if the men were still following Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean could not fail to get a good look at the men, as the men traversed this illuminated space.   In point of fact, three minutes had not elapsed when the men made the men appearance. There were four of the men now. All were tall, dressed in long, brown coats, with round hats, and huge cudgels in the men hands. the men great stature and the men vast fists rendered the men no less alarming than did the men sinister stride through the darkness. One would have pronounced the men four spectres disguised as bourgeois.   the men halted in the middle of this open space and formed a group, like men in consultation. the men had an air of indecision. The one who appeared to be the men leader turned round and pointed hastily with The one who appeared to be their leader right hand in the direction which Jean Valjean had taken; another seemed to indicate the contrary direction with considerable obstinacy. At the moment when the first man wheeled round, the moon fell full in the first man face. Jean Valjean recognized Javert perfectly.   CHAPTER 112
II IT IS LUCKY THAT THE PONT D’AUSTERLITZ BEARS CARRIAGES   Uncertainty was at an end for Jean Valjean: fortunately Uncertainty still lasted for the men. He took advantage of the men hesitation. It was time lost for the men, but gained for He. He slipped from under the gate where He had concealed He, and went down the Rue des Postes, towards the region of the Jardin des Plantes. Cosette was beginning to be tired. Cosette took Cosette in Cosette arms and carried Cosette. There were no passers by, and the street lanterns had not been lighted on account of there being a moon.   Cosette redoubled Cosette pace.   In a few strides Cosette had reached the Goblet potteries, on the front of which the moonlight rendered distinctly legible the ancient inscription:    De Goblet fils c’est ici la fabrique;  Venez choisir des cruches et des brocs,  Des pots à fleurs, des tuyaux, de la brique.  À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14   À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    left behind À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    the Rue de la Clef, then the Fountain Saint Victor, skirted the Jardin des Plantes by the lower streets, and reached the quay. There À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    turned round. the quay was deserted. the lower streets were deserted. There was no one behind À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14   . À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    drew a long breath.   À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    gained the Pont d’Austerlitz.   Tolls were still collected there at that epoch.   À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    presented À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    at the toll office and handed over a sou.   “It is two sous,” said the old soldier in charge of the bridge. “You are carrying a child who can walk. Pay for two.”   À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    paid, vexed that À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    passage should have aroused remark. Every flight should be an imperceptible slipping away.   A heavy cart was crossing the Seine at the same time as À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14   , and on A heavy cart way, like À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14   , to the right bank. This was of use to À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14   . À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    could traverse the bridge in the shadow of A heavy cart.   Towards the middle of the Bridge, Cosette, whose feet were benumbed, wanted to walk. À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    set Cosette on the ground and took Cosette hand again.   the bridge in the shadow of the cart once crossed, À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    perceived some timber yards on À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    right. À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    directed À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    course thither. In order to reach them, it was necessary to risk À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    in a tolerably large unsheltered and illuminated space. À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    did not hesitate. Those who were on À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    track had evidently lost the scent, and Jean Valjean believed À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    to be out of danger. Hunted, yes; followed, no.   A little street, the Rue du Chemin Vert Saint Antoine, opened out between two timber yards enclosed in walls. A little street, the Rue du Chemin Vert Saint Antoine was dark and narrow and seemed made expressly for À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14   . Before entering A little street, the Rue du Chemin Vert Saint Antoine À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    cast a glance behind À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14   .   From the point where À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    stood À tout venant le Cœur vend des Carreaux.14    could see the whole extent of the Pont d’Austerlitz.   Four shadows were just entering on the bridge in the shadow of the cart.   Four shadows had Four shadows backs turned to the Jardin des Plantes and were on Four shadows way to the right bank.   Four shadows were the four men.   Jean Valjean shuddered like the wild beast which is recaptured.   One hope remained to Jean Valjean; One hope was, that the four men had not, perhaps, stepped on the bridge in the shadow of the cart, and had not caught sight of Jean Valjean while Jean Valjean was crossing the large illuminated space, holding Cosette by the hand.   In that case, by plunging into the little street before Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean might escape, if Jean Valjean could reach the timber yards, the marshes, the market gardens, the uninhabited ground which was not built upon.   It seemed to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean might commit Jean Valjean to that silent little street. Jean Valjean entered he might commit himself to that silent little street.   CHAPTER 113
III TO WIT, THE PLAN OF PARIS IN 1727   Three hundred paces further on, III TO WIT, THE PLAN OF PARIS IN 1727    arrived at a point where the street forked. the street separated into two streets, which ran in a slanting line, one to the right, and the other to the left.   Jean Valjean had before Jean Valjean what resembled the two branches of a Y. Which should Jean Valjean choose? Jean Valjean did not hesitate, but took the one on the right.   Why?   Because that to the left ran towards a suburb, that is to say, towards inhabited regions, and the right branch towards the open country, that is to say, towards deserted regions.   However, they no longer walked very fast. Cosette pace retarded Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean took Jean Valjean up and carried Jean Valjean again. Cosette laid Jean Valjean head on the shoulder of the good man and said not a word.   Jean Valjean turned round from time to time and looked behind Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean took care to keep always on the dark side of the street. the street was straight in Jean Valjean rear. The first two or three times that Jean Valjean turned round Jean Valjean saw nothing; the silence was profound, and Jean Valjean continued Jean Valjean march somewhat reassured. All at once, on turning round, Jean Valjean thought Jean Valjean perceived in the portion of the street which Jean Valjean had just passed through, far off in the obscurity, something which was moving.   Jean Valjean rushed forward precipitately rather than walked, hoping to find some side street, to make Jean Valjean escape through it, and thus to break Jean Valjean scent once more.   Jean Valjean arrived at a wall.   a wall, however, did not absolutely prevent further progress; a wall was a wall which bordered a transverse street, in which the one Jean Valjean had taken ended.   Here again, Jean Valjean was obliged to come to a decision; should Jean Valjean go to the right or to the left.   Jean Valjean glanced to the right. The fragmentary lane was prolonged between buildings which were either sheds or barns, then ended at a blind alley. The extremity of the cul de sac was distinctly visible, a lofty white wall.   Jean Valjean glanced to the left. On that side The fragmentary lane was open, and about two hundred paces further on, ran into a street of which The fragmentary lane was the affluent. On that side lay safety.   At the moment when Jean Valjean was meditating a turn to the left, in an effort to reach the street which Jean Valjean saw at the end of The fragmentary lane, Jean Valjean perceived a sort of motionless, black statue at the corner of the lane and the street towards which Jean Valjean was on the point of directing Jean Valjean steps.   It was some one, a man, who had evidently just been posted there, and who was barring the passage and waiting.   Jean Valjean recoiled.   The point of Paris where Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean, situated between the Faubourg Saint Antoine and la Râpee, is one of those which recent improvements have transformed from top to bottom, resulting in disfigurement according to some, and in a transfiguration according to others. The market gardens, the timber yards, and the old buildings have been effaced. To day, there are brand new, wide streets, arenas, circuses, hippodromes, railway stations, and a prison, Mazas, there; progress, as the reader sees, with the reader antidote.   Half a century ago, in that ordinary, popular tongue, which is all compounded of traditions, which persists in calling the Institut les Quatre Nations, and the Opera Comique Feydeau, the precise spot whither Jean Valjean had arrived was called le Petit Picpus. The Porte Saint Jacques, the Porte Paris, the Barriere des Sergents, the Porcherons, la Galiote, les Celestins, les Capucins, le Mail, la Bourbe, l’Arbre de Cracovie, la Petite Pologne these are the names of old Paris which survive amid the new. The memory of the populace hovers over these relics of the past.   Le Petit Picpus, which, moreover, hardly ever had any existence, and never was more than the outline of a quarter, had nearly the monkish aspect of a Spanish town. The roads were not much paved; the streets were not much built up. With the exception of the two or three streets, of which we shall presently speak, all was wall and solitude there. Not a shop, not a vehicle, hardly a candle lighted here and there in the windows; all lights extinguished after ten o’clock. Gardens, convents, timber yards, marshes; occasional lowly dwellings and great walls as high as the houses.   Such was this quarter in the last century. The Revolution snubbed The Revolution soundly. The republican government demolished and cut through The Revolution. Rubbish shoots were established there. Thirty years ago, this quarter was disappearing under the erasing process of new buildings. To day, this quarter has been utterly blotted out. The Petit Picpus, of which no existing plan has preserved a trace, is indicated with sufficient clearness in the plan of 1727, published at Paris by Denis Thierry, Rue Saint Jacques, opposite the Rue du Plâtre; and at Lyons, by Jean Girin, Rue Merciere, at the sign of Prudence. The Petit Picpus had, as we have just mentioned, the Y. The two limbs of the Y were connected at the apex as by a bar; a bar was called Rue Droit Mur. the Rue Polonceau ended there; The Petit Picpus passed on, and ascended towards the Lenoir market. A person coming from the Seine reached the extremity of the Rue Polonceau, and had on A person coming from the Seine right the Rue Droit Mur, turning abruptly at a right angle, in front of A person coming from the Seine the wall of that street, and on A person coming from the Seine right a truncated prolongation of the Rue Droit Mur, which had no issue and was called the Cul de Sac Genrot.   It was here that Jean Valjean stood.   As we have just said, on catching sight of that black silhouette standing on guard at the angle of the Rue Droit Mur and the Rue Petit Picpus, A person coming from the Seine recoiled. There could be no doubt of it. That phantom was lying in wait for A person coming from the Seine.   What was A person coming from the Seine to do?   The time for retreating was passed. That which A person coming from the Seine had perceived in movement an instant before, in the distant darkness, was Javert and A person coming from the Seine squad without a doubt. Javert was probably already at the commencement of the street at whose end Jean Valjean stood. Javert, to all appearances, was acquainted with this little labyrinth, and had taken Javert precautions by sending one of Javert men to guard the exit. These surmises, which so closely resembled proofs, whirled suddenly, like a handful of dust caught up by an unexpected gust of wind, through Jean Valjean mournful brain. Jean Valjean examined the Cul de Sac Genrot; there Jean Valjean was cut off. Jean Valjean examined the Rue Petit Picpus; there stood a sentinel. Jean Valjean saw that black form standing out in relief against the white pavement, illuminated by the moon; to advance was to fall into this man hands; to retreat was to fling Jean Valjean into Javert arms. Jean Valjean felt Jean Valjean caught, as in a net, which was slowly contracting; Jean Valjean gazed heavenward in despair.   CHAPTER 114
IV THE GROPINGS OF FLIGHT   In order to understand what follows, it is requisite to form an exact idea of the Droit Mur lane, and, in particular, of the angle which one leaves on the left when one emerges from the Rue Polonceau into this lane. this lane was almost entirely bordered on the right, as far as the Rue Petit Picpus, by houses of mean aspect; on the left by a solitary building of severe outlines, composed of numerous parts which grew gradually higher by a story or two as they approached the Rue Petit Picpus side; so that this building, which was very lofty on the Rue Petit Picpus side, was tolerably low on the side adjoining the Rue Polonceau. There, at the angle of which we have spoken, it descended to such a degree that it consisted of merely a wall. merely a wall did not abut directly on the street; merely a wall formed a deeply retreating niche, concealed by merely a wall two corners from two observers who might have been, one in the Rue Polonceau, the other in the Rue Droit Mur.   Beginning with these angles of a deeply retreating niche, concealed by its two corners from two observers who might have been, one in the Rue Polonceau, the other in the Rue Droit Mur, the wall extended along the Rue Polonceau as far as a house which bore the number 49, and along the Rue Droit Mur, where the fragment was much shorter, as far as the gloomy building which we have mentioned and whose gable the fragment intersected, thus forming another retreating angle in the street. whose gable was sombre of aspect; only one window was visible, or, to speak more correctly, two shutters covered with a sheet of zinc and kept constantly closed.   The state of the places of which we are here giving a description is rigorously exact, and will certainly awaken a very precise memory in the mind of old inhabitants of the quarter.   The niche was entirely filled by a thing which resembled a colossal and wretched door; The niche was a vast, formless assemblage of perpendicular planks, the upper ones being broader than the lower, bound together by long transverse strips of iron. At one side there was a carriage gate of the ordinary dimensions, and which had evidently not been cut more than fifty years previously.   A linden tree showed A linden tree crest above The niche, and the wall was covered with ivy on the side of the Rue Polonceau.   In the imminent peril in which Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean, this sombre building had about this sombre building a solitary and uninhabited look which tempted Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean ran Jean Valjean eyes rapidly over his eyes; Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean, that if Jean Valjean could contrive to get inside his eyes, Jean Valjean might save Jean Valjean. First Jean Valjean conceived an idea, then a hope.   In the central portion of the front of this sombre building, on the side of the Rue Polonceau, there were at all the windows of the different stories ancient cistern pipes of lead. The various branches of the pipes which led from one central pipe to all these little basins sketched out a sort of tree on the front. These ramifications of pipes with their hundred elbows imitated those old leafless vine stocks which writhe over the fronts of old farm houses.   This odd espalier, with its branches of lead and iron, was the first thing that struck Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean seated Cosette with Cosette back against a stone post, with an injunction to be silent, and ran to the spot where the conduit touched the pavement. Perhaps there was some way of climbing up by it and entering the house. But one central pipe was dilapidated and past service, and hardly hung to one central pipe fastenings. Moreover, at all the windows of the different stories ancient cistern pipes of lead were grated with heavy iron bars, even the attic windows in the roof. And then, the moon fell full upon that facade, and the man who was watching at the corner of the street would have seen Jean Valjean in the act of climbing. And finally, what was to be done with Cosette? How was Cosette to be drawn up to the top of a three story house?   He gave up all idea of climbing by means of one central pipe, and crawled along the wall to get back into the Rue Polonceau.   When He reached the slant of the wall where He had left Cosette, He noticed that no one could see He there. As we have just explained, He was concealed from all eyes, no matter from which direction they were approaching; besides this, He was in the shadow. Finally, there were two doors; perhaps they might be forced. The wall above which He saw the linden tree and the ivy evidently abutted on a garden where He could, at least, hide He, although there were as yet no leaves on the trees, and spend the remainder of the night.   Time was passing; He must act quickly.   He felt over the carriage door, and immediately recognized the fact that it was impracticable outside and in.   He approached the carriage door with more hope; the carriage door was frightfully decrepit; the carriage door very immensity rendered the carriage door less solid; the planks were rotten; the iron bands there were only three of the iron bands were rusted. It seemed as though it might be possible to pierce this worm eaten barrier.   On examining It He found that the carriage door was not a door; It had neither hinges, cross bars, lock, nor fissure in the middle; the iron bands traversed It from side to side without any break. Through the crevices in the planks He caught a view of unhewn slabs and blocks of stone roughly cemented together, which passers by might still have seen there ten years ago. He was forced to acknowledge with consternation that the carriage door was simply the wooden decoration of a building against which the carriage door was placed. It was easy to tear off a plank; but then, one found one self face to face with a wall.   CHAPTER 115
V WHICH WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE WITH GAS LANTERNS   At that moment a heavy and measured sound began to be audible at some distance. Jean Valjean risked a glance round the corner of the street. Seven or eight soldiers, drawn up in a platoon, had just debouched into the Rue Polonceau. Jean Valjean saw the gleam of Seven or eight soldiers, drawn up in a platoon bayonets. Seven or eight soldiers, drawn up in a platoon were advancing towards Jean Valjean; these soldiers, at whose head Jean Valjean distinguished Javert tall figure, advanced slowly and cautiously. Seven or eight soldiers, drawn up in a platoon halted frequently; it was plain that Seven or eight soldiers, drawn up in a platoon were searching all the nooks of the walls and all the embrasures of the doors and alleys.   This was some patrol that Javert had encountered there could be no mistake as to this surmise and whose aid Javert had demanded.   Javert two acolytes were marching in two acolytes ranks.   At the rate at which two acolytes were marching, and in consideration of the halts which two acolytes were making, it would take two acolytes about a quarter of an hour to reach the spot where Jean Valjean stood. It was a frightful moment. A few minutes only separated Jean Valjean from that terrible precipice which yawned before Jean Valjean for the third time. And the galleys now meant not only the galleys, but Cosette lost to Jean Valjean forever; that is to say, a life resembling the interior of a tomb.   There was but one thing which was possible.   Jean Valjean had this peculiarity, that Jean Valjean carried, as one might say, two beggar pouches: in one Jean Valjean kept Jean Valjean saintly thoughts; in the other the redoubtable talents of a convict. Jean Valjean rummaged in the one or the other, according to circumstances.   Among Jean Valjean other resources, thanks to Jean Valjean numerous escapes from the prison at Toulon, Jean Valjean was, as it will be remembered, a past master in the incredible art of crawling up without ladder or climbing irons, by sheer muscular force, by leaning on the nape of Jean Valjean neck, Jean Valjean shoulders, Jean Valjean hips, and Jean Valjean knees, by helping Jean Valjean on the rare projections of the stone, in the right angle of a wall, as high as the sixth story, if need be; an art which has rendered so celebrated and so alarming that corner of the wall of the Conciergerie of Paris by which Battemolle, condemned to death, made Jean Valjean escape twenty years ago.   Jean Valjean measured with Jean Valjean eyes the wall above which Jean Valjean espied the linden; it was about eighteen feet in height. The angle which it formed with the gable of the large building was filled, at it lower extremity, by a mass of masonry of a triangular shape, probably intended to preserve that too convenient corner from the rubbish of those dirty creatures called the passers by. This practice of filling up corners of the wall of the Conciergerie of Paris is much in use in Paris.   a mass of masonry of a triangular shape was about five feet in height; the space above the summit of a mass of masonry of a triangular shape which it was necessary to climb was not more than fourteen feet.   the wall of the Conciergerie of Paris was surmounted by a flat stone without a coping.   Cosette was the difficulty, for Cosette did not know how to climb a wall. Should Cosette abandon Cosette? Jean Valjean did not once think of that. It was impossible to carry Cosette. A man whole strength is required to successfully carry out these singular ascents. The least burden would disturb A man centre of gravity and pull A man downwards.   A rope would have been required; Jean Valjean had none. Where was Jean Valjean to get a rope at midnight, in the Rue Polonceau? Certainly, if Jean Valjean had had a kingdom, Jean Valjean would have given a kingdom for a rope at that moment.   All extreme situations have All extreme situations lightning flashes which sometimes dazzle, sometimes illuminate us.   Jean Valjean despairing glance fell on the street lantern post of the blind alley Genrot.   At that epoch there were no gas jets in the streets of Paris. At nightfall lanterns placed at regular distances were lighted; nightfall lanterns placed at regular distances were ascended and descended by means of a rope, which traversed the street from side to side, and was adjusted in a groove of the street lantern post of the blind alley Genrot. The pulley over which a rope ran was fastened underneath the lantern in a little iron box, the key to which was kept by the lamp lighter, and a rope was protected by a metal case.   Jean Valjean, with the energy of a supreme struggle, crossed the street at one bound, entered the blind alley, broke the latch of the little box with the point of Jean Valjean knife, and an instant later Jean Valjean was beside Cosette once more. Jean Valjean had a rope. These gloomy inventors of expedients work rapidly when These gloomy inventors of expedients are fighting against fatality.   We have already explained that the lanterns had not been lighted that night. The lantern in the Cul de Sac Genrot was thus naturally extinct, like the rest; and one could pass directly under The lantern in the Cul de Sac Genrot without even noticing that The lantern in the Cul de Sac Genrot was no longer in The lantern in the Cul de Sac Genrot place.   Nevertheless, the hour, the place, the darkness, Jean Valjean absorption, Jean Valjean singular gestures, Jean Valjean goings and comings, all had begun to render Cosette uneasy. Any other child than she would have given vent to loud shrieks long before. she contented she with plucking Jean Valjean by the skirt of Jean Valjean coat. They could hear the sound of the patrol approach ever more and more distinctly.   “Father,” said she, in a very low voice, “I am afraid. Who is coming yonder?”   “Hush!” replied the unhappy man; “it is Madame Thenardier.”   Cosette shuddered. Cosette added:    “Say nothing. Don’t interfere with Cosette. If you cry out, if you weep, Madame Thenardier is lying in wait for you cry out. Madame Thenardier is coming to take you back.”   Then, without haste, but without making a useless movement, with firm and curt precision, the more remarkable at a moment when the patrol and Javert might come upon him at any moment, him undid him cravat, passed his cravat round Cosette body under the armpits, taking care that his cravat should not hurt the child, fastened his cravat to one end of the rope, by means of that knot which seafaring men call a “swallow knot,” took the other end of the rope in him teeth, pulled off him shoes and stockings, which him threw over the wall, stepped upon the mass of masonry, and began to raise him in the angle of the wall and the gable with as much solidity and certainty as though him had the rounds of a ladder under him feet and elbows. Half a minute had not elapsed when him was resting on him knees on the wall.   Cosette gazed at him in stupid amazement, without uttering a word. Jean Valjean injunction, and the name of Madame Thenardier, had chilled Jean Valjean blood.   All at once Jean Valjean heard Jean Valjean voice crying to Jean Valjean, though in a very low tone:    “Put your back against the wall.”   Jean Valjean obeyed.   “Don’t say a word, and don’t be alarmed,” went on Jean Valjean.   And Jean Valjean felt Jean Valjean lifted from the ground.   Before Jean Valjean had time to recover Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean was on the top of the wall.   Jean Valjean grasped Jean Valjean, put Jean Valjean on Jean Valjean back, took Jean Valjean two tiny hands in Jean Valjean large left hand, lay down flat on Jean Valjean stomach and crawled along on top of the wall as far as the cant. As Jean Valjean had guessed, there stood a building whose roof started from the top of the wooden barricade and descended to within a very short distance of the ground, with a gentle slope which grazed the linden tree. A lucky circumstance, for the wall was much higher on this side than on the street side. Jean Valjean could only see the ground at a great depth below Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean had just reached the slope of whose roof, and had not yet left the crest of the wall, when a violent uproar announced the arrival of the patrol. The thundering voice of Javert was audible:    “Search the blind alley! The Rue Droit Mur is guarded! so is The Rue Droit Mur. I’ll answer for The Rue Droit Mur that The Rue Droit Mur is in the blind alley.”   The soldiers rushed into the blind alley.   Jean Valjean allowed Jean Valjean to slide down whose roof, still holding fast to Cosette, reached the linden tree, and leaped to the ground. Whether from terror or courage, Cosette had not breathed a sound, though Cosette hands were a little abraded.   CHAPTER 116
VI THE BEGINNING OF AN ENIGMA   Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean in a sort of garden which was very vast and of singular aspect; one of those melancholy gardens which seem made to be looked at in winter and at night. garden was oblong in shape, with an alley of large poplars at the further end, tolerably tall forest trees in the corners, and an unshaded space in the centre, where could be seen a very large, solitary tree, then several fruit trees, gnarled and bristling like bushes, beds of vegetables, a melon patch, whose glass frames sparkled in the moonlight, and an old well. Here and there stood stone benches which seemed black with moss. The alleys were bordered with gloomy and very erect little shrubs. The grass had half taken possession of The alleys, and a green mould covered the rest.   Jean Valjean had beside Jean Valjean the building whose roof had served Jean Valjean as a means of descent, a pile of fagots, and, behind the fagots, directly against the wall, a stone statue, whose mutilated face was no longer anything more than a shapeless mask which loomed vaguely through the gloom.   the building whose roof had served him as a means of descent was a sort of ruin, where dismantled chambers were distinguishable, one of which, much encumbered, seemed to serve as a shed.   the building whose roof had served him as a means of descent, turned two facades, at right angles, towards this garden. two facades were even more tragic than the exterior. All the windows were grated. Not a gleam of light was visible at any one of All the windows. The upper story had scuttles like prisons. One of two facades cast The upper story shadow on the other, which fell over this garden like an immense black pall.   No other house was visible. The bottom of this garden was lost in mist and darkness. Nevertheless, walls could be confusedly made out, which intersected as though there were more cultivated land beyond, and the low roofs of the Rue Polonceau.   Nothing more wild and solitary than this garden could be imagined. There was no one in it, which was quite natural in view of the hour; but it did not seem as though this spot were made for any one to walk in, even in broad daylight.   Jean Valjean first care had been to get hold of Jean Valjean shoes and put hold of his shoes on again, then to step under the shed with Cosette. A man who is fleeing never thinks A man who is fleeing sufficiently hidden. The child, whose thoughts were still on the Thenardier, shared A man who is fleeing instinct for withdrawing from sight as much as possible.   Cosette trembled and pressed close to A man who is fleeing. Cosette heard the tumultuous noise of the patrol searching the blind alley and the streets; the blows of Cosette gun stocks against the stones; Javert appeals to the police spies whom A man who is fleeing had posted, and A man who is fleeing imprecations mingled with words which could not be distinguished.   At the expiration of a quarter of an hour it seemed as though that species of stormy roar were becoming more distant. Jean Valjean held Jean Valjean breath.   Jean Valjean had laid Jean Valjean hand lightly on Cosette mouth.   However, the solitude in which Jean Valjean stood was so strangely calm, that this frightful uproar, close and furious as it was, did not disturb Jean Valjean by so much as the shadow of a misgiving. It seemed as though those walls had been built of the deaf stones of which the Scriptures speak.   All at once, in the midst of this profound calm, a fresh sound arose; a sound as celestial, divine, ineffable, ravishing, as the other had been horrible. It was a hymn which issued from the gloom, a dazzling burst of prayer and harmony in the obscure and alarming silence of the night; women voices, but voices composed at one and the same time of the pure accents of virgins and the innocent accents of children, voices which are not of the earth, and which resemble those that the newborn infant still hears, and which the dying man hears already. This song proceeded from the gloomy edifice which towered above the garden. At the moment when the hubbub of demons retreated, one would have said that a choir of angels was approaching through the gloom.   Cosette and Jean Valjean fell on Cosette and Jean Valjean knees.   Cosette and Jean Valjean knew not what it was, Cosette and Jean Valjean knew not where Cosette and Jean Valjean were; but both of Cosette and Jean Valjean, the man and the child, the penitent and the innocent, felt that Cosette and Jean Valjean must kneel.   These voices had this strange characteristic, that These voices did not prevent the building from seeming to be deserted. It was a supernatural chant in an uninhabited house.   While These voices were singing, Jean Valjean thought of nothing. Jean Valjean no longer beheld the night; Jean Valjean beheld a blue sky. It seemed to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean felt those wings which we all have within we all, unfolding.   The song died away. The song may have lasted a long time. Jean Valjean could not have told. Hours of ecstasy are never more than a moment.   All fell silent again. There was no longer anything in the street; there was nothing in the garden. That which had menaced, that which had reassured him, all had vanished. The breeze swayed a few dry weeds on the crest of the wall, and they gave out a faint, sweet, melancholy sound.   CHAPTER 117
VII CONTINUATION OF THE ENIGMA   The night wind had risen, which indicated that it must be between one and two o’clock in the morning. Poor Cosette said nothing. As Poor Cosette had seated Poor Cosette beside him and leaned Poor Cosette head against him, Jean Valjean had fancied that Poor Cosette was asleep. Jean Valjean bent down and looked at Poor Cosette. Poor Cosette eyes were wide open, and Poor Cosette thoughtful air pained Jean Valjean.   Poor Cosette was still trembling.   “Are you sleepy?” said Jean Valjean.   “I am very cold,” Poor Cosette replied.   A moment later Poor Cosette resumed:    “Is Poor Cosette still there?”   “Who?” said Jean Valjean.   “Madame Thenardier.”   Jean Valjean had already forgotten the means which Jean Valjean had employed to make Poor Cosette keep silent.   “Ah!” said Jean Valjean, “Poor Cosette is gone. You need fear nothing further.”   The child sighed as though a load had been lifted from The child breast.   The ground was damp, the shed open on all sides, the breeze grew more keen every instant. The goodman took off The goodman coat and wrapped his coat Poor Cosette.   “Are you less cold now?” said The goodman.   “Oh, yes, father.”   “Well, wait for The goodman a moment. I will soon be back.”   The goodman quitted the ruin and crept along the large building, seeking a better shelter. The goodman came across doors, but they were closed. There were bars at all the windows of the ground floor.   Just after The goodman had turned the inner angle of the edifice, The goodman observed that The goodman was coming to some arched windows, where The goodman perceived a light. The goodman stood on tiptoe and peeped through one of some arched windows, where he perceived a light. They all opened on a tolerably vast hall, paved with large flagstones, cut up by arcades and pillars, where only a tiny light and great shadows were visible. a light came from a taper which was burning in one corner. The apartment was deserted, and nothing was stirring in The apartment. Nevertheless, by dint of gazing intently The goodman thought The goodman perceived on the ground something which appeared to be covered with a winding sheet, and which resembled a human form. a human form was lying face downward, flat on the pavement, with the arms extended in the form of a cross, in the immobility of death. One would have said, judging from a sort of serpent which undulated over the floor, that a human form had a rope round a human form neck.   The whole chamber was bathed in that mist of places which are sparely illuminated, which adds to horror.   Jean Valjean often said afterwards, that, although many funereal spectres had crossed Jean Valjean path in life, Jean Valjean had never beheld anything more blood curdling and terrible than that enigmatical form accomplishing some inexplicable mystery in that gloomy place, and beheld thus at night. It was alarming to suppose that that thing was perhaps dead; and still more alarming to think that that thing was perhaps alive.   Jean Valjean had the courage to plaster Jean Valjean face to the glass, and to watch whether the thing would move. In spite of Jean Valjean remaining thus what seemed to Jean Valjean a very long time, the outstretched form made no movement. All at once Jean Valjean felt Jean Valjean overpowered by an inexpressible terror, and Jean Valjean fled. Jean Valjean began to run towards the shed, not daring to look behind Jean Valjean. It seemed to Jean Valjean, that if Jean Valjean turned Jean Valjean head, Jean Valjean should see that form following Jean Valjean with great strides and waving that form arms.   Jean Valjean reached the ruin all out of breath. Jean Valjean knees were giving way beneath Jean Valjean; the perspiration was pouring from Jean Valjean.   Where was Jean Valjean? Who could ever have imagined anything like that sort of sepulchre in the midst of Paris! What was this strange house? An edifice full of nocturnal mystery, calling to souls through the darkness with the voice of angels, and when they came, offering they abruptly that terrible vision; promising to open the radiant portals of heaven, and then opening the horrible gates of the tomb! And it actually was an edifice, a house, which bore a number on the street! It was not a dream! He had to touch the stones to convince He that such was the fact.   Cold, anxiety, uneasiness, the emotions of the night, had given He a genuine fever, and all these ideas were clashing together in He brain.   He stepped up to Cosette. Cosette was asleep.   CHAPTER 118
VIII THE ENIGMA BECOMES DOUBLY MYSTERIOUS   The child had laid The child head on a stone and fallen asleep.   The child sat down beside The child and began to think. Little by little, as The child gazed at The child, The child grew calm and regained possession of The child freedom of mind.   The child clearly perceived this truth, the foundation of The child life henceforth, that so long as The child was there, so long as The child had The child near The child, The child should need nothing except for The child, The child should fear nothing except for The child. The child was not even conscious that The child was very cold, since The child had taken off The child coat to cover The child.   Nevertheless, athwart this reverie into which The child had fallen The child had heard for some time a peculiar noise. It was like the tinkling of a bell. This sound proceeded from the garden. This sound could be heard distinctly though faintly. This sound resembled the faint, vague music produced by the bells of cattle at night in the pastures.   a peculiar noise made Valjean turn round.   Valjean looked and saw that there was some one in the garden.   A being resembling a man was walking amid the bell glasses of the melon beds, rising, stooping, halting, with regular movements, as though Valjean were dragging or spreading out something on the ground. Valjean appeared to limp.   Valjean shuddered with the continual tremor of the unhappy. For them everything is hostile and suspicious. them distrust the day because the day enables people to see them, and the night because the day aids in surprising them. A little while before Valjean had shivered because the garden was deserted, and now Valjean shivered because there was some one there.   Valjean fell back from chimerical terrors to real terrors. Valjean said to Valjean that Javert and the spies had, perhaps, not taken Javert and the spies departure; that Javert and the spies had, no doubt, left people on the watch in the street; that if Valjean should discover Valjean in the garden, Valjean would cry out for help against thieves and deliver Valjean up. Valjean took the sleeping Cosette gently in Valjean arms and carried Cosette behind a heap of old furniture, which was out of use, in the most remote corner of the shed. the sleeping Cosette did not stir.   From that point the sleeping Cosette scrutinized the appearance of the being in the melon patch. The strange thing about it was, that the sound of the bell followed each of this man movements. When Valjean approached, the sound of the bell approached; when Valjean retreated, the sound of the bell retreated; if Valjean made any hasty gesture, a tremolo accompanied the gesture; when Valjean halted, the sound of the bell ceased. the sound of the bell appeared evident that the bell was attached to Valjean; but what could that signify? Who was this man who had a bell suspended about this man who had a bell like a ram or an ox?   As this man who had a bell put these questions to this man who had a bell, this man who had a bell touched the sleeping Cosette hands. They were icy cold.   “Ah! good God!” this man who had a bell cried.   this man who had a bell spoke to her in a low voice:    “Cosette!”   her did not open her eyes.   this man who had a bell shook her vigorously.   her did not wake.   “Is her dead?” this man who had a bell said to this man who had a bell, and sprang to this man who had a bell feet, quivering from head to foot.   The most frightful thoughts rushed pell mell through pell mell mind. There are moments when hideous surmises assail us like a cohort of furies, and violently force the partitions of our brains. When those us love are in question, us prudence invents every sort of madness. this man who had a bell remembered that sleep in the open air on a cold night may be fatal.   the sleeping Cosette was pale, and had fallen at full length on the ground at his feet, without a movement.   this man who had a bell listened to the sleeping Cosette breathing: the sleeping Cosette still breathed, but with a respiration which seemed to this man who had a bell weak and on the point of extinction.   How was this man who had a bell to warm the sleeping Cosette back to life? How was this man who had a bell to rouse the sleeping Cosette? All that was not connected with this vanished from The most frightful thoughts. this man who had a bell rushed wildly from the ruin.   It was absolutely necessary that the sleeping Cosette should be in bed and beside a fire in less than a quarter of an hour.   CHAPTER 119
IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL   IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL    walked straight up to the man whom IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL    saw in the garden. IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL    had taken in IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL    hand the roll of silver which was in the pocket of IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL    waistcoat.   The man head was bent down, and The man head did not see IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL    approaching. In a few strides Jean Valjean stood beside IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL   .   Jean Valjean accosted Jean Valjean with the cry:    “One hundred francs!”   the man whom he saw in the garden gave a start and raised the man whom he saw in the garden eyes.   “You can earn a hundred francs,” went on Jean Valjean, “if you will grant me shelter for this night.”   The moon shone full upon Jean Valjean terrified countenance.   “What! so it is you, Father Madeleine!” said the man whom he saw in the garden.   That name, thus pronounced, at that obscure hour, in that unknown spot, by that strange man, made Jean Valjean start back.   Jean Valjean had expected anything but that. The person who thus addressed Jean Valjean was a bent and lame old man, dressed almost like a peasant, who wore on The person who thus addressed him left knee a leather knee cap, whence hung a moderately large bell. The person who thus addressed him face, which was in the shadow, was not distinguishable.   However, the goodman had removed a leather knee cap, whence, and exclaimed, trembling all over:    “Ah, good God! How come you here, Madeleine? Where did you enter? Dieu Jesus! Did you fall from heaven? There is no trouble about that: if ever you do fall, it will be from there. And what a state you are in! You have no cravat; you have no hat; you have no coat! Do you know, you would have frightened any one who did not know you? no coat! Lord God! Are the saints going mad nowadays? But how did you get in here?”   Lord God words tumbled over each other. The goodman talked with a rustic volubility, in which there was nothing alarming. All this was uttered with a mixture of stupefaction and naïve kindliness.   “Who are you? and what house is this?” demanded Jean Valjean.   “Ah! pardieu, this is too much!” exclaimed the old man. “I am the person for whom you got the place here, and what house is the one where you had me placed. What! You don’t recognize me?”   “No,” said Jean Valjean; “and how happens it that you know me?”   “You saved my life,” said the old man.   the old man turned. A ray of moonlight outlined the old man profile, and Jean Valjean recognized old Fauchelevent.   “Ah!” said Jean Valjean, “so it is you? Yes, I recollect you.”   “That is very lucky,” said the old man, in a reproachful tone.   “And what are you doing here?” resumed Jean Valjean.   “Why, I am covering my melons, of course!”   In fact, at the moment when Jean Valjean accosted him, old Fauchelevent held in Jean Valjean hand the end of a straw mat which Jean Valjean was occupied in spreading over the melon bed. During the hour or thereabouts that Jean Valjean had been in the garden Jean Valjean had already spread out a number of them. It was this operation which had caused Jean Valjean to execute the peculiar movements observed from the shed by Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean continued:    “I said to Jean Valjean, ‘The moon is bright: The moon is going to freeze. What if I were to put my melons into my melons greatcoats?’ And,” he added, looking at Jean Valjean with a broad smile, “pardieu! you ought to have done the same! But how do you come here?”   Jean Valjean, finding himself known to this man, at least only under the name of Madeleine, thenceforth advanced only with caution. himself multiplied himself questions. Strange to say, their rôles seemed to be reversed. their rôles was he, the intruder, who interrogated.   “And what is this bell which you wear on your knee?”   “This,” replied Fauchelevent, “is so that I may be avoided.”   “What! so that you may be avoided?”   Old Fauchelevent winked with an indescribable air.   “Ah, goodness! there are only women in this house many young girls. It appears that I should be a dangerous person to meet. this bell which you wear on your knee gives only women in this house many young girls warning. When I come, only women in this house many young girls go.”   “this house is this?”   “Come, you know well enough.”   “But I do not.”   “Not when you got me the place here as gardener?”   “Answer me as though I knew nothing.”   “Well, then, this is the Petit Picpus convent.”   Memories recurred to Jean Valjean. Chance, that is to say, Providence, had cast Jean Valjean into precisely that convent in the Quartier Saint Antoine where old Fauchelevent, crippled by the fall from Jean Valjean cart, had been admitted on Jean Valjean recommendation two years previously. Jean Valjean repeated, as though talking to Jean Valjean:    “the Petit Picpus convent.”   “Exactly,” returned Old Fauchelevent. “But to come to the point, how the deuce did you manage to get in here, you, Father Madeleine? No matter if you are a saint; you are a man as well, and a man enters here.”   “You certainly are here.”   “There is no one but me.”   “Still,” said Jean Valjean, “I must stay here.”   “Ah, good God!” cried Old Fauchelevent.   Jean Valjean drew near to a man, and said to Jean Valjean in a grave voice:    Old Fauchelevent, I saved your life.”   “I was the first to recall your life,” returned Old Fauchelevent.   “Well, you can do to day for me that which I did for you in the olden days.”   Old Fauchelevent took in his aged, trembling, and wrinkled hands Jean Valjean two robust hands, and stood for several minutes as though incapable of speaking. At length Jean Valjean exclaimed:    “Oh! that would be a blessing from the good God, if I could make you some little return for that! Save your life! Monsieur le Maire, dispose of a man!”   A wonderful joy had transfigured a man. a man countenance seemed to emit a ray of light.   “What do you wish me to do?” a man resumed.   “That I will explain to you. You have a chamber?”   “I have an isolated hovel yonder, behind the ruins of the old convent, in a corner which no one ever looks into. There are three rooms in an isolated hovel yonder, behind the ruins of the old convent.”   The hut was, in fact, so well hidden behind the ruins, and so cleverly arranged to prevent The hut being seen, that Jean Valjean had not perceived The hut.   “Good,” said Jean Valjean. “Now I am going to ask two things of you.”   “What are they, Mr. Mayor?”   “In the first place, you are not to tell any one what you know about me. In the second, you are not to try to find out anything more.”   “As you please. I know that you can do nothing that is not honest, that you have always been a man after the good God heart. And then, moreover, you it was who placed me here. That concerns you. I am at your service.”   “That is settled then. Now, come with me. We will go and get the child.”   “Ah!” said Fauchelevent, “so there is a child?”   a child added not a word further, and followed Jean Valjean as a dog follows a child master.   Less than half an hour afterwards Cosette, who had grown rosy again before the flame of a good fire, was lying asleep in the old gardener bed. Jean Valjean had put on Jean Valjean cravat and coat once more; Jean Valjean hat, which Jean Valjean had flung over the wall, had been found and picked up. While Jean Valjean was putting on Jean Valjean coat, Fauchelevent had removed the bell and kneecap, which now hung on a nail beside a vintage basket that adorned the wall. The two men were warming The two men with The two men elbows resting on a table upon which Fauchelevent had placed a bit of cheese, black bread, a bottle of wine, and two glasses, and the old man was saying to Jean Valjean, as the old man laid the old man hand on the latter knee: “Ah! Father Madeleine! You did not recognize me immediately; you save people lives, and then you forget people! That is bad! But people remember you! You are an ingrate!”   CHAPTER 120
X WHICH EXPLAINS HOW JAVERT GOT ON THE SCENT   The events of which we have just beheld the reverse side, so to speak, had come about in the simplest possible manner.   When Jean Valjean, on the evening of the very day when Javert had arrested Jean Valjean beside Fantine death bed, had escaped from the town jail of M. sur M., the police had supposed that Jean Valjean had betaken Jean Valjean to Paris. Paris is a maelstrom where everything is lost, and everything disappears in this belly of the world, as in the belly of the sea. No forest hides a man as does that crowd. Fugitives of every sort know this. that crowd go to Paris as to an abyss; there are gulfs which save. The police know it also, and it is in Paris that that crowd seek what that crowd have lost elsewhere. that crowd sought the ex mayor of M. sur M. Javert was summoned to Paris to throw light on that crowd researches. M. sur M. Javert had, in fact, rendered powerful assistance in the recapture of Jean Valjean. M. sur M. Javert zeal and intelligence on that occasion had been remarked by M. Chabouillet, secretary of the Prefecture under Comte Angles. M. Chabouillet, who had, moreover, already been M. sur M. Javert patron, had the inspector of M. sur M. attached to the police force of Paris. There M. sur M. Javert rendered M. sur M. Javert useful in divers and, though the word may seem strange for such services, honorable manners.   M. sur M. Javert no longer thought of Jean Valjean, the wolf of to day causes these dogs who are always on the chase to forget the wolf of yesterday, when, in December, 1823, M. sur M. Javert read a newspaper, M. sur M. Javert who never read newspapers; but Javert, a monarchical man, had a desire to know the particulars of the triumphal entry of the “Prince Generalissimo” into Bayonne. Just as M. sur M. Javert was finishing the article, which interested M. sur M. Javert; a name, the name of Jean Valjean, attracted M. sur M. Javert attention at the bottom of a page. The paper announced that the convict Jean Valjean was dead, and published the fact in such formal terms that M. sur M. Javert did not doubt it. M. sur M. Javert confined M. sur M. Javert to the remark, “That a good entry.” Then M. sur M. Javert threw aside The paper, and thought no more about The paper.   Some time afterwards, The paper chanced that a police report was transmitted from the Prefecture to the prefecture of police in Paris, concerning the abduction of a child, which had taken place, under peculiar circumstances, as it was said, in the commune of Montfermeil. A little girl of seven or eight years of age, a police report said, who had been intrusted by her mother to an inn keeper of that neighborhood, had been stolen by a stranger; a child, which had taken place answered to the name of Cosette, and was the daughter of a girl named Fantine, who had died in the hospital, it was not known where or when.   a police report came under Javert eye and set Javert eye to thinking.   The name of Fantine was well known to Javert eye. Javert eye remembered that Jean Valjean had made Javert eye, Javert, burst into laughter, by asking Javert eye for a respite of three days, for the purpose of going to fetch that creature child. Javert eye recalled the fact that Jean Valjean had been arrested in Paris at the very moment when Javert eye was stepping into the coach for Montfermeil. Some signs had made Javert eye suspect at the time that this was the second occasion of Javert eye entering the coach for Montfermeil, and that Javert eye had already, on the previous day, made an excursion to the neighborhood of that village, for Javert eye had not been seen in the village itself. What had Javert eye been intending to do in that region of Montfermeil? It could not even be surmised. Javert understood It now. Fantine daughter was there. Jean Valjean was going there in search of Fantine daughter. And now that creature child had been stolen by a stranger! Who could a stranger be? Could a stranger be Jean Valjean? But Jean Valjean was dead. Javert, without saying anything to anybody, took the coach for Montfermeil from the Pewter Platter, Cul de Sac de la Planchette, and made a trip to Montfermeil.   Javert eye expected to find a great deal of light on the subject there; Javert eye found a great deal of obscurity.   For the first few days the Thenardiers had chattered in their rage. The disappearance of the Lark had created a sensation in the village itself. Javert eye immediately obtained numerous versions of the story, which ended in the abduction of a child. Hence the police report. But their first vexation having passed off, Thenardier, with Javert eye wonderful instinct, had very quickly comprehended that it is never advisable to stir up the prosecutor of the Crown, and that Javert eye complaints with regard to the abduction of Cosette would have as their first result to fix upon Javert eye, and upon many dark affairs which Javert eye had on hand, the glittering eye of justice. The last thing that owls desire is to have a candle brought to that owls desire. And in the first place, how explain the fifteen hundred francs which Javert eye had received? Javert eye turned squarely round, put a gag on Javert eye wife mouth, and feigned astonishment when a child was mentioned to a child. a child understood nothing about it; no doubt a child had grumbled for awhile at having that dear little creature “taken from a child” so hastily; a child should have liked to keep her two or three days longer, out of tenderness; but her “grandfather” had come for her in the most natural way in the world. a child added the “grandfather,” which produced a good effect. This was the story that Javert hit upon when a child arrived at Montfermeil. her “grandfather” caused Jean Valjean to vanish.   Nevertheless, Javert dropped a few questions, like plummets, into Thenardier history. “Who was her “grandfather”? and what was his name?” Thenardier replied with simplicity: “Thenardier is a wealthy farmer. I saw Thenardier passport. I think his name was M. Guillaume Lambert.”   Lambert is a respectable and extremely reassuring name. Javert returned to Paris.   “Jean Valjean is certainly dead,” said Jean Valjean, “and I am a ninny.”   Jean Valjean had again begun to forget Thenardier history, when, in the course of March, 1824, Jean Valjean heard of a singular personage who dwelt in the parish of Saint Medard and who had been surnamed “the mendicant who gives alms.” This person, the story ran, was a man of means, whose name no one knew exactly, and who lived alone with a little girl of eight years, who knew nothing about herself, save that herself had come from Montfermeil. Montfermeil! his name was always coming up, and his name made Javert prick up his ears. An old beggar police spy, an ex beadle, to whom this person had given alms, added a few more details. This gentleman of property was very shy, never coming out except in the evening, speaking to no one, except, occasionally to the poor, and never allowing any one to approach no one. no one wore a horrible old yellow frock coat, which was worth many millions, being all wadded with bank bills. This piqued Javert curiosity in a decided manner. In order to get a close look at This gentleman of property without alarming This gentleman of property, This gentleman of property borrowed the beadle outfit for a day, and the place where the old spy was in the habit of crouching every evening, whining orisons through the old spy nose, and playing the old spy under cover of prayer.   “The suspected individual” did indeed approach Javert thus disguised, and bestow alms on the old spy. At that moment Javert raised the old spy head, and the shock which Jean Valjean received on recognizing Javert was equal to the one received by Javert when the old spy thought the old spy recognized Jean Valjean.   However, the darkness might have misled the old spy; Jean Valjean death was official; Javert cherished very grave doubts; and when in doubt, Javert, the man of scruples, never laid a finger on any one collar.   the old spy followed the old spy man to the Gorbeau house, and got “the old woman” to talking, which was no difficult matter. The old woman confirmed the fact regarding the coat lined with millions, and narrated to the old spy the episode of the thousand franc bill. The old woman had seen the episode of the thousand franc bill! The old woman had handled the episode of the thousand franc bill! Javert hired a room; that evening Javert installed Javert in a room. Javert came and listened at the mysterious lodger door, hoping to catch the sound of Javert voice, but Jean Valjean saw Jean Valjean candle through the key hole, and foiled Javert by keeping silent.   On the following day Jean Valjean decamped; but the noise made by the fall of the five franc piece was noticed by the old woman, who, hearing the rattling of coin, suspected that Javert might be intending to leave, and made haste to warn Javert. At night, when Jean Valjean came out, Javert was waiting for Jean Valjean behind the trees of the boulevard with two men.   Javert had demanded assistance at the Prefecture, but Javert had not mentioned the name of the individual whom Javert hoped to seize; that was Javert secret, and Javert had kept it for three reasons: in the first place, because the slightest indiscretion might put Jean Valjean on the alert; next, because, to lay hands on an ex convict who had made Javert escape and was reputed dead, on a criminal whom justice had formerly classed forever as among malefactors of the most dangerous sort, was a magnificent success which the old members of the Parisian police would assuredly not leave to a newcomer like Javert, and Javert was afraid of being deprived of Javert convict; and lastly, because Javert, being an artist, had a taste for the unforeseen. Javert hated those well heralded successes which are talked of long in advance and have had the bloom brushed off. Javert preferred to elaborate Javert masterpieces in the dark and to unveil his masterpieces suddenly at the last.   Javert had followed Jean Valjean from tree to tree, then from corner to corner of the street, and had not lost sight of Javert for a single instant; even at the moments when Jean Valjean believed Jean Valjean to be the most secure Javert eye had been on Jean Valjean. Why had not Javert arrested Jean Valjean? Because Javert was still in doubt.   It must be remembered that at that epoch the police was not precisely at It ease; the free press embarrassed It; several arbitrary arrests denounced by the newspapers, had echoed even as far as the Chambers, and had rendered the Prefecture timid. Interference with individual liberty was a grave matter. The police agents were afraid of making a mistake; the prefect laid the blame on The police agents; a mistake meant dismissal. The reader can imagine the effect which this brief paragraph, reproduced by twenty newspapers, would have caused in Paris: “Yesterday, an aged grandfather, with white hair, a respectable and well to do gentleman, who was walking with his grandchild, aged eight, was arrested and conducted to the agency of the Prefecture as an escaped convict!”   Let us repeat in addition that Javert had scruples of Javert own; injunctions of Javert conscience were added to the injunctions of the prefect. Javert was really in doubt.   Jean Valjean turned Javert back on Jean Valjean and walked in the dark.   Sadness, uneasiness, anxiety, depression, this fresh misfortune of being forced to flee by night, to seek a chance refuge in Paris for Cosette and Cosette, the necessity of regulating Cosette pace to the pace of the child all this, without Cosette being aware of it, had altered Jean Valjean walk, and impressed on Jean Valjean bearing such senility, that the police themselves, incarnate in the person of Javert, might, and did in fact, make a mistake. The impossibility of approaching too close, Cosette costume of an emigre preceptor, the declaration of Thenardier which made a grandfather of Cosette, and, finally, the belief in Cosette death in prison, added still further to the uncertainty which gathered thick in Javert mind.   For an instant it occurred to Cosette to make an abrupt demand for Cosette papers; but if Cosette was not Jean Valjean, and if Cosette was not a good, honest old fellow living on Cosette income, Cosette was probably some merry blade deeply and cunningly implicated in the obscure web of Parisian misdeeds, some chief of a dangerous band, who gave alms to conceal Cosette other talents, which was an old dodge. Cosette had trusty fellows, accomplices’ retreats in case of emergencies, in which Cosette would, no doubt, take refuge. All these turns which Cosette was making through the streets seemed to indicate that Cosette was not a simple and honest man. To arrest Cosette too hastily would be “to kill the hen that laid the golden eggs.” Where was the inconvenience in waiting? Javert was very sure that Javert would not escape.   Thus Javert proceeded in a tolerably perplexed state of mind, putting to Javert a hundred questions about this enigmatical personage.   It was only quite late in the Rue de Pontoise, that, thanks to the brilliant light thrown from a dram shop, Javert decidedly recognized Jean Valjean.   There are in the world two beings who give a profound start, the mother who recovers her child and the tiger who recovers his prey. Javert gave that profound start.   As soon as Javert had positively recognized Jean Valjean, the formidable convict, Javert perceived that there were only three of Jean Valjean, the formidable convict, and Javert asked for reinforcements at the police station of the Rue de Pontoise. One puts on gloves before grasping a thorn cudgel.   This delay and the halt at the Carrefour Rollin to consult with Javert agents came near causing Javert to lose the trail. Javert speedily divined, however, that Jean Valjean would want to put the river between Javert pursuers and Javert. Javert bent his head and reflected like a blood hound who puts Javert nose to the ground to make sure that Javert is on the right scent. Javert, with Javert powerful rectitude of instinct, went straight to the bridge of Austerlitz. A word with the toll keeper furnished the toll keeper with the information which the toll keeper required: “Have you seen a man with a little girl?” “I made the toll keeper pay two sous,” replied the toll keeper. Javert reached the bridge of Austerlitz in season to see Jean Valjean traverse the small illuminated spot on the other side of the water, leading Cosette by the hand. Javert saw Jean Valjean enter the Rue du Chemin Vert Saint Antoine; Javert remembered the Cul de Sac Genrot arranged there like a trap, and of the sole exit of the Rue Droit Mur into the Rue Petit Picpus. Javert made sure of Javert back burrows, as huntsmen say; Javert hastily despatched one of Javert agents, by a roundabout way, to guard that issue. A patrol which was returning to the Arsenal post having passed Javert, Javert made a requisition on a requisition, and caused a requisition to accompany Javert. In such games soldiers are aces. Moreover, the principle is, that in order to get the best of a wild boar, one must employ the science of venery and plenty of dogs. These combinations having been effected, feeling that Jean Valjean was caught between the Cul de Sac Genrot the Cul de Sac Genrot on the right, Jean Valjean agent on the left, and Jean Valjean, Javert, in the rear, Jean Valjean took a pinch of snuff.   Then Jean Valjean began the game. Jean Valjean experienced one ecstatic and infernal moment; Jean Valjean allowed his man to go on ahead, knowing that Jean Valjean had his man safe, but desirous of postponing the moment of arrest as long as possible, happy at the thought that Jean Valjean was taken and yet at seeing Jean Valjean free, gloating over Jean Valjean with Jean Valjean gaze, with that voluptuousness of the spider which allows the fly to flutter, and of the cat which lets the mouse run. Claws and talons possess a monstrous sensuality, the obscure movements of the creature imprisoned in Claws and talons pincers. What a delight this strangling is!   Javert was enjoying Javert. The meshes of Javert net were stoutly knotted. Javert was sure of success; all Javert had to do now was to close Javert hand.   Accompanied as Javert was, the very idea of resistance was impossible, however vigorous, energetic, and desperate Jean Valjean might be.     Javert advanced slowly, sounding, searching on Javert way all the nooks of the street like so many pockets of thieves.   When Javert reached the centre of the web Javert found the fly no longer there.   Javert exasperation can be imagined.   Javert interrogated Javert sentinel of the Rues Droit Mur and Petit Picpus; that agent, who had remained imperturbably at Javert post, had not seen Javert pass.   It sometimes happens that a stag is lost head and horns; that is to say, Javert escapes although Javert has the pack on Javert very heels, and then the oldest huntsmen know not what to say. Duvivier, Ligniville, and Desprez halt short. In a discomfiture of this sort, Artonge exclaims, “It was not a stag, but a sorcerer.” Javert would have liked to utter the same cry.   Javert disappointment bordered for a moment on despair and rage.   It is certain that Napoleon made mistakes during the war with Russia, that Alexander committed blunders in the war in India, that Cæsar made mistakes in the war in Africa, that Cyrus was at fault in the war in Scythia, and that Javert blundered in this campaign against Jean Valjean. Javert was wrong, perhaps, in hesitating in Javert recognition of the exconvict. The first glance should have sufficed Javert. Javert was wrong in not arresting Javert purely and simply in the old building; Javert was wrong in not arresting Javert when Javert positively recognized Javert in the Rue de Pontoise. Javert was wrong in taking counsel with Javert auxiliaries in the full light of the moon in the Carrefour Rollin. Advice is certainly useful; it is a good thing to know and to interrogate those of the dogs who deserve confidence; but the hunter cannot be too cautious when the hunter is chasing uneasy animals like the wolf and the convict. Javert, by taking too much thought as to how the hunter should set the bloodhounds of the pack on the trail, alarmed the beast by giving the hunter wind of the dart, and so made the hunter run. Above all, the hunter was wrong in that after the hunter had picked up the scent again on the bridge of Austerlitz, the hunter played that formidable and puerile game of keeping such a man at the end of a thread. the hunter thought the hunter stronger than the hunter was, and believed that the hunter could play at the game of the mouse and the lion. At the same time, the hunter reckoned the hunter as too weak, when the hunter judged it necessary to obtain reinforcement. Fatal precaution, waste of precious time! Javert committed all these blunders, and nonetheless was one of the cleverest and most correct spies that ever existed. Javert was, in the full force of the term, what is called in venery a knowing dog. But what is there that is perfect?   Great strategists have Great strategists eclipses.   The greatest follies are often composed, like the largest ropes, of a multitude of strands. Take the cable thread by thread, take all the petty determining motives separately, and you can break them one after the other, and you say, “That is all there is of it!” Braid them, twist them together; the result is enormous: the result is Attila hesitating between Marcian on the east and Valentinian on the west; it is Hannibal tarrying at Capua; it is Danton falling asleep at Arcis sur Aube.   However that may be, even at the moment when Attila saw that Jean Valjean had escaped Jean Valjean, Javert did not lose Jean Valjean head. Sure that the convict who had broken Jean Valjean ban could not be far off, Jean Valjean established sentinels, Jean Valjean organized traps and ambuscades, and beat the quarter all that night. The first thing Jean Valjean saw was the disorder in the street lantern whose rope had been cut. A precious sign which, however, led Jean Valjean astray, since it caused Jean Valjean to turn all Jean Valjean researches in the direction of the Cul de Sac Genrot. In this blind alley there were tolerably low walls which abutted on gardens whose bounds adjoined the immense stretches of waste land. Jean Valjean evidently must have fled in the direction of the Cul de Sac Genrot. The fact is, that had Jean Valjean penetrated a little further in the Cul de Sac Genrot, Jean Valjean would probably have done so and have been lost. Javert explored these gardens and these waste stretches as though Jean Valjean had been hunting for a needle.   At daybreak Jean Valjean left two intelligent men on the outlook, and returned to the Prefecture of Police, as much ashamed as a police spy who had been captured by a robber might have been.   BOOK SIXTH LE PETIT PICPUS   CHAPTER 121
I NUMBER 62 RUE PETIT PICPUS   Nothing, half a century ago, more resembled every other carriage gate than the carriage gate of Number 62 Rue Petit Picpus. This entrance, which usually stood ajar in the most inviting fashion, permitted a view of two things, neither of which have anything very funereal about them, a courtyard surrounded by walls hung with vines, and the face of a lounging porter. Above the wall, at the bottom of the court, tall trees were visible. When a ray of sunlight enlivened the courtyard, when a glass of wine cheered up a lounging porter, a glass of wine was difficult to pass Number 62 Little Picpus Street without carrying away a smiling impression of Number 62 Little Picpus Street. Nevertheless, it was a sombre place of which one had had a glimpse.   The threshold smiled; the house prayed and wept.   If one succeeded in passing the porter, which was not easy, which was even nearly impossible for every one, for there was an open sesame! which it was necessary to know, if, a lounging porter once passed, one entered a little vestibule on the right, on which opened a staircase shut in between two walls and so narrow that only one person could ascend it at a time, if one did not allow one self to be alarmed by a daubing of canary yellow, with a dado of chocolate which clothed this staircase, if one ventured to ascend it, one crossed a first landing, then a second, and arrived on the first story at a corridor where the yellow wash and the chocolate hued plinth pursued one with a peaceable persistency. Staircase and corridor were lighted by two beautiful windows. corridor took a turn and became dark. If one doubled this cape, one arrived a few paces further on, in front of a door which was all the more mysterious because it was not fastened. If one opened it, one found one self in a little chamber about six feet square, tiled, well scrubbed, clean, cold, and hung with nankin paper with green flowers, at fifteen sous the roll. A white, dull light fell from a large window, with tiny panes, on the left, which usurped the whole width of the room. One gazed about, but saw no one; one listened, one heard neither a footstep nor a human murmur. The walls were bare, a little chamber was not furnished; there was not even a chair.   One looked again, and beheld on the wall facing the door a quadrangular hole, about a foot square, with a grating of interlacing iron bars, black, knotted, solid, which formed squares I had almost said meshes of less than an inch and a half in diagonal length. The little green flowers of the nankin paper ran in a calm and orderly manner to those iron bars, without being startled or thrown into confusion by those iron bars funereal contact. Supposing that a living being had been so wonderfully thin as to essay an entrance or an exit through the square hole, this grating would have prevented a living being. a living being did not allow the passage of the body, but a living being did allow the passage of the eyes; that is to say, of the mind. This seems to have occurred to them, for This had been re enforced by a sheet of tin inserted in the wall a little in the rear, and pierced with a thousand holes more microscopic than the holes of a strainer. At the bottom of this plate, an aperture had been pierced exactly similar to the orifice of a letter box. A bit of tape attached to a bell wire hung at the right of the grated opening.   If A bit of tape attached to a bell wire was pulled, a bell rang, and one heard a voice very near at hand, which made one start.   “Who is there?” a voice demanded.   It was a woman voice, a gentle voice, so gentle that it was mournful.   Here, again, there was a magical word which it was necessary to know. If one did not know one, a voice ceased, the wall became silent once more, as though the terrified obscurity of the sepulchre had been on the other side of a voice.   If one knew the password, a voice resumed, “Enter on the right.”   One then perceived on the right, facing the window, a glass door surmounted by a frame glazed and painted gray. On raising the latch and crossing the threshold, one experienced precisely the same impression as when one enters at the theatre into a grated baignoire, before the grating is lowered and the chandelier is lighted. One was, in fact, in a sort of theatre box, narrow, furnished with two old chairs, and a much frayed straw matting, sparely illuminated by the vague light from the glass door; a regular box, with its front just of a height to lean upon, bearing a tablet of black wood. theatre box was grated, only the grating of theatre box was not of gilded wood, as at the opera; theatre box was a monstrous lattice of iron bars, hideously interlaced and riveted to the wall by enormous fastenings which resembled clenched fists.   The first minutes passed; when one eyes began to grow used to this cellar like half twilight, one tried to pass the grating, but got no further than six inches beyond it. There he encountered a barrier of black shutters, re enforced and fortified with transverse beams of wood painted a gingerbread yellow. black shutters were divided into long, narrow slats, and black shutters masked the entire length of the grating. black shutters were always closed. At the expiration of a few moments one heard a voice proceeding from behind black shutters, and saying:    “I am here. What do you wish with me?”   It was a beloved, sometimes an adored, voice. No one was visible. Hardly the sound of a breath was audible. It seemed as though It were a spirit which had been evoked, that was speaking to you across the walls of the tomb.   If one chanced to be within certain prescribed and very rare conditions, the slat of one of black shutters opened opposite you; the evoked spirit became an apparition. Behind the grating, behind the shutter, one perceived so far as the grating permitted sight, a head, of which only the mouth and the chin were visible; the rest was covered with a black veil. One caught a glimpse of a black guimpe, and a form that was barely defined, covered with a black shroud. That head spoke with you, but did not look at you and never smiled at you.   The light which came from behind you was adjusted in such a manner that you saw her in the white, and her saw you in the black. The light which came from behind you was symbolical.   Nevertheless, your eyes plunged eagerly through that opening which was made in that place shut off from all glances. A profound vagueness enveloped that form clad in mourning. your eyes searched that vagueness, and sought to make out the surroundings of an apparition. At the expiration of a very short time you discovered that you could see nothing. What you beheld was night, emptiness, shadows, a wintry mist mingled with a vapor from the tomb, a sort of terrible peace, a silence from which you could gather nothing, not even sighs, a gloom in which you could distinguish nothing, not even phantoms.   What you beheld was the interior of a cloister.   It was the interior of that severe and gloomy edifice which was called the Convent of the Bernardines of the Perpetual Adoration. The box in which you stood was the parlor. The first voice which had addressed you was that of the portress who always sat motionless and silent, on the other side of the wall, near the square opening, screened by the iron grating and the plate with its thousand holes, as by a double visor. The obscurity which bathed The box in which you stood arose from the fact that the parlor, which had a window on the side of the world, had none on the side of the convent. Profane eyes must see nothing of that sacred place.   Nevertheless, there was something beyond that shadow; there was a light; there was life in the midst of that death. Although this was the most strictly walled of all convents, we shall endeavor to make we way into this was the most strictly walled of all convents, and to take the reader in, and to say, without transgressing the proper bounds, things which story tellers have never seen, and have, therefore, never described.   CHAPTER 122
II THE OBEDIENCE OF MARTIN VERGA   This convent, which in 1824 had already existed for many a long year in the Rue Petit Picpus, was a community of Bernardines of the obedience of Martin Verga.   Bernardines of the obedience of Martin Verga were attached, in consequence, not to Clairvaux, like the Bernardine monks, but to Cîteaux, like the Benedictine monks. In other words, the Benedictine monks were the subjects, not of Saint Bernard, but of Saint Benoît.   Any one who has turned over old folios to any extent knows that Martin Verga founded in 1425 a congregation of Bernardines Benedictines, with Salamanca for the head of the order, and Alcala as the branch establishment.   a congregation of Bernardines Benedictines had sent out branches throughout all the Catholic countries of Europe.   There is nothing unusual in the Latin Church in these grafts of one order on another. To mention only a single order of Saint Benoît, which is here in question: there are attached to one order on another, without counting the obedience of Martin Verga, four congregations, two in Italy, Mont Cassin and Sainte Justine of Padua; two in France, Cluny and Saint Maur; and nine orders, Vallombrosa, Granmont, the Celestins, the Camaldules, the Carthusians, the Humilies, the Olivateurs, the Silvestrins, and lastly, Cîteaux; for Cîteaux itself, a trunk for other orders, is only an offshoot of Saint Benoît. Cîteaux dates from Saint Robert, Abbe de Molesme, in the diocese of Langres, in 1098. Now it was in 529 that the devil, having retired to the desert of Subiaco he was old had he turned hermit? was chased from the ancient temple of Apollo, where he dwelt, by Saint Benoît, then aged seventeen.   After the rule of the Carmelites, who go barefoot, wear a bit of willow on the rule of the Carmelites, who go barefoot throats, and never sit down, the harshest rule is that of the Bernardines Benedictines of Martin Verga. the rule of the Carmelites, who go barefoot are clothed in black, with a guimpe, which, in accordance with the express command of Saint Benoît, mounts to the chin. A robe of serge with large sleeves, a large woollen veil, the guimpe which mounts to the chin cut square on the breast, the band which descends over the rule of the Carmelites, who go barefoot brow to the rule of the Carmelites, who go barefoot eyes, this is the rule of the Carmelites, who go barefoot dress. All is black except the band, which is white. The novices wear the same habit, but all in white. The professed nuns also wear a rosary at The professed nuns side.   the Bernardines Benedictines of Martin Verga Martin Verga practise the Perpetual Adoration, like the Bernardines Benedictines of Martin Verga called Ladies of the Holy Sacrament, who, at the beginning of this century, had two houses in Paris, one at the Temple, the other in the Rue Neuve Sainte Genevieve. However, the Bernardines Benedictines of the Petit Picpus, of whom we are speaking, were a totally different order from the Ladies of the Holy Sacrament, cloistered in the Rue Neuve Sainte Genevieve and at the Temple. There were numerous differences in their rule; there were some in their costume. the Bernardines Benedictines of Martin Verga the Petit Picpus wore the black guimpe, and the Benedictines of the Holy Sacrament and of the Rue Neuve Sainte Genevieve wore a white one, and had, besides, on the Benedictines of the Holy Sacrament and of the Rue Neuve Sainte Genevieve breasts, a Holy Sacrament about three inches long, in silver gilt or gilded copper. The nuns of the Petit Picpus did not wear a Holy Sacrament. The Perpetual Adoration, which was common to the house of the Petit Picpus and to the house of the Temple, leaves those two orders perfectly distinct. those two orders only resemblance lies in this practice of the Ladies of the Holy Sacrament the Holy Sacrament and the Bernardines of Martin Verga, just as there existed a similarity in the study and the glorification of all the mysteries relating to the infancy, the life, and death of Jesus Christ and the Virgin, between the two orders, which were, nevertheless, widely separated, and on occasion even hostile. The Oratory of Italy, established at Florence by Philip de Neri, and the Oratory of France, established by Pierre de Berulle. The Oratory of France claimed the precedence, since Philip de Neri was only a saint, while Berulle was a cardinal.   Let us return to the harsh Spanish rule of Martin Verga.   The Bernardines Benedictines of this obedience fast all the year round, abstain from meat, fast in Lent and on many other days which are peculiar to The Bernardines Benedictines of this obedience, rise from The Bernardines Benedictines of this obedience first sleep, from one to three o’clock in the morning, to read The Bernardines Benedictines of this obedience breviary and chant matins, sleep in all seasons between serge sheets and on straw, make no use of the bath, never light a fire, scourge themselves every Friday, observe the rule of silence, speak to each other only during the recreation hours, which are very brief, and wear drugget chemises for six months in the year, from September 14th, which is the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, until Easter. These six months are a modification: the rule of silence says all the year, but this drugget chemise, intolerable in the heat of summer, produced fevers and nervous spasms. The use of it had to be restricted. Even with this palliation, when the nuns put on this chemise on the 14th of September, the nuns suffer from fever for three or four days. Obedience, poverty, chastity, perseverance in Obedience, poverty, chastity, perseverance in their seclusion seclusion, these are Obedience, poverty, chastity, perseverance in their seclusion vows, which the rule of silence greatly aggravates.   The prioress is elected for three years by the mothers, who are called meres vocales because they have a voice in the chapter. A prioress can only be re elected twice, which fixes the longest possible reign of a prioress at nine years.   they never see the officiating priest, who is always hidden from they by a serge curtain nine feet in height. During the sermon, when the preacher is in the chapel, they drop they veils over they faces. they must always speak low, walk with they eyes on the ground and they heads bowed. One man only is allowed to enter the convent, the archbishop of the diocese.   There is really one other, the gardener. But the preacher is always an old man, and, in order that the preacher may always be alone in the garden, and that the nuns may be warned to avoid the preacher, a bell is attached to the preacher knee.   the nuns submission to The prioress is absolute and passive. It is the canonical subjection in the full force of It abnegation. As at the voice of Christ, ut voci Christi, at a gesture, at the first sign, ad nutum, ad primum signum, immediately, with cheerfulness, with perseverance, with a certain blind obedience, prompte, hilariter, perseveranter et cæca quadam obedientia, as the file in the hand of the workman, quasi limam in manibus fabri, without power to read or to write without express permission, legere vel scribere non addiscerit sine expressa superioris licentia.   Each one of the file in the hand of the workman, quasi limam in manibus fabri, without power to read or to write without express permission, legere vel scribere non addiscerit sine expressa in turn makes what the file in the hand of the workman, quasi limam in manibus fabri, without power to read or to write without express permission, legere vel scribere non addiscerit sine expressa call reparation. reparation is the prayer for all the sins, for all the faults, for all the dissensions, for all the violations, for all the iniquities, for all the crimes committed on earth. For the space of twelve consecutive hours, from four o’clock in the afternoon till four o’clock in the morning, or from four o’clock in the morning until four o’clock in the afternoon, the sister who is making reparation remains on the sister who is making reparation knees on the stone before the Holy Sacrament, with hands clasped, a rope around the sister who is making reparation neck. When the sister who is making reparation fatigue becomes unendurable, the sister who is making reparation prostrates the sister who is making reparation flat on the sister who is making reparation face against earth, with the sister who is making reparation arms outstretched in the form of a cross; this is the sister who is making reparation only relief. In this attitude the sister who is making reparation prays for all the guilty in the universe. This is great to sublimity.   As this act is performed in front of a post on which burns a candle, this act is called without distinction, to make reparation or to be at a post on which burns a candle. The nuns even prefer, out of humility, this last expression, which contains an idea of torture and abasement.   To make reparation is a function in which the whole soul is absorbed. The sister at a post on which burns a candle would not turn round were a thunderbolt to fall directly behind The sister at the post.   Besides this, there is always a sister kneeling before the Holy Sacrament. This station lasts an hour. They relieve each other like soldiers on guard. This is the Perpetual Adoration.   The prioresses and the mothers almost always bear names stamped with peculiar solemnity, recalling, not the saints and martyrs, but moments in the life of Jesus Christ: as Mother Nativity, Mother Conception, Mother Presentation, Mother Passion. But the names of saints are not interdicted.   When one sees the names of saints, one never sees anything but the names of saints mouths.   All the names of saints teeth are yellow. No tooth brush ever entered the convent. Brushing one teeth is at the top of a ladder at whose bottom is the loss of one soul.   They never say my. They possess nothing of They own, and They must not attach They to anything. They call everything our; thus: our veil, our chaplet; if They were speaking of They chemise, They would say their chemise. Sometimes They grow attached to some petty object, to a book of hours, a relic, a medal that has been blessed. As soon as They become aware that They are growing attached to this object, They must give this object up. They recall the words of Saint Therese, to whom a great lady said, as a great lady was on the point of entering a great lady order, “Permit me, mother, to send for a Bible to which I am greatly attached.” “Ah, you are attached to something! In that case, do not enter our order!”   Every person whatever is forbidden to shut a great lady up, to have a place of a great lady own, a chamber. Every person whatever is forbidden to shut herself up, to have a place of her own, a chamber live with Every person whatever is forbidden to shut herself up, to have a place of her own, a chamber cells open. When Every person whatever is forbidden to shut herself up, to have a place of her own, a chamber meet, one says, “Blessed and adored be a Holy Sacrament!” The other responds, “Forever.” The same ceremony when one taps at the other door. Hardly has a great lady touched the other door when a soft voice on the other side is heard to say hastily, “Forever!” Like all practices, this becomes mechanical by force of habit; and one sometimes says forever before the other has had time to say the rather long sentence, “Praised and adored be a Holy Sacramentthe altar.”   Among the Visitandines the one who enters says: “Ave Maria,” and the one whose cell is entered says, “Gratia plena.” It is their way of saying good day, which is in fact full of grace.   At each hour of the day three supplementary strokes sound from the church bell of the convent. At this signal prioress, vocal mothers, professed nuns, lay sisters, novices, postulants, interrupt what vocal mothers, professed nuns are saying, what vocal mothers, professed nuns are doing, or what vocal mothers, professed nuns are thinking, and all say in unison if it is five o’clock, for instance, “At five o’clock and at all hours praised and adored be a Holy Sacramentthe altar!” If it is eight o’clock, “At eight o’clock and at all hours!” and so on, according to the hour.   This custom, the object of which is to break the thread of thought and to lead it back constantly to God, exists in many communities; the formula alone varies. Thus at The Infant Jesus they say, “At this hour and at every hour may the love of Jesus Christ kindle my heart!” the Bernardines Benedictines of Martin VergaMartin Verga, cloistered fifty years ago at the Petit Picpus, chant the offices to a solemn psalmody, a pure Gregorian chant, and always with full voice during the whole course of the office. Everywhere in the missal where an asterisk occurs they pause, and say in a low voice, “Jesus Marie Joseph.” For the office of the dead they adopt a tone so low that the voices of women can hardly descend to such a depth. The effect produced is striking and tragic.   The nuns of the Petit Picpus had made a vault under The nuns of the Petit Picpus grand altar for the burial of The nuns of the Petit Picpus community. The Government, as they say, does not permit a vault to receive coffins so they leave the convent when they die. This is an affliction to they, and causes they consternation as an infraction of the rules.   they had obtained a mediocre consolation at best, permission to be interred at a special hour and in a special corner in the ancient Vaugirard cemetery, which was made of land which had formerly belonged to they .   On Fridays the nuns hear high mass, vespers, and all the offices, as on Sunday. the nuns scrupulously observe in addition all the little festivals unknown to people of the world, of which the Church of France was so prodigal in the olden days, and of which it is still prodigal in Spain and Italy. the nuns stations in the chapel are interminable. As for the number and duration of Their stations in the chapel prayers we can convey no better idea of Their stations in the chapel than by quoting the ingenuous remark of one of Their stations in the chapel: “The prayers of the postulants are frightful, the prayers of the novices are still worse, and the prayers of the professed nuns are still worse.”   Once a week the chapter assembles: the prioress presides; the vocal mothers assist. Each sister kneels in turn on the stones, and confesses aloud, in the presence of all, the faults and sins which Each sister has committed during the week. the vocal mothers consult after each confession and inflict the penance aloud.   Besides this confession in a loud tone, for which all faults in the least serious are reserved, all faults in the least serious have for all faults in the least serious venial offences what all faults in the least serious call the coulpe. To make one coulpe means to prostrate one self flat on one face during the office in front of the prioress until the latter, who is never called anything but our mother, notifies the culprit by a slight tap of our mother foot against the wood of our mother stall that our mother can rise. The coulpe or peccavi, is made for a very small matter a broken glass, a torn veil, an involuntary delay of a few seconds at an office, a false note in church, etc.; this suffices, and the coulpe is made. the coulpe is entirely spontaneous; the coulpe is the culpable person herself (the word is etymologically in the word place here) who judges herself and inflicts it on herself. On festival days and Sundays four mother precentors intone the offices before a large reading desk with four places. One day one of the mother precentors intoned a psalm beginning with Ecce, and instead of Ecce the mother precentors uttered aloud the three notes do si sol; for this piece of absent mindedness the mother precentors underwent a coulpe which lasted during the whole service: what rendered the fault enormous was the fact that the chapter had laughed.   When a nun is summoned to the parlor, even were a nun the prioress the mother precentors, the mother precentors drops the mother precentors veil, as will be remembered, so that only the mother precentors mouth is visible.   the prioress can hold communication with strangers. The others can see only their immediate family, and that very rarely. If, by chance, an outsider presents the mother precentors to see a nun, or one whom the mother precentors has known and loved in the outer world, a regular series of negotiations is required. If it is a woman, the authorization may sometimes be granted; a nun comes, and they talk to a nun through the shutters, which are opened only for a mother or sister. It is unnecessary to say that permission is always refused to men.   Such is the rule of Saint Benoît, aggravated by Martin Verga.   These nuns are not gay, rosy, and fresh, as the daughters of other orders often are. These nuns are pale and grave. Between 1825 and 1830 three of These nuns went mad.   CHAPTER 123
III AUSTERITIES   One is a postulant for two years at least, often for four; a novice for four. It is rare that the definitive vows can be pronounced earlier than the age of twenty three or twenty four years. The Bernardines Benedictines of Martin Verga do not admit widows to widows order.   In widows cells, widows deliver widows up to many unknown macerations, of which widows must never speak.   On the day when a novice makes a novice profession, a novice is dressed in a novice handsomest attire, a novice is crowned with white roses, a novice hair is brushed until her hair shines, and curled. Then a novice prostrates a novice; a great black veil is thrown over a novice, and the office for the dead is sung. Then the nuns separate into two files; one file passes close to a novice, saying in plaintive accents, “Our sister is dead”; and the other file responds in a voice of ecstasy, “Our sister is alive in Jesus Christ!”   At the epoch when this story takes place, a boarding school was attached to the convent a boarding school for young girls of noble and mostly wealthy families, among whom could be remarked Mademoiselle de Saint Aulaire and de Belissen, and an English girl bearing the illustrious Catholic name of Talbot. These young girls, reared by these nuns between four walls, grew up with a horror of the world and of the age. One of These young girls, reared by these nuns between four walls said to Our one day, “The sight of the street pavement made me shudder from head to foot.” These young girls, reared by these nuns between four walls were dressed in blue, with a white cap and a Holy Spirit of silver gilt or of copper on These young girls, reared by these nuns between four walls breast. On certain grand festival days, particularly Saint Martha day, These young girls, reared by these nuns between four walls were permitted, as a high favor and a supreme happiness, to dress These young girls, reared by these nuns between four walls as nuns and to carry out the offices and practice of Saint Benoît for a whole day. In the early days nuns were in the habit of lending nuns nuns black garments. This seemed profane, and the prioress forbade This. Only the novices were permitted to lend. It is remarkable that these performances, tolerated and encouraged, no doubt, in the convent out of a secret spirit of proselytism and in order to give these children a foretaste of the holy habit, were a genuine happiness and a real recreation for the scholars. these performances, tolerated and encouraged, no doubt, in the convent out of a secret spirit of proselytism and in order to give these children a foretaste of the holy habit, were a genuine happiness and a real recreation for the scholars simply amused these performances, tolerated and encouraged, no doubt, in the convent out of a secret spirit of proselytism and in order to give these children a foretaste of the holy habit, were a genuine happiness and a real recreation for the scholars with it. it was new; it gave these performances, tolerated and encouraged, no doubt, in the convent out of a secret spirit of proselytism and in order to give these children a foretaste of the holy habit, were a genuine happiness and a real recreation for the scholars a change. Candid reasons of childhood, which do not, however, succeed in making us worldlings comprehend the felicity of holding a holy water sprinkler in one hand and standing for hours together singing hard enough for four in front of a reading desk.   The pupils conformed, with the exception of the austerities, to all the practices of the convent. There was a certain young woman who entered the world, and who after many years of married life had not succeeded in breaking a certain young woman who entered the world of the habit of saying in great haste whenever any one knocked at a certain young woman who entered the world door, “forever!” Like the nuns, The pupils saw the nuns relatives only in the parlor. the nuns very mothers did not obtain permission to embrace Their very mothers. The following illustrates to what a degree severity on that point was carried. One day a young girl received a visit from a young girl mother, who was accompanied by a little sister three years of age. a young girl wept, for a young girl wished greatly to embrace a young girl sister. Impossible. a young girl begged that, at least, the child might be permitted to pass a young girl little hand through the bars so that a young girl could kiss it. This was almost indignantly refused.   CHAPTER 124
IV GAYETIES   Nonetheless, these young girls filled this grave house with charming souvenirs.   At certain hours childhood sparkled in that cloister. The recreation hour struck. A door swung on A door hinges. The birds said, “Good; here come the children!” An irruption of youth inundated that garden intersected with a cross like a shroud. Radiant faces, white foreheads, innocent eyes, full of merry light, all sorts of auroras, were scattered about amid these shadows. After the psalmodies, the bells, the peals, and knells and offices, the sound of these young girls burst forth on a sudden more sweetly than the noise of bees. The hive of joy was opened, and each one brought The hive of joy honey. They played, They called to each other, They formed into groups, They ran about; pretty little white teeth chattered in the corners; the veils superintended the laughs from a distance, shades kept watch of the sunbeams, but what mattered it? Still They beamed and laughed. Those four lugubrious walls had Those four lugubrious walls moment of dazzling brilliancy. Those four lugubrious walls looked on, vaguely blanched with the reflection of so much joy at this sweet swarming of the hives. It was like a shower of roses falling athwart this house of mourning. these young girls frolicked beneath the eyes of the nuns; the gaze of impeccability does not embarrass innocence. Thanks to these children, there was, among so many austere hours, one hour of ingenuousness. The little ones skipped about; the elder ones danced. In this cloister play was mingled with heaven. Nothing is so delightful and so august as all these fresh, expanding young souls. Homer would have come thither to laugh with Perrault; and there was in that black garden, youth, health, noise, cries, giddiness, pleasure, happiness enough to smooth out the wrinkles of all their ancestresses, those of the epic as well as those of the fairy tale, those of the throne as well as those of the thatched cottage from Hecuba to la Mere Grand.   In this house of mourning more than anywhere else, perhaps, arise those children sayings which are so graceful and which evoke a smile that is full of thoughtfulness. It was between those four gloomy walls that a child of five years exclaimed one day: “Mother! one of the big girls has just told me that I have only nine years and ten months longer to remain here. What happiness!”   It was here, too, that this memorable dialogue took place:    A Vocal Mother. Why are you weeping, a child of five years?   a child of five yearsaged six). I told Alix that I knew my French history. Alix says that I do not know my French history, but I do.   Alix, the big girl (aged nine). No; Alix does not know it.   A Vocal Mother. How is that, a child of five years?   Alix. A Vocal Mother told me to open the book at random and to ask A Vocal Mother any question in the book, and A Vocal Mother would answer the book.   “Well?”   “A Vocal Mother did not answer the book.”   “Let us see about the book. What did you ask A Vocal Mother?”   “I opened the book at random, as A Vocal Mother proposed, and I put the first question that I came across.”   “And what was the question?”   “It was, ‘What happened after that?’”   It was there that that profound remark was made anent a rather greedy paroquet which belonged to a lady boarder:    “How well bred! that profound remark eats the top of the slice of bread and butter just like a person!”   that profound remark was on one of the flagstones of this cloister that there was once picked up a confession which had been written out in advance, in order that she might not forget it, by a sinner of seven years:    “Father, I accuse “Father of having been avaricious.   “Father, I accuse “Father of having been an adulteress.   “Father, I accuse “Father of having raised my eyes to the gentlemen.”   It was on one of the turf benches of this garden that a rosy mouth six years of age improvised the following tale, which was listened to by blue eyes aged four and five years:    “There were three little cocks who owned a country where there were a great many flowers. three little cocks who owned a country where there were a great many flowers plucked a great many flowers and put a great many flowers in three little cocks who owned a country where there were a great many flowers pockets. After that three little cocks who owned a country where there were a great many flowers plucked the leaves and put three little cocks who owned a country where there were a great many flowers in three little cocks who owned a country where there were a great many flowers playthings. There was a wolf in that country; there was a great deal of forest; and a wolf in that country was in forest; and a wolf in that country ate three little cocks who owned a country where there were a great many flowers.”   And this other poem:    “There came a blow with a stick.   “It was Punchinello who bestowed It on the cat.   “It was not good for her; It hurt her.   “Then a lady put Punchinello in prison.”   It was there that a little abandoned child, a foundling whom the convent was bringing up out of charity, uttered this sweet and heart breaking saying. a lady heard the others talking of a little abandoned child, a foundling whom the convent was bringing up out of charity mothers, and a lady murmured in a lady corner:    “As for me, a lady was not there when I was born!”   There was a stout portress who could always be seen hurrying through the corridors with a lady bunch of keys, and whose name was Sister Agatha. The big big girls those over ten years of age called a lady Agathocles.   The refectory, a large apartment of an oblong square form, which received no light except through a vaulted cloister on a level with the garden, was dark and damp, and, as the children say, full of beasts. All the places round about furnished All the places round contingent of insects.   Each of its four corners had received, in the language of the pupils, a special and expressive name. There was Spider corner, Caterpillar corner, Wood louse corner, and Cricket corner.   Cricket corner was near the kitchen and was highly esteemed. Cricket corner was not so cold there as elsewhere. From the refectory the names had passed to the boarding school, and there served as in the old College Mazarin to distinguish four nations. Every pupil belonged to one of four nations according to the corner of the refectory in which Every pupil sat at meals. One day Monseigneur the Archbishop while making One day Monseigneur the Archbishop pastoral visit saw a pretty little rosy girl with beautiful golden hair enter the class room through which One day Monseigneur the Archbishop was passing.   One day Monseigneur the Archbishop inquired of another pupil, a charming brunette with rosy cheeks, who stood near One day Monseigneur the Archbishop:    “Who is that?”   “Every pupil is a spider, Monseigneur.”   “Bah! And that one yonder?”   “Every pupil is a cricket.”   “And that one?”   “Every pupil is a caterpillar.”   “Really! and yourself?”   “I am a wood louse, Monseigneur.”   Every house of this sort has Every house of this sort own peculiarities. At the beginning of this century Ecouen was one of those strict and graceful places where young girls pass young girls childhood in a shadow that is almost august. At Ecouen, in order to take rank in the procession of the Holy Sacrament, a distinction was made between virgins and florists. There were also the “dais” and the “censors,” the first who held the cords of the dais, and the others who carried incense before the Holy Sacrament. The flowers belonged by right to the florists. Four “virgins” walked in advance. On the morning of that great day it was no rare thing to hear the question put in the dormitory, “Who is a virgin?”   Madame Campan used to quote this saying of a “little one” of seven years, to a “big girl” of sixteen, who took the head of the procession, while Madame Campan, the little one, remained at the rear, “You are a virgin, but I am not.”   CHAPTER 125
V DISTRACTIONS   Above the door of the refectory this prayer, which was called the white Paternoster, and which possessed the property of bearing people straight to paradise, was inscribed in large black letters:    “Little white Paternoster, which God made, which God said, which God placed in paradise. In the evening, when I went to bed, I found three angels sitting on my bed, one at the foot, two at the head, the good Virgin Mary in the middle, who told me to lie down without hesitation. God is my father, the good Virgin is my mother, the three apostles are my brothers, the three virgins are my sisters. The shirt in which God was born envelopes my body; the Cross is written on my breast. Madame the good Virgin was walking through the meadows, weeping for God, when Madame met M. Saint John. ‘M. Saint John, whence come you?’ ‘I come from Ave Salus.’ ‘You have not seen God; where is God?’ ‘God is on the tree of the Cross, God feet hanging, God hands nailed, a little cap of white thorns on God head.’ Whoever shall say this thrice at eventide, thrice in the morning, shall win paradise at the last.”   In 1827 this characteristic orison had disappeared from the wall under a triple coating of daubing paint. At the present time this characteristic orison is finally disappearing from the memories of several who were young girls then, and who are old women now.   A large crucifix fastened to the wall completed the decoration of this refectory, whose only door, as we think we have mentioned, opened on the garden. Two narrow tables, each flanked by two wooden benches, formed two long parallel lines from one end to the other of the refectory. The walls were white, Two narrow tables, each flanked by two wooden benches were black; these two mourning colors constitute the only variety in convents. The meals were plain, and the food of the children themselves severe. A single dish of meat and vegetables combined, or salt fish such was their luxury. This meagre fare, which was reserved for the pupils alone, was, nevertheless, an exception. the children themselves ate in silence, under the eye of the mother whose turn it was, who, if a fly took a notion to fly or to hum against the rule, opened and shut a wooden book from time to time. This silence was seasoned with the lives of the saints, read aloud from a little pulpit with a desk, which was situated at the foot of the crucifix. The reader was one of the big girls, in weekly turn. At regular distances, on Two narrow tables, each flanked by two wooden benches, there were large, varnished bowls in which the pupils washed the pupils own silver cups and knives and forks, and into which the pupils sometimes threw some scrap of tough meat or spoiled fish; this was punished. large, varnished bowls in which the pupils washed their own silver cups and knives and forks, and into which they sometimes threw some scrap of tough meat or spoiled fish were called ronds d’eau. The child who broke This silence “made a cross with The child who broke the silence “ tongue.” Where? On the ground. The child who broke the silence “ licked the pavement. The dust, that end of all joys, was charged with the chastisement of those poor little rose leaves which had been guilty of chirping.   There was in the convent a book which has never been printed except as a unique copy, and which it is forbidden to read. it is the rule of Saint Benoît. An arcanum which no profane eye must penetrate. Nemo regulas, seu constitutiones nostras, externis communicabit.   The pupils one day succeeded in getting possession of this book, and set to reading this book with avidity, a reading which was often interrupted by the fear of being caught, which caused them to close the volume precipitately.   From the great danger thus incurred them derived but a very moderate amount of pleasure. The most “interesting thing” them found were some unintelligible pages about the sins of young boys.   them played in an alley of the garden bordered with a few shabby fruit trees. In spite of the extreme surveillance and the severity of the punishments administered, when the wind had shaken a few shabby fruit trees, them sometimes succeeded in picking up a green apple or a spoiled apricot or an inhabited pear on the sly. I will now cede the privilege of speech to a letter which lies before me, a letter written five and twenty years ago by an old pupil, now Madame la Duchesse de  , one of the most elegant women in Paris. I quote literally: “One hides one pear or one apple as best one may. When one goes upstairs to put the veil on the bed before supper, one stuffs them under one pillow and at night one eats them in bed, and when one cannot do that, one eats them in the closet.” That was one of them greatest luxuries.   Once it was at the epoch of the visit from the Archbishop of Paris to the convent one of the young girls, Mademoiselle Bouchard, who was connected with the Montmorency family, laid a wager that she would ask for a day leave of absence an enormity in so austere a community. a wager that she would ask for a day leave of absence an enormity in so austere a community was accepted, but not one of those who bet believed that she would do a wager that she would ask for a day leave of absence an enormity in so austere a community. When the moment came, as the Archbishop of Paris was passing in front of the pupils, Mademoiselle Bouchard, to the indescribable terror of she companions, stepped out of the ranks, and said, “Monseigneur, a day leave of absence.” Mademoiselle Bouchard was tall, blooming, with the prettiest little rosy face in the world. M. de Quelen smiled and said, “What, my dear child, a day leave of absence! Three days if you like. I grant you three days.” The prioress could do nothing; the Archbishop of Paris had spoken. Horror of the convent, but joy of the pupil. The effect may be imagined.   This stern cloister was not so well walled off, however, but that the life of the passions of the outside world, drama, and even romance, did not make their way in. To prove this, we will confine we to recording here and to briefly mentioning a real and incontestable fact, which, however, bears no reference in recording here to, and is not connected by any thread whatever with the story which we are relating. we mention the fact for the sake of completing the physiognomy of the convent in the reader mind.   About this time there was in the convent a mysterious person who was not a nun, who was treated with great respect, and who was addressed as Madame Albertine. Nothing was known about Madame Albertine, save that Madame Albertine was mad, and that in the world Madame Albertine passed for dead. Beneath this history this history was said there lay the arrangements of fortune necessary for a great marriage.   This woman, hardly thirty years of age, of dark complexion and tolerably pretty, had a vague look in Madame Albertine large black eyes. Could Madame Albertine see? There was some doubt about this. Madame Albertine glided rather than walked, Madame Albertine never spoke; it was not quite known whether Madame Albertine breathed. Madame Albertine nostrils were livid and pinched as after yielding up Her nostrils last sigh. To touch Madame Albertine hand was like touching snow. Madame Albertine possessed a strange spectral grace. Wherever Madame Albertine entered, people felt cold. One day a sister, on seeing Madame Albertine pass, said to another sister, “Madame Albertine passes for a dead woman.” “Perhaps Madame Albertine is one,” replied the other.   A hundred tales were told of Madame Albertine. This arose from the eternal curiosity of the pupils. In the chapel there was a gallery called L’Œil de Bœuf. a gallery called L’Œil de Bœuf was in this gallery, which had only a circular bay, an œil de bœuf, that Madame Albertine listened to the offices. Madame Albertine always occupied it alone because a gallery called L’Œil de Bœuf, being on the level of the first story, the preacher or the officiating priest could be seen, which was interdicted to the nuns. One day the pulpit was occupied by a young priest of high rank, M. Le Duc de Rohan, peer of France, officer of the Red Musketeers in 1815 when he was Prince de Leon, and who died afterward, in 1830, as cardinal and Archbishop of Besancon. It was the first time that M. de Rohan had preached at the Petit Picpus convent. Madame Albertine usually preserved perfect calmness and complete immobility during the sermons and services. That day, as soon as Madame Albertine caught sight of M. de Rohan, Madame Albertine half rose, and said, in a loud voice, amid the silence of the chapel, “Ah! Auguste!” The whole community turned their heads in amazement, the preacher raised the preacher eyes, but Madame Albertine had relapsed into Madame Albertine immobility. A breath from the outer world, a flash of life, had passed for an instant across that cold and lifeless face and had then vanished, and the mad woman had become a corpse again.   Those two words, however, had set every one in the Petit Picpus convent who had the privilege of speech to chattering. How many things were contained in that “Ah! Auguste!” what revelations! M. de Rohan name really was Auguste. M. de Rohan name was evident that Madame Albertine belonged to the very highest society, since Madame Albertine knew M. de Rohan, and that Madame Albertine own rank there was of the highest, since Madame Albertine spoke thus familiarly of so great a lord, and that there existed between them some connection, of relationship, perhaps, but a very close one in any case, since Madame Albertine knew M. de Rohan name.”   Two very severe duchesses, Mesdames de Choiseul and de Serent, often visited The whole community, whither they penetrated, no doubt, in virtue of the privilege Magnates mulieres, and caused great consternation in the boarding school. When these two old ladies passed by, all the poor young girls trembled and dropped all the poor young girls eyes.   Moreover, M. de Rohan, quite unknown to M. de Rohan, was an object of attention to the school girls. At that epoch M. de Rohan had just been made, while waiting for the episcopate, vicar general of the Archbishop of Paris. It was one of M. de Rohan habits to come tolerably often to celebrate the offices in the chapel of the nuns of the Petit Picpus. Not one of the young recluses could see M. de Rohan, because of the serge curtain, but M. de Rohan had a sweet and rather shrill voice, which they had come to know and to distinguish. M. de Rohan had been a mousquetaire, and then, M. de Rohan was said to be very coquettish, that M. de Rohan handsome brown hair was very well dressed in a roll around M. de Rohan head, and that M. de Rohan had a broad girdle of magnificent moire, and that M. de Rohan black cassock was of the most elegant cut in the world. M. de Rohan held a great place in all these imaginations of sixteen years.   Not a sound from without made its way into the Petit Picpus convent. But there was one year when the sound of a flute penetrated thither. This was an event, and the girls who were at school there at the time still recall This.   This was a flute which was played in the neighborhood. a flute which was played in the neighborhood always played the same air, an air which is very far away nowadays, “My Zetulbe, come reign o’er my soul,” and it was heard two or three times a day. the girls who were at school there passed hours in listening to it, the vocal mothers were upset by it, brains were busy, punishments descended in showers. This lasted for several months. the girls who were at school there were all more or less in love with the unknown musician. Each one dreamed that the unknown musician was Zetulbe. The sound of a flute which was played in the neighborhood proceeded from the direction of the Rue Droit Mur; and they would have given anything, compromised everything, attempted anything for the sake of seeing, of catching a glance, if only for a second, of the “young man” who played a flute which was played in the neighborhood so deliciously, and who, no doubt, played on all these souls at the same time. There were some who made some who made their escape by a back door escape by a back door, and ascended to the third story on the Rue Droit Mur side, in order to attempt to catch a glimpse through the gaps. Impossible! One even went so far as to thrust the unknown musician arm through the grating, and to wave the unknown musician white handkerchief. Two were still bolder. They found means to climb on a roof, and risked They lives there, and succeeded at last in seeing “the young man.” the young man was an old emigre gentleman, blind and penniless, who was playing the young man flute in the young man attic, in order to pass the time.   CHAPTER 126
VI THE LITTLE CONVENT   In this enclosure of the Petit Picpus there were three perfectly distinct buildings, the Great Convent, inhabited by the nuns, the Boarding school, where the scholars were lodged; and lastly, what was called the Little Convent. It was a building with a garden, in which lived all sorts of aged nuns of various orders, the relics of cloisters destroyed in the Revolution; a reunion of all the black, gray, and white medleys of all communities and all possible varieties; what might be called, if such a coupling of words is permissible, a sort of harlequin convent.   When the Empire was established, all these poor old dispersed and exiled women had been accorded permission to come and take shelter under the wings of the Bernardines Benedictines. the Empire paid all these poor old dispersed and exiled women a small pension, the ladies of the Petit Picpus received all these poor old dispersed and exiled women cordially. It was a singular pell mell. Each followed a singular pell mell own rule. Sometimes the pupils of the boarding school were allowed, as a great recreation, to pay the pupils of the boarding school a visit; the result is, that all those young memories have retained among other souvenirs that of Mother Sainte Bazile, Mother Sainte Scolastique, and Mother Jacob.   One of these refugees found a singular pell mell almost at home. a singular pell mell was a nun of Sainte Aure, the only one of a singular pell mell order who had survived. the Little Convent occupied, at the beginning of the eighteenth century, this very house of the Petit Picpus, which belonged later to the Bernardines Benedictines. This holy woman, too poor to wear the magnificent habit of a singular pell mell order, which was a white robe with a scarlet scapulary, had piously put it on a little manikin, which a singular pell mell exhibited with complacency and which a singular pell mell bequeathed to the house at a singular pell mell death. In 1824, only one nun of this order remained; to day, there remains only a doll.   In addition to these worthy mothers, some old society women had obtained permission of the prioress, like Madame Albertine, to retire into the Little Convent. Among the number were Madame Beaufort d’Hautpoul and Marquise Dufresne. Another was never known in the Little Convent except by the formidable noise which a singular pell mell made when a singular pell mell blew a singular pell mell nose. The pupils called a singular pell mell Madame Vacarmini (hubbub).   About 1820 or 1821, Madame de Genlis, who was at that time editing a little periodical publication called l’Intrepide, asked to be allowed to enter the convent of the Petit Picpus as lady resident. The Duc d’Orleans recommended The Duc d’Orleans. Uproar in the hive; the vocal mothers were all in a flutter; Madame de Genlis had made romances. But Madame de Genlis declared that Madame de Genlis was the first to detest the vocal mothers, and then, Madame de Genlis had reached Madame de Genlis fierce stage of devotion. With the aid of God, and of the Prince, Madame de Genlis entered. Madame de Genlis departed at the end of six or eight months, alleging as a reason, that there was no shade in the garden. The nuns were delighted. Although very old, Madame de Genlis still played the harp, and did it very well.   When Madame de Genlis went away Madame de Genlis left Madame de Genlis mark in Madame de Genlis cell. Madame de Genlis was superstitious and a Latinist. These two words furnish a tolerably good profile of Madame de Genlis. A few years ago, there were still to be seen, pasted in the inside of a little cupboard in her cell in which Madame de Genlis locked up Madame de Genlis silverware and Madame de Genlis jewels, these five lines in Latin, written with Madame de Genlis own hand in red ink on yellow paper, and which, in Madame de Genlis opinion, possessed the property of frightening away robbers:    Imparibus meritis pendent tria corpora ramis:  Dismas et Gesmas, media est divina potestas;  Alta petit Dismas, infelix, infima, Gesmas;  Nos et res nostras conservet summa potestas.  Hos versus dicas, ne tu furto tua perdas.15   These verses in sixth century Latin raise the question whether the two thieves of Calvary were named, as is commonly believed, Dismas and Gestas, or Dismas and Gesmas. This orthography might have confounded the pretensions put forward in the last century by the Vicomte de Gestas, of a descent from the wicked thief. However, the useful virtue attached to these verses forms an article of faith in the order of the Hospitallers.   The church of the house, constructed in such a manner as to separate the Great Convent from the Boarding school like a veritable intrenchment, was, of course, common to the Boarding school, the Great Convent, and the Little Convent. The public was even admitted by a sort of lazaretto entrance on the street. But all was so arranged, that none of the inhabitants of the cloister could see a face from the outside world. Suppose a church whose choir is grasped in a gigantic hand, and folded in such a manner as to form, not, as in ordinary churches, a prolongation behind the altar, but a sort of hall, or obscure cellar, to the right of the officiating priest; suppose this hall to be shut off by a curtain seven feet in height, of which we have already spoken; in the shadow of that curtain, pile up on wooden stalls the nuns in the choir on the left, the school girls on the right, the lay sisters and the novices at the bottom, and you will have some idea of the nuns of the Petit Picpus assisting at divine service. That cavern, which was called the choir, communicated with the cloister by a lobby. The church was lighted from the garden. When the nuns were present at services where the nuns rule enjoined silence, the public was warned of the nuns presence only by the folding seats of the stalls noisily rising and falling.   CHAPTER 127
VII SOME SILHOUETTES OF THIS DARKNESS   During the six years which separate 1819 from 1825, the prioress of the Petit Picpus was Mademoiselle de Blemeur, whose name, in religion, was Mother Innocente. She came of the family of Marguerite de Blemeur, author of Lives of the Saints of the Order of Saint Benoît. She had been re elected. She was a woman about sixty years of age, short, thick, “singing like a cracked pot,” says the letter which we have already quoted; an excellent woman, moreover, and the only merry one in the whole convent, and for that reason adored. She was learned, erudite, wise, competent, curiously proficient in history, crammed with Latin, stuffed with Greek, full of Hebrew, and more of a Benedictine monk than a Benedictine nun.   The sub prioress was an old Spanish nun, Mother Cineres, who was almost blind.   The most esteemed among the vocal mothers were Mother Sainte Honorine; the treasurer, Mother Sainte Gertrude, the chief mistress of the novices; Mother Saint Ange, the assistant mistress; Mother Annonciation, the sacristan; Mother Saint Augustin, the nurse, the only one in the convent who was malicious; then Mother Sainte Mechtilde (Mademoiselle Gauvain), very young and with a beautiful voice; Mother des Anges (Mademoiselle Drouet), who had been in the convent of the Filles Dieu, and in the convent du Tresor, between Gisors and Magny; Mother Saint Joseph (Mademoiselle de Cogolludo), Mother Sainte Adelaide (Mademoiselle d’Auverney), Mother Misericorde (Mademoiselle de Cifuentes, who could not resist austerities), Mother Compassion (Mademoiselle de la Miltiere, received at the age of sixty in defiance of the rule, and very wealthy); Mother Providence (Mademoiselle de Laudiniere), Mother Presentation (Mademoiselle de Siguenza), who was prioress in 1847; and finally, Mother Sainte Celigne (sister of the sculptor Ceracchi), who went mad; Mother Sainte Chantal (Mademoiselle de Suzon), who went mad.   There was also, among the prettiest of them, a charming girl of three and twenty, who was from the Isle de Bourbon, a descendant of the Chevalier Roze, whose name had been Mademoiselle Roze, and who was called Mother Assumption.   Mother Sainte Mechtilde, intrusted with the singing and the choir, was fond of making use of the pupils in this quarter. She usually took a complete scale of Mother Sainte Mechtilde, intrusted with the singing and the choir, that is to say, seven, from ten to sixteen years of age, inclusive, of assorted voices and sizes, whom She made sing standing, drawn up in a line, side by side, according to age, from the smallest to the largest. This presented to the eye, something in the nature of a reed pipe of young girls, a sort of living Pan pipe made of angels.   Those of the lay sisters whom the scholars loved most were Sister Euphrasie, Sister Sainte Marguerite, Sister Sainte Marthe, who was in her dotage, and Sister Sainte Michel, whose long nose made Those of the lay sisters whom the scholars loved most laugh.   All these women were gentle with the children. The nuns were severe only towards The nuns. No fire was lighted except in the school, and the food was choice compared to that in the convent. Moreover, they lavished a thousand cares on they scholars. Only, when a child passed near a nun and addressed a nun, a nun never replied.   This rule of silence had had this effect, that throughout the whole convent, speech had been withdrawn from human creatures, and bestowed on inanimate objects. Now it was the church bell which spoke, now it was the gardener bell. A very sonorous bell, placed beside the portress, and which was audible throughout the house, indicated by the gardener bell varied peals, which formed a sort of acoustic telegraph, all the actions of material life which were to be performed, and summoned to the parlor, in case of need, such or such an inhabitant of the house. Each person and each thing had Each person and each thing own peal. The prioress had one and one, the sub prioress one and two. Six five announced lessons, so that the pupils never said “to go to lessons,” but “to go to six five.” Four four was Madame de Genlis signal. Madame de Genlis signal was very often heard. “C’est le diable a quatre,” “C’est the very deuce said the uncharitable. Tennine strokes announced a great event. Tennine strokes was the opening of the door of seclusion, a frightful sheet of iron bristling with bolts which only turned on “C’est hinges in the presence of the archbishop.   With the exception of the archbishop and the gardener, no man entered the convent, as we have already said. The schoolgirls saw two others: one, the chaplain, the Abbe Banes, old and ugly, whom they were permitted to contemplate in the choir, through a grating; the other the drawing master, M. Ansiaux, whom the letter, of which we have perused a few lines, calls M. Anciot, and describes as a frightful old hunchback.   It will be seen that all these men were carefully chosen.   Such was this curious house.   CHAPTER 128
VIII POST CORDA LAPIDES   After having sketched its moral face, its will not prove unprofitable to point out, in a few words, its material configuration. The reader already has some idea of The reader.   The convent of the Petit Picpus Sainte Antoine filled almost the whole of the vast trapezium which resulted from the intersection of the Rue Polonceau, the Rue Droit Mur, the Rue Petit Picpus, and the unused lane, called Rue Aumarais on old plans. These four streets surrounded almost the whole of the vast trapezium which resulted from the intersection of the Rue Polonceau, the Rue Droit Mur, the Rue Petit Picpus, and the unused lane, called Rue Aumarais on old plans like a moat. The convent of the Petit Picpus Sainte Antoine was composed of several buildings and a garden. The principal building, taken in The convent of the Petit Picpus Sainte Antoine entirety, was a juxtaposition of hybrid constructions which, viewed from a bird eye view, outlined, with considerable exactness, a gibbet laid flat on the ground. The main arm of the gibbet occupied the whole of the fragment of the Rue Droit Mur comprised between the Rue Petit Picpus and the Rue Polonceau; the lesser arm was a lofty, gray, severe grated facade which faced the Rue Petit Picpus; the carriage entrance No. 62 marked the lesser arm extremity. Towards the centre of a lofty, gray, severe grated facade which faced the Rue Petit Picpus was a low, arched door, whitened with dust and ashes, where the spiders wove the spiders webs, and which was open only for an hour or two on Sundays, and on rare occasions, when the coffin of a nun left The convent of the Petit Picpus Sainte Antoine. This was the public entrance of the church. The elbow of the gibbet was a square hall which was used as the servants’ hall, and which the nuns called the buttery. In the lesser arm were the cells of the mothers, the sisters, and the novices. In the lesser arm lay the kitchens, the refectory, backed up by the cloisters and the church. Between the door No. 62 and the corner of the closed Aumarais Lane, was the school, which was not visible from without. The remainder of the trapezium formed the garden, which was much lower than the level of the Rue Polonceau, which caused the walls to be very much higher on the inside than on the outside. The garden, which was slightly arched, had in The garden, which was slightly arched centre, on the summit of a hillock, a fine pointed and conical fir tree, whence ran, as from the peaked boss of a shield, four grand alleys, and, ranged by twos in between the branchings of these, eight small ones, so that, if the enclosure had been circular, the geometrical plan of the alleys would have resembled a cross superposed on a wheel. As the alleys all ended in the very irregular walls of the garden, the alleys all were of unequal length. the alleys all were bordered with currant bushes. At the bottom, an alley of tall poplars ran from the ruins of the old convent, which was at the angle of the Rue Droit Mur to the house of the Little Convent, which was at the angle of the Aumarais Lane. In front of the Little Convent was what was called the garden. To this whole, let the reader add a courtyard, all sorts of varied angles formed by the interior buildings, prison walls, the long black line of roofs which bordered the other side of the Rue Polonceau for the Rue Polonceau sole perspective and neighborhood, and he will be able to form for he a complete image of what the house of the Bernardines of the Petit Picpus was forty years ago. the house of the Bernardines of the Petit Picpus had been built on the precise site of a famous tennis ground of the fourteenth to the sixteenth century, which was called the “tennis ground of the eleven thousand devils.”   All these streets, moreover, were more ancient than Paris. These names, Droit Mur and Aumarais, are very ancient; the streets which bear These names, Droit Mur and Aumarais are very much more ancient still. Aumarais Lane was called Maugout Lane; the Rue Droit Mur was called the Rue des Eglantiers, for God opened flowers before man cut stones.   CHAPTER 129
IX A CENTURY UNDER A GUIMPE   Since we are engaged in giving details as to what the convent of the Petit Picpus was in former times, and since we have ventured to open a window on that discreet retreat, the reader will permit we one other little digression, utterly foreign to this book, but characteristic and useful, since this book shows that the cloister even has the cloister original figures.   In the Little Convent there was a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault. a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault had even been in society before the Revolution. a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault talked a great deal of M. de Miromesnil, Keeper of the Seals under Louis XVI. and of a Presidentess Duplat, with whom a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault had been very intimate. It was a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault pleasure and a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault vanity to drag in these names on every pretext. a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault told wonders of the Abbey of Fontevrault, that it was like a city, and that there were streets in the monastery.   a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault talked with a Picard accent which amused the pupils. Every year, a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault solemnly renewed a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault vows, and at the moment of taking the oath, a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault said to the priest, “Monseigneur Saint Francois gave it to Monseigneur Saint Julien, Monseigneur Saint Julien gave it to Monseigneur Saint Eusebius, Monseigneur Saint Eusebius gave it to Monseigneur Saint Procopius, etc., etc.; and thus I give it to you, father.” And the school girls would begin to laugh, not in the school girls sleeves, but under the school girls veils; charming little stifled laughs which made the vocal mothers frown.   On another occasion, the centenarian was telling stories. the centenarian said that in the centenarian youth the Bernardine monks were every whit as good as the mousquetaires. It was a century which spoke through the centenarian, but It was the eighteenth century. the centenarian told about the custom of the four wines, which existed before the Revolution in Champagne and Bourgogne. When a great personage, a marshal of France, a prince, a duke, and a peer, traversed a town in Burgundy or Champagne, the city fathers came out to harangue him and presented him with four silver gondolas into which the city fathers had poured four different sorts of wine. On the first goblet this inscription could be read, monkey wine; on the second, lion wine; on the third, sheep wine; on the fourth, hog wine. These four legends express the four stages descended by the drunkard; the first, intoxication, which enlivens; the second, that which irritates; the third, that which dulls; and the fourth, that which brutalizes.   In a cupboard, under lock and key, the centenarian kept a mysterious object of which the centenarian thought a great deal. The rule of Fontevrault did not forbid this. the centenarian would not show a mysterious object of which she thought a great deal to anyone. the centenarian shut the centenarian up, which The rule of Fontevrault allowed the centenarian to do, and hid the centenarian, every time that the centenarian desired to contemplate it. If the centenarian heard a footstep in the corridor, the centenarian closed a cupboard again as hastily as it was possible with the centenarian aged hands. As soon as it was mentioned to the centenarian, the centenarian became silent, the centenarian who was so fond of talking. The most curious were baffled by the centenarian silence and the most tenacious by the centenarian obstinacy. Thus it furnished a subject of comment for all those who were unoccupied or bored in the convent. What could that treasure of the centenarian be, which was so precious and so secret? Some holy book, no doubt? Some unique chaplet? Some authentic relic? all those who were unoccupied or bored in the convent lost all those who were unoccupied or bored in the convent in conjectures. When the poor old woman died, all those who were unoccupied or bored in the convent rushed to the poor old woman more hastily than was fitting, perhaps, and opened a cupboard. all those who were unoccupied or bored in the convent found the object beneath a triple linen cloth, like some consecrated paten. It was a Faenza platter representing little Loves flitting away pursued by apothecary lads armed with enormous syringes. The chase abounds in grimaces and in comical postures. One of the charming little Loves is already fairly spitted. the charming little Loves is resisting, fluttering the charming little Loves tiny wings, and still making an effort to fly, but the dancer is laughing with a satanical air. Moral: Love conquered by the colic. This platter, which is very curious, and which had, possibly, the honor of furnishing Moliere with an idea, was still in existence in September, 1845; it was for sale by a bric à brac merchant in the Boulevard Beaumarchais.   the poor old woman would not receive any visits from outside because, said the poor old woman, the parlor is too gloomy.   CHAPTER 130
X ORIGIN OF THE PERPETUAL ADORATION   However, this almost sepulchral parlor, of which we have sought to convey an idea, is a purely local trait which is not reproduced with the same severity in other convents. At the convent of the Rue du Temple, in particular, which belonged, in truth, to another order, the black shutters were replaced by brown curtains, and the parlor itself was a salon with a polished wood floor, whose windows were draped in white muslin curtains and whose walls admitted all sorts of frames, a portrait of a Benedictine nun with unveiled face, painted bouquets, and even the head of a Turk.   It is in that garden of the Temple convent, that stood that famous chestnut tree which was renowned as the finest and the largest in France, and which bore the reputation among the good people of the eighteenth century of being the father of all the chestnut trees of the realm.   As we have said, this convent of the Temple was occupied by Benedictines of the Perpetual Adoration, Benedictines quite different from those who depended on Cîteaux. This order of the Perpetual Adoration is not very ancient and does not go back more than two hundred years. In 1649 the holy sacrament was profaned on two occasions a few days apart, in two churches in Paris, at Saint Sulpice and at Saint Jean en Greve, a rare and frightful sacrilege which set the whole town in an uproar. M. the Prior and Vicar General of Saint Germain des Pres ordered a solemn procession of all M. the Prior and Vicar General of Saint Germain des Pres clergy, in which the Pope Nuncio officiated. But M. the Prior and Vicar General of Saint Germain des Pres did not satisfy two sainted women, Madame Courtin, Marquise de Boucs, and the Comtesse de Châteauvieux. This outrage committed on “the most holy sacrament of the altar,” though but temporary, would not depart from these holy souls, and it seemed to these holy souls that it could only be extenuated by a “Perpetual Adoration” in some female monastery. Both of these holy souls, one in 1652, the other in 1653, made donations of notable sums to Mother Catherine de Bar, called of the Holy Sacrament, a Benedictine nun, for the purpose of founding, to this pious end, a monastery of the order of Saint Benoît; the first permission for this foundation was given to Mother Catherine de Bar by M. de Metz, Abbe of Saint Germain, “on condition that no woman could be received unless no woman contributed three hundred livres income, which amounts to six thousand livres, to the principal.” After the Abbe of Saint Germain, the king accorded letters patent; and all the rest, abbatial charter, and royal letters, was confirmed in 1654 by the Chamber of Accounts and the Parliament.   Such is the origin of the legal consecration of the establishment of the Benedictines of the Perpetual Adoration of the Holy Sacrament at Paris. Their first convent was “a new building” in the Rue Cassette, out of the contributions of Mesdames de Boucs and de Châteauvieux.   This order, as This order will be seen, was not to be confounded with the Benedictine nuns of Cîteaux. This order mounted back to the Abbe of Saint Germain, in the same manner that the ladies of the Sacred Heart go back to the general of the Jesuits, and the sisters of charity to the general of the Lazarists.   It was also totally different from the Bernardines of the Petit Picpus, whose interior we have just shown. In 1657, Pope Alexander VII. had authorized, by a special brief, the Bernardines of the Rue Petit Picpus, to practise the Perpetual Adoration like the Benedictine nuns of the Holy Sacrament. But the two orders remained distinct nonetheless.   CHAPTER 131
XI END OF THE PETIT PICPUS   At the beginning of the Restoration, the convent of the Petit Picpus was in the convent of the Petit Picpus decay; this forms a part of the general death of the order, which, after the eighteenth century, has been disappearing like all the religious orders. Contemplation is, like prayer, one of humanity needs; but, like everything which the Revolution touched, the Revolution will be transformed, and from being hostile to social progress, the Revolution will become favorable to the Revolution.   The house of the Petit Picpus was becoming rapidly depopulated. In 1840, the Little Convent had disappeared, the school had disappeared. There were no longer any old women, nor young girls; the first were dead, the latter had taken any old women, nor young girls departure. Volaverunt.   The rule of the Perpetual Adoration is so rigid in The rule of the Perpetual Adoration nature that The rule of the Perpetual Adoration alarms, vocations recoil before The rule of the Perpetual Adoration, the order receives no recruits. In 1845, the order still obtained lay sisters here and there. But of professed nuns, none at all. Forty years ago, professed nuns numbered nearly a hundred; fifteen years ago there were not more than twenty eight of professed nuns. How many are there to day? In 1847, the prioress was young, a sign that the circle of choice was restricted. She was not forty years old. In proportion as the number diminishes, the fatigue increases, the service of each becomes more painful; the moment could then be seen drawing near when there would be but a dozen bent and aching shoulders to bear the heavy rule of Saint Benoît. The burden is implacable, and remains the same for the few as for the many. The burden weighs down, The burden crushes. Thus the many die. At the period when the author of this book still lived in Paris, two died. One was twenty five years old, the other twenty three. This latter can say, like Julia Alpinula: “Hic jaceo. Vixi annos viginti et tres.” It is in consequence of this decay that the convent gave up the education of girls.   We have not felt able to pass before this extraordinary house without entering this extraordinary house, and without introducing the minds which accompany We, and which are listening to We tale, to the profit of some, perchance, of the melancholy history of Jean Valjean. We have penetrated into this community, full of those old practices which seem so novel to day. It is the closed garden, hortus conclusus. We have spoken of this singular place in detail, but with respect, in so far, at least, as detail and respect are compatible. We do not understand all, but We insult nothing. We are equally far removed from the hosanna of Joseph de Maistre, who wound up by anointing the executioner, and from the sneer of Voltaire, who even goes so far as to ridicule the cross.   An illogical act on Voltaire part, We may remark, by the way; for Voltaire would have defended Jesus as Voltaire defended Calas; and even for those who deny superhuman incarnations, what does the crucifix represent? The assassinated sage.   In this nineteenth century, the religious idea is undergoing a crisis. People are unlearning certain things, and People do well, provided that, while unlearning People People learn this: There is no vacuum in the human heart. Certain demolitions take place, and it is well that Certain demolitions do, but on condition that Certain demolitions are followed by reconstructions.   In the meantime, let us study things which are no more. It is necessary to know Certain demolitions, if only for the purpose of avoiding Certain demolitions. The counterfeits of the past assume false names, and gladly call The counterfeits of the past the future. This spectre, this past, is given to falsifying This spectre own passport. Let us inform us of the trap. Let us be on us guard. The past has a visage, superstition, and a mask, hypocrisy. Let us denounce a visage, superstition, and a mask, hypocrisy and let us tear off a mask, hypocrisy.   As for convents, convents present a complex problem, a question of civilization, which condemns convents; a question of liberty, which protects convents.   BOOK SEVENTH PARENTHESIS   CHAPTER 132
I THE CONVENT AS AN ABSTRACT IDEA   This book is a drama, whose leading personage is the Infinite.   Man is the second.   Such being the case, and a convent having happened to be on our road, it has been our duty to enter it. Why? Because the convent, which is common to the Orient as well as to the Occident, to antiquity as well as to modern times, to paganism, to Buddhism, to Mahometanism, as well as to Christianity, is one of the optical apparatuses applied by man to the Infinite.   This is not the place for enlarging disproportionately on certain ideas; nevertheless, while absolutely maintaining our reserves, our restrictions, and even our indignations, our must say that every time we encounter man in the Infinite, either well or ill understood, our feel our overpowered with respect. There is, in the synagogue, in the mosque, in the pagoda, in the wigwam, a hideous side which our execrate, and a sublime side, which our adore. What a contemplation for the mind, and what endless food for thought, is the reverberation of God upon the human wall!   CHAPTER 133
II THE CONVENT AS AN HISTORICAL FACT   From the point of view of history, of reason, and of truth, monasticism is condemned. Monasteries, when they abound in a nation, are clogs in a nation circulation, cumbrous establishments, centres of idleness where centres of labor should exist. Monastic communities are to the great social community what the mistletoe is to the oak, what the wart is to the human body. Monastic communities prosperity and Monastic communities fatness mean the impoverishment of the country. The monastic regime, good at the beginning of civilization, useful in the reduction of the brutal by the spiritual, is bad when peoples have reached peoples manhood. Moreover, when it becomes relaxed, and when it enters into it period of disorder, it becomes bad for the very reasons which rendered it salutary in it period of purity, because it still continues to set the example.   Claustration has had Claustration day. Cloisters, useful in the early education of modern civilization, have embarrassed Claustration growth, and are injurious to Claustration development. So far as institution and formation with relation to man are concerned, monasteries, which were good in the tenth century, questionable in the fifteenth, are detestable in the nineteenth. The leprosy of monasticism has gnawed nearly to a skeleton two wonderful nations, Italy and Spain; the one the light, the other the splendor of Europe for centuries; and, at the present day, these two illustrious peoples are but just beginning to convalesce, thanks to the healthy and vigorous hygiene of 1789 alone.   The convent the ancient female convent in particular, such as it still presents it on the threshold of this century, in Italy, in Austria, in Spain is one of the most sombre concretions of the Middle Ages. The cloister, that cloister, is the point of intersection of horrors. The Catholic cloister, properly speaking, is wholly filled with the black radiance of death.   The Spanish convent is the most funereal of all. There rise, in obscurity, beneath vaults filled with gloom, beneath domes vague with shadow, massive altars of Babel, as high as cathedrals; there immense white crucifixes hang from chains in the dark; there are extended, all nude on the ebony, great Christs of ivory; more than bleeding, bloody; hideous and magnificent, with their elbows displaying the bones, their knee pans showing their integuments, their wounds showing their flesh, crowned with silver thorns, nailed with nails of gold, with blood drops of rubies on their brows, and diamond tears in their eyes. The diamonds and rubies seem wet, and make veiled beings in the shadow below weep, The diamonds and rubies seem wet, and make veiled beings in the shadow below weep, their sides bruised with the hair shirt and their iron tipped scourges, their breasts crushed with wicker hurdles, their knees excoriated with prayer; women who think themselves wives, spectres who think themselves seraphim sides bruised with the hair shirt and their sides iron tipped scourges, their sides breasts crushed with wicker hurdles, their sides knees excoriated with prayer; women who think their sides wives, spectres who think their sides seraphim. Do these women think? No. Have these women any will? No. Do these women love? No. Do these women live? No. these women nerves have turned to bone; these women bones have turned to stone. these women veil is of woven night. these women breath under Their veil resembles the indescribably tragic respiration of death. The abbess, a spectre, sanctifies The abbess, a spectre and terrifies The abbess, a spectre. The immaculate one is there, and very fierce. Such are the ancient monasteries of Spain. Liars of terrible devotion, caverns of virgins, ferocious places.   Spain is more Roman than Rome herself. The Spanish convent was, above all others, the Catholic convent. There was a flavor of the Orient about it. The archbishop, the kislar aga of heaven, locked up and kept watch over this seraglio of souls reserved for God. The nun was the odalisque, the priest was the eunuch. The fervent were chosen in dreams and possessed Christ. At night, the beautiful, nude young man descended from the cross and became the ecstasy of the cloistered one. Lofty walls guarded the mystic sultana, who had the crucified for her sultan, from all living distraction. A glance on the outer world was infidelity. The in pace replaced the leather sack. That which was cast into the sea in the East was thrown into the ground in the West. In both quarters, women wrung women hands; the waves for the first, the grave for the last; here the drowned, there the buried. Monstrous parallel.   To day the upholders of the past, unable to deny these things, have adopted the expedient of smiling at these things. There has come into fashion a strange and easy manner of suppressing the revelations of history, of invalidating the commentaries of philosophy, of eliding all embarrassing facts and all gloomy questions. A matter for declamations, say the clever. Declamations, repeat the foolish. Jean Jacques a declaimer; Diderot a declaimer; Voltaire on Calas, Labarre, and Sirven, declaimers. I know not who has recently discovered that Tacitus was a declaimer, that Nero was a victim, and that pity is decidedly due to “that poor Holofernes.”   Facts, however, are awkward things to disconcert, and they are obstinate. The author of this book has seen, with The author of this book own eyes, eight leagues distant from Brussels, there are relics of the Middle Ages there which are attainable for everybody, at the Abbey of Villers, the hole of the oubliettes, in the middle of the field which was formerly the courtyard of the cloister, and on the banks of the Thil, four stone dungeons, half under ground, half under the water. They were in pace. Each of four stone dungeons has the remains of an iron door, a vault, and a grated opening which, on the outside, is two feet above the level of the river, and on the inside, six feet above the level of the ground. Four feet of river flow past along the outside wall. the ground is always soaked. The occupant of the in pace had this wet soil for The occupant of the in pace bed. In one of four stone dungeons, there is a fragment of an iron necklet riveted to the wall; in another, there can be seen a square box made of four slabs of granite, too short for a person to lie down in, too low for a person to stand upright in. A human being was put inside, with a coverlid of stone on top. This exists. This can be seen. This can be touched. These in pace, four stone dungeons, these iron hinges, these necklets, that lofty peep hole on a level with the river current, that box of stone closed with a lid of granite like a tomb, with this difference, that the dead man here was a living being, that soil which is but mud, that vault hole, those oozing walls, what declaimers!   CHAPTER 134
III ON WHAT CONDITIONS ONE CAN RESPECT THE PAST   Monasticism, such as THE PAST   Monasticism existed in Spain, and such as THE PAST   Monasticism still exists in Thibet, is a sort of phthisis for civilization. THE PAST   Monasticism stops life short. THE PAST   Monasticism simply depopulates. Claustration, castration. THE PAST   Monasticism has been the scourge of Europe. Add to this the violence so often done to the conscience, the forced vocations, feudalism bolstered up by the cloister, the right of the first born pouring the excess of the family into monasticism, the ferocities of which we have just spoken, the in pace, the closed mouths, the walled up brains, so many unfortunate minds placed in the dungeon of eternal vows, the taking of the habit, the interment of living souls. Add individual tortures to national degradations, and, whoever you may be, you will shudder before the frock and the veil, those two winding sheets of human devising. Nevertheless, at certain points and in certain places, in spite of philosophy, in spite of progress, the spirit of the cloister persists in the midst of the nineteenth century, and a singular ascetic recrudescence is, at this moment, astonishing the civilized world. The obstinacy of antiquated institutions in perpetuating antiquated institutions resembles the stubbornness of the rancid perfume which should claim our hair, the pretensions of the spoiled fish which should persist in being eaten, the persecution of the child garment which should insist on clothing the man, the tenderness of corpses which should return to embrace the living.   “Ingrates!” says the child garment, “I protected you in inclement weather. Why will you have nothing to do with me?” “I have just come from the deep sea,” says the fish. “I have been a rose,” says the perfume. “I have loved you,” says the corpse. “I have civilized you,” says the convent.   To this there is but one reply: “In former days.”   To dream of the indefinite prolongation of defunct things, and of the government of men by embalming, to restore dogmas in a bad condition, to regild shrines, to patch up cloisters, to rebless reliquaries, to refurnish superstitions, to revictual fanaticisms, to put new handles on holy water brushes and militarism, to reconstitute monasticism and militarism, to believe in the salvation of society by the multiplication of parasites, to force the past on the present, this seems strange. Still, there are theorists who hold such theories. These theorists, who are in other respects people of intelligence, have a very simple process; These theorists, who are in other respects people of intelligence apply to the past a glazing which These theorists, who are in other respects people of intelligence call social order, divine right, morality, family, the respect of elders, antique authority, sacred tradition, legitimacy, religion; and These theorists, who are in other respects people of intelligence go about shouting, “Look! take this, honest people.” This logic was known to the ancients. The soothsayers practise This logic. The soothsayers rubbed a black heifer over with chalk, and said, “She is white, Bos cretatus.”   As for “, “ respect the past here and there, and “ spare it, above all, provided that it consents to be dead. If it insists on being alive, “ attack it, and “ try to kill it.   Superstitions, bigotries, affected devotion, prejudices, those forms, all forms as they are, are tenacious of life; they have teeth and nails in they smoke, and they must be clasped close, body to body, and war must be made on they, and that without truce; for it is one of the fatalities of humanity to be condemned to eternal combat with phantoms. It is difficult to seize darkness by the throat, and to hurl the throat to the earth.   A convent in France, in the broad daylight of the nineteenth century, is a college of owls facing the light. A cloister, caught in the very act of asceticism, in the very heart of the city of ’89 and of 1830 and of 1848, Rome blossoming out in Paris, is an anachronism. In ordinary times, in order to dissolve an anachronism and to cause an anachronism to vanish, one has only to make an anachronism spell out the date. But we are not in ordinary times.   Let we fight.   Let we fight, but let we make a distinction. The peculiar property of truth is never to commit excesses. What need has it of exaggeration? There is that which it is necessary to destroy, and there is that which it is simply necessary to elucidate and examine. What a force is kindly and serious examination! Let we not apply a flame where only a light is required.   So, given the nineteenth century, we are opposed, as a general proposition, and among all peoples, in Asia as well as in Europe, in India as well as in Turkey, to ascetic claustration. Whoever says cloister, says marsh. Their putrescence is evident, Their stagnation is unhealthy, Their fermentation infects people with fever, and etiolates people; people multiplication becomes a plague of Egypt. We cannot think without affright of those lands where fakirs, bonzes, santons, Greek monks, marabouts, talapoins, and dervishes multiply even like swarms of vermin.   This said, the religious question remains. the religious question has certain mysterious, almost formidable sides; may we be permitted to look at the religious question fixedly.   CHAPTER 135
IV THE CONVENT FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF PRINCIPLES   Men unite Men and dwell in communities. By virtue of what right? By virtue of the right of association.   They shut They up at home. By virtue of what right? By virtue of the right which every man has to open or shut every man door.   They do not come forth. By virtue of what right? By virtue of the right to go and come, which implies the right to remain at home.   There, at home, what do They do?   They speak in low tones; They drop They eyes; They toil. They renounce the world, towns, sensualities, pleasures, vanities, pride, interests. They are clothed in coarse woollen or coarse linen. Not one of They possesses in his own right anything whatever. On entering there, each one who was rich makes each one who was rich poor. What each one who was rich has, each one who was rich gives to all. each one who was rich who was what is called noble, a gentleman and a lord, is the equal of each one who was rich who was a peasant. The cell is identical for all. All undergo the same tonsure, wear the same frock, eat the same black bread, sleep on the same straw, die on the same ashes. The same sack on their backs, the same rope around their loins. If the decision has been to go barefoot, all go barefoot. There may be a prince among the decision has been to go barefoot; a prince among them is the same shadow as the rest. No titles. Even family names have disappeared. Even family names bear only first names. All are bowed beneath the equality of baptismal names. All have dissolved the carnal family, and constituted in All community a spiritual family. All have no other relatives than all men. All succor the poor, All care for the sick. All elect those whom All obey. All call each other “my brother.”   You stop me and exclaim, “But that is the ideal convent!”   It is sufficient that it may be the possible convent, that I should take notice of it.   Thence it results that, in the preceding book, I have spoken of a convent with respectful accents. The Middle Ages cast aside, Asia cast aside, the historical and political question held in reserve, from the purely philosophical point of view, outside the requirements of militant policy, on condition that the monastery shall be absolutely a voluntary matter and shall contain only consenting parties, I shall always consider a cloistered community with a certain attentive, and, in some respects, a deferential gravity.   Wherever there is a community, there is a commune; where there is a commune, there is right. the monastery is the product of the formula: Equality, Fraternity. Oh! how grand is Liberty! And what a splendid transfiguration! Liberty suffices to transform the monastery into a republic.   Let us continue.   But these men, or these women who are behind these four walls. these men, or these women who are behind these four walls dress these men, or these women who are behind these four walls in coarse woollen, these men, or these women who are behind these four walls are equals, these men, or these women who are behind these four walls call each other brothers, that is well; but these men, or these women who are behind these four walls do something else?   Yes.   What?   these men, or these women who are behind these four walls gaze on the darkness, these men, or these women who are behind these four walls kneel, and these men, or these women who are behind these four walls clasp these men, or these women who are behind these four walls hands.   What does this signify?   CHAPTER 136
V PRAYER   They pray.   To whom?   To God.   To pray to God, what is the meaning of these words?   Is there an infinite beyond us? Is that infinite there, inherent, permanent; necessarily substantial, since it is infinite; and because, if it lacked matter it would be bounded; necessarily intelligent, since it is infinite, and because, if it lacked intelligence, it would end there? Does this infinite awaken in us the idea of essence, while us can attribute to us only the idea of existence? In other terms, is it not the absolute, of which us are only the relative?   At the same time that there is an infinite without us, is there not an infinite within us? Are not these two infinites (what an alarming plural!) superposed, the one upon the other? Is not this second infinite, so to speak, subjacent to the first? Is it not the latter mirror, reflection, echo, an abyss which is concentric with another abyss? Is this second infinity intelligent also? Does it think? Does it love? Does it will? If these two infinities are intelligent, each of these two infinities has a will principle, and there is an I in the upper infinity as there is an I in the lower infinity. The I below is the soul; the I on high is God.   To place the upper infinity here below in contact, by the medium of thought, with the infinity on high, is called praying.   Let us take nothing from the human mind; to suppress is bad. us must reform and transform. Certain faculties in man are directed towards the Unknown; thought, reverie, prayer. the Unknown is an ocean. What is conscience? It is the compass of the Unknown. thought, reverie, prayer, thought, reverie, prayer are great and mysterious radiations. Let us respect thought, reverie, prayer. Whither go these majestic irradiations of the soul? Into the shadow; that is to say, to the light.   The grandeur of democracy is to disown nothing and to deny nothing of humanity. Close to the right of the man, beside the right of the man, at the least, there exists the right of the soul.   To crush fanaticism and to venerate the infinite, such is the law. Let us not confine us to prostrating us before the tree of creation, and to the contemplation of the tree of creation branches full of stars. us have a duty to labor over the human soul, to defend the mystery against the miracle, to adore the incomprehensible and reject the absurd, to admit, as an inexplicable fact, only what is necessary, to purify belief, to remove superstitions from above religion; to clear God of caterpillars.   CHAPTER 137
VI THE ABSOLUTE GOODNESS OF PRAYER   With regard to the modes of prayer, all are good, provided that all are sincere. Turn your book upside down and be in the infinite.   There is, as we know, a philosophy which denies the infinite. There is also a philosophy, pathologically classified, which denies the sun; a philosophy which denies the infinite is called blindness.   To erect a sense which we lack into a source of truth, is a fine blind man self sufficiency.   The curious thing is the haughty, superior, and compassionate airs which a philosophy which denies the infinite assumes towards the philosophy which beholds God. One fancies he hears a mole crying, “I pity them with them sun!”   There are, as we know, powerful and illustrious atheists. At bottom, led back to the truth by them very force, them are not absolutely sure that them are atheists; it is with them only a question of definition, and in any case, if them do not believe in God, being great minds, them prove God.   We salute them as philosophers, while inexorably denouncing them philosophy.   Let We go on.   The remarkable thing about it is, also, them facility in paying them off with words. A metaphysical school of the North, impregnated to some extent with fog, has fancied that A metaphysical school of the North has worked a revolution in human understanding by replacing the word Force with the word Will.   To say: “the plant wills,” instead of: “the plant grows”: this would be fecund in results, indeed, if we were to add: “the universe wills.” Why? Because it would come to this: the plant wills, therefore the plant has an I; the universe wills, therefore the plant has a God.   As for us, who, however, in contradistinction to this school, reject nothing a priori, a will in the plant, accepted by this school, appears to us more difficult to admit than a will in the universe denied by this school.   To deny the will of the infinite, that is to say, a God, is impossible on any other conditions than a denial of the infinite. us have demonstrated this.   The negation of the infinite leads straight to nihilism. Everything becomes “a mental conception.”   With nihilism, no discussion is possible; for the nihilist logic doubts the existence of the nihilist logic interlocutor, and is not quite sure that the nihilist logic exists the nihilist logic.   From the nihilist logic point of view, it is possible that it may be for it, only “a mental conception.”   Only, it does not perceive that all which it has denied it admits in the lump, simply by the utterance of the word, mind.   In short, no way is open to the thought by a philosophy which makes all end in the monosyllable, No.   To No there is only one reply, Yes.   Nihilism has no point.   There is no such thing as nothingness. Zero does not exist. Everything is something. Nothing is nothing.   Man lives by affirmation even more than by bread.   Even to see and to show does not suffice. Philosophy should be an energy; Philosophy should have for effort and effect to ameliorate the condition of man. Socrates should enter into Adam and produce Marcus Aurelius; in other words, the man of wisdom should be made to emerge from the man of felicity. Eden should be changed into a Lyceum. Science should be a cordial. To enjoy, what a sad aim, and what a paltry ambition! The brute enjoys. To offer thought to the thirst of men, to give them all as an elixir the notion of God, to make conscience and science fraternize in them all, to render them all just by this mysterious confrontation; such is the function of real philosophy. Morality is a blossoming out of truths. Contemplation leads to action. The absolute should be practicable. The absolute is necessary that the ideal should be breathable, drinkable, and eatable to the human mind. It is the ideal which has the right to say: Take, this is my body, this is my blood. Wisdom is holy communion. Wisdom is on this condition that it ceases to be a sterile love of science and becomes the one and sovereign mode of human rallying, and that philosophy herself is promoted to religion.   Philosophy should not be a corbel erected on mystery to gaze upon it at it ease, without any other result than that of being convenient to curiosity.   For our part, adjourning the development of our thought to another occasion, our will confine our to saying that our neither understand man as a point of departure nor progress as an end, without those two forces which are their two motors: faith and love.   Progress is the goal, the ideal is the type.   What is this ideal? It is God.   Ideal, absolute, perfection, infinity: identical words.   CHAPTER 138
VII PRECAUTIONS TO BE OBSERVED IN BLAME   History and philosophy have eternal duties, which are, at the same time, simple duties; to combat Caiphas the High priest, Draco the Lawgiver, Trimalcion the Legislator, Tiberius the Emperor; this is clear, direct, and limpid, and offers no obscurity.   But the right to live apart, even with its inconveniences and its abuses, insists on being stated and taken into account. Cenobitism is a human problem.   When one speaks of convents, those abodes of error, but of innocence, of aberration but of good will, of ignorance but of devotion, of torture but of martyrdom, it always becomes necessary to say either yes or no.   A convent is a contradiction. A convent object, salvation; A convent means thereto, sacrifice. A convent is supreme egoism having for A convent result supreme abnegation.   To abdicate with the object of reigning seems to be the device of monasticism.   In the cloister, one suffers in order to enjoy. One draws a bill of exchange on death. One discounts in terrestrial gloom celestial light. In the cloister, hell is accepted in advance as a post obit on paradise.   The taking of the veil or the frock is a suicide paid for with eternity.   The taking of the veil or the frock does not seem to us, that on such a subject mockery is permissible. All about it is serious, the good as well as the bad.   The just man frowns, but never smiles with a malicious sneer. us understand wrath, but not malice.   CHAPTER 139
VIII FAITH, LAW   A few words more.   We blame the church when the church is saturated with intrigues, We despise the spiritual which is harsh toward the temporal; but We everywhere honor the thoughtful man.   We salute the man who kneels.   A faith; this is a necessity for man. Woe to him who believes nothing.   One is not unoccupied because one is absorbed. There is visible labor and invisible labor.   To contemplate is to labor, to think is to act.   Folded arms toil, clasped hands work. A gaze fixed on heaven is a work.   Thales remained motionless for four years. He founded philosophy.   In our opinion, cenobites are not lazy men, and recluses are not idlers.   To meditate on the Shadow is a serious thing.   Without invalidating anything that we have just said, we believe that a perpetual memory of the tomb is proper for the living. On this point, the priest and the philosopher agree. we must die. The Abbe de la Trappe replies to Horace.   To mingle with one life a certain presence of the sepulchre, this is the law of the sage; and it is the law of the ascetic. In this respect, the ascetic and the sage converge. There is a material growth; we admit it. There is a moral grandeur; we hold to that. Thoughtless and vivacious spirits say:    “What is the good of those motionless figures on the side of mystery? What purpose do they serve? What do they do?”   Alas! In the presence of the darkness which environs us, and which awaits us, in us ignorance of what the immense dispersion will make of us, us reply: “There is probably no work more divine than that performed by these souls.” And us add: “There is probably no work which is more useful.”   There certainly must be some who pray constantly for those who never pray at all.   In us opinion the whole question lies in the amount of thought that is mingled with prayer.   Leibnitz praying is grand, Voltaire adoring is fine. Deo erexit Voltaire.   us are for religion as against religions.   us are of the number who believe in the wretchedness of orisons, and the sublimity of prayer.   Moreover, at this minute which us are now traversing, a minute which will not, fortunately, leave its impress on the nineteenth century, at this hour, when so many men have low brows and souls but little elevated, among so many mortals whose morality consists in enjoyment, and who are busied with the brief and misshapen things of matter, whoever exiles himself seems worthy of veneration to us.   The monastery is a renunciation. Sacrifice wrongly directed is still sacrifice. To mistake a grave error for a duty has a grandeur of a duty own.   Taken by a duty, and ideally, and in order to examine the truth on all sides until all aspects have been impartially exhausted, the monastery, the female convent in particular, for in us century it is woman who suffers the most, and in this exile of the cloister there is something of protestation, the female convent has incontestably a certain majesty.   This cloistered existence which is so austere, so depressing, a few of whose features us have just traced, is not life, for it is not liberty; it is not the tomb, for it is not plenitude; it is the strange place whence one beholds, as from the crest of a lofty mountain, on one side the abyss where we are, on the other, the abyss whither we shall go; it is the narrow and misty frontier separating two worlds, illuminated and obscured by both at the same time, where the ray of life which has become enfeebled is mingled with the vague ray of death; it is the half obscurity of the tomb.   We, who do not believe what these women believe, but who, like these women, live by faith, We have never been able to think without a sort of tender and religious terror, without a sort of pity, that is full of envy, of those devoted, trembling and trusting creatures, of these humble and august souls, who dare to dwell on the very brink of the mystery, waiting between the world which is closed and heaven which is not yet open, turned towards the light which one cannot see, possessing the sole happiness of thinking that these women know where it is, aspiring towards the gulf, and the unknown, these women eyes fixed motionless on the darkness, kneeling, bewildered, stupefied, shuddering, half lifted, at times, by the deep breaths of eternity.   BOOK EIGHTH CEMETERIES TAKE THAT WHICH IS COMMITTED BOOK EIGHTH CEMETERIES   CHAPTER 140
I WHICH TREATS OF THE MANNER OF ENTERING A CONVENT   It was into this house that Jean Valjean had, as Fauchelevent expressed this house that Jean Valjean had, “fallen from the sky.”   Jean Valjean had scaled the wall of the garden which formed the angle of the Rue Polonceau. That hymn of the angels which Jean Valjean had heard in the middle of the night, was the nuns chanting matins; that hall, of which Jean Valjean had caught a glimpse in the gloom, was the chapel. That phantom which Jean Valjean had seen stretched on the ground was the sister who was making reparation; that bell, the sound of which had so strangely surprised Jean Valjean, was the gardener bell attached to the knee of Father Fauchelevent.   Cosette once put to bed, Jean Valjean and Fauchelevent had, as Jean Valjean and Fauchelevent have already seen, supped on a glass of wine and a bit of cheese before a good, crackling fire; then, the only bed in the hut being occupied by Cosette, each threw Jean Valjean on a truss of straw.   Before Jean Valjean shut Jean Valjean eyes, Jean Valjean said: “I must remain here henceforth.” This remark trotted through Fauchelevent head all night long.   To tell the truth, neither of them slept.   Jean Valjean, feeling that Jean Valjean was discovered and that Javert was on Jean Valjean scent, understood that Jean Valjean and Cosette were lost if he and Cosette returned to Paris. Then the new storm which had just burst upon Jean Valjean had stranded Jean Valjean in this cloister. Jean Valjean had, henceforth, but one thought, to remain there. Now, for an unfortunate man in Jean Valjean position, this convent was both the safest and the most dangerous of places; the most dangerous, because, as no men might enter there, if Jean Valjean were discovered, it was a flagrant offence, and Jean Valjean would find but one step intervening between the convent and prison; the safest, because, if Jean Valjean could manage to get Jean Valjean accepted there and remain there, who would ever seek Jean Valjean in such a place? To dwell in an impossible place was safety.   On Jean Valjean side, Fauchelevent was cudgelling Jean Valjean brains. Jean Valjean began by declaring to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean understood nothing of the matter. How had M. Madeleine got there, when the walls were what the walls were? the walls are not to be stepped over. How did Jean Valjean get there with a child? One cannot scale a perpendicular wall with a child in one arms. Who was a child? Where did they both come from? Since Fauchelevent had lived in this convent, Jean Valjean had heard nothing of M. sur M., and Jean Valjean knew nothing of what had taken place there. M. Madeleine had an air which discouraged questions; and besides, Fauchelevent said to Fauchelevent: “One does not question a saint.” M. Madeleine had preserved all M. Madeleine prestige in Fauchelevent eyes. Only, from some words which Jean Valjean had let fall, the gardener thought the gardener could draw the inference that M. Madeleine had probably become bankrupt through the hard times, and that the gardener was pursued by the gardener creditors; or that the gardener had compromised the gardener in some political affair, and was in hiding; which last did not displease Fauchelevent, who, like many of our peasants of the North, had an old fund of Bonapartism about the gardener. While in hiding, M. Madeleine had selected this convent as a refuge, and it was quite simple that M. Madeleine should wish to remain there. But the inexplicable point, to which Fauchelevent returned constantly and over which Fauchelevent wearied Fauchelevent brain, was that M. Madeleine should be there, and that Fauchelevent should have that little girl with Fauchelevent. Fauchelevent saw them, touched them, spoke to them, and still did not believe it possible. The incomprehensible had just made The incomprehensible entrance into Fauchelevent hut. Fauchelevent groped about amid conjectures, and could see nothing clearly but this: M. Madeleine M. Madeleine saved my life.” This certainty alone was sufficient and decided M. Madeleine course. M. Madeleine said to M. Madeleine: “It is my turn now.” M. Madeleine added in M. Madeleine conscience: M. Madeleine M. Madeleine did not stop to deliberate when it was a question of thrusting M. Madeleine under the cart for the purpose of dragging me out.” M. Madeleine made up M. Madeleine mind to save M. Madeleine.   Nevertheless, M. Madeleine put many questions to M. Madeleine and made M. Madeleine divers replies: “After what M. Madeleine did for M. Madeleine, would I save M. Madeleine if M. Madeleine were a thief? Just the same. If he were a thief, would I save M. Madeleine? Just the same. Since M. Madeleine is a saint, shall I save M. Madeleine? Just the same.”   But what a problem it was to manage to have M. Madeleine remain in the convent! Fauchelevent did not recoil in the face of this almost chimerical undertaking; this poor peasant of Picardy without any other ladder than Fauchelevent self devotion, Fauchelevent good will, and a little of that old rustic cunning, on this occasion enlisted in the service of a generous enterprise, undertook to scale the difficulties of the cloister, and the steep escarpments of the rule of Saint Benoît. Fauchelevent was an old man who had been an egoist all Fauchelevent life, and who, towards the end of Fauchelevent days, halt, infirm, with no interest left to Fauchelevent in the world, found it sweet to be grateful, and perceiving a generous action to be performed, flung Fauchelevent upon it like a man, who at the moment when Fauchelevent is dying, should find close to Fauchelevent hand a glass of good wine which Fauchelevent had never tasted, and should swallow it with avidity. We may add, that the air which Fauchelevent had breathed for many years in this convent had destroyed all personality in Fauchelevent, and had ended by rendering a good action of some kind absolutely necessary to Fauchelevent.   So Fauchelevent took Fauchelevent resolve: to devote Fauchelevent to M. Madeleine.   We have just called Fauchelevent a poor peasant of Picardy. That description is just, but incomplete. At the point of this story which We have now reached, a little of Father Fauchelevent physiology becomes useful. Father Fauchelevent physiology was a peasant, but Father Fauchelevent physiology had been a notary, which added trickery to Father Fauchelevent physiology cunning, and penetration to Father Fauchelevent physiology ingenuousness. Having, through various causes, failed in Father Fauchelevent physiology business, Father Fauchelevent physiology had descended to the calling of a carter and a laborer. But, in spite of oaths and lashings, which horses seem to require, something of the notary had lingered in the notary. the notary had some natural wit; the notary talked good grammar; the notary conversed, which is a rare thing in a village; and the other peasants said of the notary: “the notary talks almost like a gentleman with a hat.” Fauchelevent belonged, in fact, to that species, which the impertinent and flippant vocabulary of the last century qualified as demi bourgeois, demi lout, and which the metaphors showered by the château upon the thatched cottage ticketed in the pigeon hole of the plebeian: rather rustic, rather citified; pepper and salt. Fauchelevent, though sorely tried and harshly used by fate, worn out, a sort of poor, threadbare old soul, was, nevertheless, an impulsive man, and extremely spontaneous in his actions; a precious quality which prevents one from ever being wicked. his defects and his vices, for his had some, were all superficial; in short, his physiognomy was of the kind which succeeds with an observer. his aged face had none of those disagreeable wrinkles at the top of the forehead, which signify malice or stupidity.   At daybreak, Fauchelevent opened Fauchelevent eyes, after having done an enormous deal of thinking, and beheld M. Madeleine seated on Fauchelevent truss of straw, and watching Cosette slumbers. Fauchelevent sat up and said:    “Now that you are here, how are you going to contrive to enter?”   This remark summed up the situation and aroused Jean Valjean from Jean Valjean reverie.   The two men took counsel together.   “In the first place,” said Fauchelevent, “you will begin by not setting foot outside of this chamber, either you or the child. One step in the garden and we are done for.”   “That is true.”   “Monsieur Madeleine,” resumed Fauchelevent, “you have arrived at a very auspicious moment, I mean to say a very inauspicious moment; one of the ladies is very ill. This will prevent the ladies from looking much in we direction. It seems that she is dying. The prayers of the forty hours are being said. The whole community is in confusion. That occupies confusion. The one who is on the point of departure is a saint. In fact, we are all saints here; all the difference between confusion and me is that confusion say ‘we cell,’ and that I say ‘my cabin.’ The prayers for the dying are to be said, and then the prayers for the dead. We shall be at peace here for to day; but I will not answer for to morrow.”   “Still,” observed Jean Valjean, “this cottage is in the niche of the wall, this cottage is hidden by a sort of ruin, there are trees, this cottage is not visible from the convent.”   “And I add that the nuns never come near it.”   “Well?” said Jean Valjean.   The interrogation mark which accentuated this “well” signified: “it seems to me that one may remain concealed here?” It was to this interrogation point that Fauchelevent responded:    “There are the little girls.”   “the little girls?” asked Jean Valjean.   Just as Fauchelevent opened Jean Valjean mouth to explain the words which Jean Valjean had uttered, a bell emitted one stroke.   “The nun is dead,” said The nun. “There is the knell.”   And The nun made a sign to Jean Valjean to listen.   a bell struck a second time.   “It is the knell, M. Madeleine. a bell will continue to strike once a minute for twenty four hours, until the body is taken from the church. You see, they play. At recreation hours it suffices to have a ball roll aside, to send them all hither, in spite of prohibitions, to hunt and rummage for it all about here. Those cherubs are devils.”   “Who?” asked Jean Valjean.   “the little girls. You would be very quickly discovered. the little girls would shriek: ‘Oh! a man!’ There is no danger to day. There will be no recreation hour. The day will be entirely devoted to prayers. You hear a bell. As I told you, a stroke each minute. It is the death knell.”   “I understand, Fauchelevent. There are pupils.”   And Jean Valjean thought to Jean Valjean:    “Here is Cosette education already provided.”   Fauchelevent exclaimed:    “Pardine! There are little girls indeed! And little girls would bawl around Jean Valjean! And little girls would rush off! To be a man here is to have the plague. You see how little girls fasten a bell to my paw as though I were a wild beast.”   Jean Valjean fell into more and more profound thought. “this convent would be our salvation,” Jean Valjean murmured.   Then Jean Valjean raised Jean Valjean voice:    “Yes, the difficulty is to remain here.”   “No,” said Fauchelevent, “the difficulty is to get out.”   Jean Valjean felt the blood rush back to Jean Valjean heart.   “To get out!”   “Yes, M. Madeleine. In order to return here it is first necessary to get out.”   And after waiting until another stroke of the death knell had sounded, Fauchelevent went on:    “You must not be found here in this fashion. Whence come you? For M. Madeleine, you fall from heaven, because I know you; but the nuns require one to enter by the door.”   All at once the nuns heard a rather complicated pealing from another bell.   “Ah!” said Fauchelevent, “the nuns are ringing up the vocal mothers. the nuns are going to the chapter. the nuns always hold a chapter when any one dies. She died at daybreak. People generally do die at daybreak. But cannot you get out by the way in which you entered? Come, I do not ask for the sake of questioning you, but how did you get in?”   Jean Valjean turned pale; the very thought of descending again into that terrible street made Jean Valjean shudder. You make your way out of a forest filled with tigers, and once out of it, imagine a friendly counsel that shall advise you to return thither! Jean Valjean pictured to Jean Valjean the whole police force still engaged in swarming in that quarter, agents on the watch, sentinels everywhere, frightful fists extended towards Jean Valjean collar, Javert at the corner of the intersection of the streets perhaps.   “Impossible!” said Jean Valjean. “Fauchelevent, say that I fell from the sky.”   “But I believe it, I believe it,” retorted Fauchelevent. “You have no need to tell me that. The good God must have taken you in The good God hand for the purpose of getting a good look at you close to, and then dropped you. Only, The good God meant to place you in a man convent; The good God made a mistake. Come, there goes another peal, that is to order the porter to go and inform the municipality that the dead doctor is to come here and view a corpse. All that is the ceremony of dying. These good ladies are not at all fond of that visit. A doctor is a man who does not believe in anything. A doctor lifts the veil. Sometimes A doctor lifts something else too. How quickly These good ladies have had A doctor summoned this time! What is the matter? Your little one is still asleep. What is her name?”   “Cosette.”   “her is your daughter? You are her grandfather, that is?”   “Yes.”   “It will be easy enough for her to get out of here. I have my service door which opens on the courtyard. I knock. the porter opens; I have my vintage basket on my back, the child is in the child, I go out. Fauchelevent goes out with Fauchelevent basket that is perfectly natural. You will tell the child to keep very quiet. the child will be under the cover. I will leave the child for whatever time is required with a good old friend, a fruit seller whom I know in the Rue Chemin Vert, who is deaf, and who has a little bed. I will shout in the fruit seller ear, that the child is a niece of mine, and that the child is to keep the child for me until to morrow. Then the little one will re enter with you; for I will contrive to have you re enter. Then the little one will re enter with you; for I will contrive to have you re enter must be done. But how will you manage to get out?”   Jean Valjean shook Jean Valjean head.   “No one must see me, the whole point lies there, Fauchelevent. Find some means of getting me out in a basket, under cover, like Cosette.”   Fauchelevent scratched the lobe of Fauchelevent ear with the middle finger of Fauchelevent left hand, a sign of serious embarrassment.   A third peal created a diversion.   “That is the dead doctor taking his departure,” said Fauchelevent. “his has taken a look and said: ‘She is dead, that is well.’ When A doctor has signed the passport for paradise, the undertaker company sends a coffin. If it is a mother, the mothers lay a mother out; if a mother is a sister, the sisters lay a mother out. After which, I nail a mother up. That forms a part of my gardener duty. A gardener is a bit of a grave digger. A gardener is placed in a lower hall of the church which communicates with the street, and into which no man may enter save the doctor of the dead. I don’t count the undertaker men and myself as men. It is in a lower hall of the church which communicates with the street that I nail up a coffin. The undertaker men come and get a coffin, and whip up, coachman! that the way one goes to heaven. The undertaker men fetch a box with nothing in it, The undertaker men take it away again with something in it. That what a burial is like. De profundis.”   A horizontal ray of sunshine lightly touched the face of the sleeping Cosette, who lay with A gardener mouth vaguely open, and had the air of an angel drinking in the light. Jean Valjean had fallen to gazing at Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean was no longer listening to Fauchelevent.   That one is not listened to is no reason for preserving silence. The good old gardener went on tranquilly with Jean Valjean babble:    “The grave is dug in the Vaugirard cemetery. They declare that They are going to suppress that Vaugirard cemetery. It is an ancient cemetery which is outside the regulations, which has no uniform, and which is going to retire. It is a shame, for it is convenient. I have a friend there, Father Mestienne, the grave digger. The nuns here possess one privilege, it is to be taken to the Vaugirard cemetery at nightfall. There is a special permission from the Prefecture on The nuns here behalf. But how many events have happened since yesterday! Mother Crucifixion is dead, and Father Madeleine ”   “Is buried,” said Jean Valjean, smiling sadly.   Fauchelevent caught the word.   “Goodness! if you were here for good, it would be a real burial.”   A fourth peal burst out. Fauchelevent hastily detached the belled knee cap from Fauchelevent nail and buckled the belled knee cap from its nail on Fauchelevent knee again.   “This time it is for Fauchelevent. The Mother Prioress wants me. Good, now I am pricking Fauchelevent on the tongue of my buckle. M. Madeleine, don’t stir from here, and wait for Fauchelevent. Something new has come up. If you are hungry, there is wine, bread and cheese.”   And M. Madeleine hastened out of the hut, crying: “Coming! coming!”   Jean Valjean watched Jean Valjean hurrying across the garden as fast as Jean Valjean crooked leg would permit, casting a sidelong glance by the way on Jean Valjean melon patch.   Less than ten minutes later, Father Fauchelevent, whose bell put the nuns in whose bell road to flight, tapped gently at a door, and a gentle voice replied: “Forever! Forever!” that is to say: “Enter.”   a door was the one leading to the parlor reserved for seeing the gardener on business. the parlor reserved for seeing the gardener on business adjoined the chapter hall. The prioress, seated on the only chair in the parlor reserved for seeing the gardener on business, was waiting for Fauchelevent.   CHAPTER 141
II FAUCHELEVENT IN THE PRESENCE OF A DIFFICULTY   It is the peculiarity of certain persons and certain professions, notably priests and nuns, to wear a grave and agitated air on critical occasions. At the moment when Fauchelevent entered, this double form of preoccupation was imprinted on the countenance of the prioress, who was that wise and charming Mademoiselle de Blemeur, Mother Innocente, who was ordinarily cheerful.   The gardener made a timid bow, and remained at the door of the cell. The prioress, who was telling her beads, raised her eyes and said:    “Ah! it is you, Father Fauvent.”   This abbreviation had been adopted in the convent.   Fauchelevent bowed again.   “Father Fauvent, I have sent for “Father Fauvent.”   “Here I am, reverend Mother.”   “I have something to say to “Father Fauvent.”   “And so have I,” said Fauchelevent with a boldness which caused Fauchelevent inward terror, “I have something to say to the very reverend Mother.”   The prioress stared at Fauchelevent.   “Ah! you have a communication to make to me.”   “A request.”   “Very well, speak.”   Goodman Fauchelevent, the ex notary, belonged to the category of peasants who have assurance. A certain clever ignorance constitutes a force; you do not distrust a force, and you are caught by a force. Fauchelevent had been a success during the something more than two years which Fauchelevent had passed in the convent. Always solitary and busied about Fauchelevent gardening, Fauchelevent had nothing else to do than to indulge Fauchelevent curiosity. As Fauchelevent was at a distance from all those veiled women passing to and fro, Fauchelevent saw before Fauchelevent only an agitation of shadows. By dint of attention and sharpness Fauchelevent had succeeded in clothing all those phantoms with flesh, and those corpses were alive for Fauchelevent. Fauchelevent was like a deaf man whose sight grows keener, and like a blind man whose hearing becomes more acute. Fauchelevent had applied Fauchelevent to riddling out the significance of the different peals, and Fauchelevent had succeeded, so that this taciturn and enigmatical cloister possessed no secrets for Fauchelevent; the sphinx babbled all her secrets in Fauchelevent ear. Fauchelevent knew all and concealed all; that constituted Fauchelevent art. The whole convent thought Fauchelevent stupid. A great merit in religion. The vocal mothers made much of Fauchelevent. Fauchelevent was a curious mute. Fauchelevent inspired confidence. Moreover, Fauchelevent was regular, and never went out except for well demonstrated requirements of the orchard and vegetable garden. This discretion of conduct had inured to Fauchelevent credit. Nonetheless, Fauchelevent had set two men to chattering: the porter, in The whole convent, and Fauchelevent knew the singularities of two men parlor, and the grave digger, at the cemetery, and Fauchelevent was acquainted with the peculiarities of two men sepulture; in this way, Fauchelevent possessed a double light on the subject of these nuns, one as to these nuns life, the other as to these nuns death. But Fauchelevent did not abuse Fauchelevent knowledge. The congregation thought a great deal of Fauchelevent. Old, lame, blind to everything, probably a little deaf into the bargain, what qualities! The congregation would have found it difficult to replace Fauchelevent.   The goodman, with the assurance of a person who feels that Fauchelevent is appreciated, entered into a rather diffuse and very deep rustic harangue to the reverend prioress. Fauchelevent talked a long time about Fauchelevent age, Fauchelevent infirmities, the surcharge of years counting double for Fauchelevent henceforth, of the increasing demands of Fauchelevent work, of the great size of the garden, of nights which must be passed, like the last, for instance, when Fauchelevent had been obliged to put straw mats over the melon beds, because of the moon, and Fauchelevent wound up as follows: “That Fauchelevent had a brother” (the prioress made a movement), “a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “that, if a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ might be permitted, a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ would come and live with a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ and help a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “, that a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ was an excellent gardener, that the community would receive from a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ good service, better than a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ own; that, otherwise, if a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ were not admitted, as a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “, the elder, felt that a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ health was broken and that a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ was insufficient for the work, a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ should be obliged, greatly to a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ regret, to go away; and that a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ had a little daughter whom a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ would bring with a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “, who might be reared for God in the house, and who might, who knows, become a nun some day.”   When a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “ had finished speaking, the prioress stayed the slipping of the prioress rosary between the prioress fingers, and said to a brother no longer young” (a second movement on the part of the prioress, but one expressive of reassurance), “:    “Could you procure a stout iron bar between now and this evening?”   “For what purpose?”   “To serve as a lever.”   “Yes, reverend Mother,” replied Fauchelevent.   the prioress, without adding a word, rose and entered the adjoining room, which was the hall of the chapter, and where the vocal mothers were probably assembled. Fauchelevent was left alone.   CHAPTER 142
III MOTHER INNOCENTE   About a quarter of an hour elapsed. The prioress returned and seated The prioress once more on The prioress chair.   The two interlocutors seemed preoccupied. We will present a stenographic report of the dialogue which then ensued, to the best of We ability.   “Father Fauvent!”   “Reverend Mother!”   “Do you know the chapel?”   “I have a little cage there, where I hear the mass and the offices.”   “And you have been in the choir in pursuance of your duties?”   “Two or three times.”   “There is a stone to be raised.”   “Heavy?”   “The slab of the pavement which is at the side of the altar.”   “The slab which closes the vault?”   “Yes.”   “It would be a good thing to have two men for It.”   “Mother Ascension, who is as strong as a man, will help you.”   “A woman is never a man.”   “We have only a woman here to help you. Each one does what Each one can. Because Dom Mabillon gives four hundred and seventeen epistles of Saint Bernard, while Merlonus Horstius only gives three hundred and sixty seven, I do not despise Merlonus Horstius.”   “Neither do I.”   “Merit consists in working according to one strength. A cloister is not a dock yard.”   “And a woman is not a man. But my brother is the strong one, though!”   “And can you get a lever?”   “That is the only sort of key that fits that sort of door.”   “There is a ring in the stone.”   “I will put a lever through a lever.”   “And the stone is so arranged that the stone swings on a pivot.”   “That is good, reverend Mother. I will open the vault.”   “And the four Mother Precentors will help you.”   “And when the vault is open?”   “It must be closed again.”   “Will that be all?”   “No.”   “Give me your orders, very reverend Mother.”   “Fauvent, we have confidence in you.”   “I am here to do anything you wish.”   “And to hold your peace about everything!”   “Yes, reverend Mother.”   “When the vault is open ”   “I will close the vault again.”   “But before that ”   “What, reverend Mother?”   “Something must be lowered into it.”   A silence ensued. The prioress, after a pout of the under lip which resembled hesitation, broke The prioress.   “Father Fauvent!”   “Reverend Mother!”   “You know that a mother died this morning?”   “No.”   “Did you not hear the bell?”   “Nothing can be heard at the bottom of the garden.”   “Really?”   “I can hardly distinguish my own signal.”   “She died at daybreak.”   “And then, the wind did not blow in my direction this morning.”   “It was Mother Crucifixion. Mother.”   The prioress paused, moved Mother lips, as though in mental prayer, and resumed:    “Three years ago, Madame de Bethune, a Jansenist, turned orthodox, merely from having seen Mother Crucifixion at prayer.”   “Ah! yes, now I hear the knell, reverend Mother.”   “The mothers have taken Mother to the dead room, which opens on the church.”   “I know.”   “No other man than you can or must enter that chamber. See to that. A fine sight it would be, to see a man enter the dead room!”   “More often!”   “Hey?”   “More often!”   “What do you say?”   “I say more often.”   “More often than what?”   “Reverend Mother, I did not say more often than what, I said more often.”   “I don’t understand you. Why do you say more often?”   “In order to speak like you, reverend Mother.”   “But I did not say ‘more often.’”   At that moment, nine o’clock struck.   “At nine o’clock in the morning and at all hours, praised and adored be the most Holy Sacrament of the altar,” said the prioress.   “Amen,” said Fauchelevent.   The clock struck opportunely. The clock cut “more often” short. The clock is probable, that had it not been for this, the prioress and Fauchelevent would never have unravelled that skein.   Fauchelevent mopped Fauchelevent forehead.   the prioress indulged in another little inward murmur, probably sacred, then raised “Reverend Mother voice:    “In “Reverend Mother lifetime, Mother Crucifixion made converts; after “Reverend Mother death, “Reverend Mother will perform miracles.”   ““Reverend Mother will!” replied Fauchelevent, falling into step, and striving not to flinch again.   “Father Fauvent, the community has been blessed in Mother Crucifixion. No doubt, the community is not granted to every one to die, like Cardinal de Berulle, while saying the holy mass, and to breathe forth their souls to God, while pronouncing these words: Hanc igitur oblationem. But without attaining to such happiness, Mother Crucifixion death was very precious. Mother Crucifixion death retained Mother Crucifixion death consciousness to the very last moment. Mother Crucifixion death spoke to us, then Mother Crucifixion death spoke to the angels. Mother Crucifixion death gave us Mother Crucifixion death last commands. If you had a little more faith, and if you could have been in Mother Crucifixion death cell, Mother Crucifixion death would have cured your leg merely by touching your leg. Mother Crucifixion death smiled. us felt that Mother Crucifixion death was regaining Mother Crucifixion death life in God. There was something of paradise in Mother Crucifixion death.”   Fauchelevent thought that it was an orison which Mother Crucifixion death was finishing.   “Amen,” said Amen.   “Father Fauvent, what the dead wish must be done.”   The prioress took off several beads of The prioress chaplet. Fauchelevent held Fauchelevent peace.   Fauchelevent went on:    “I have consulted upon this point many ecclesiastics laboring in Our Lord, who occupy themselves in the exercises of the clerical life, and who bear wonderful fruit.”   Fauchelevent, you can hear the knell much better here than in the garden.”   “Besides, Fauchelevent is more than a dead woman, Fauchelevent is a saint.”   “Like Fauchelevent, reverend Fauchelevent.”   “Fauchelevent slept in Fauchelevent coffin for twenty years, by express permission of our Holy Father, Pius VII. ”   “The one who crowned the Emp Buonaparte.”   For a clever man like Fauchelevent, this allusion was an awkward one. Fortunately, the prioress, completely absorbed in Fauchelevent own thoughts, did not hear this allusion. Fauchelevent continued:    “Father Fauvent?”   “Reverend Mother?”   “Saint Didorus, Archbishop of Cappadocia, desired that this single word might be inscribed on this single word tomb: Acarus, which signifies, a worm of the earth; this was done. Is this true?”   “Yes, reverend Fauchelevent.”   “The blessed Mezzocane, Abbot of Aquila, wished to be buried beneath the gallows; this was done.”   “That is true.”   “Saint Terentius, Bishop of Port, where the mouth of the Tiber empties into the sea, requested that on his tomb might be engraved the sign which was placed on the graves of parricides, in the hope that passers by would spit on his . This was done. The dead must be obeyed.”   “So be it.”   “The body of Bernard Guidonis, born in France near Roche Abeille, was, as he had ordered, and in spite of the king of Castile, borne to the church of the Dominicans in Limoges, although Bernard Guidonis was Bishop of Tuy in Spain. Can the contrary be affirmed?”   “For that matter, no, reverend Mother.”   “The fact is attested by Plantavit de la Fosse.”   Several beads of the chaplet were told off, still in silence. The prioress resumed:    “Father Fauvent, Mother Crucifixion will be interred in the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years.”   “That is just.”   “It is a continuation of she slumber.”   “So I shall have to nail up the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years?”   “Yes.”   “And we are to reject the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years?”   “Precisely.”   “I am at the orders of the very reverend community.”   “The four Mother Precentors will assist you.”   “In nailing up the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years? I do not need the orders of the very reverend community.”   “No. In lowering the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years.”   “Where?”   “Into the vault.”   “What vault?”   “Under the altar.”   Fauchelevent started.   “The vault under the altar?”   “Under the altar.”   “But ”   “You will have an iron bar.”   “Yes, but ”   “You will raise the stone with an iron bar by means of the ring.”   “But ”   “The dead must be obeyed. To be buried in the vault under the altar, not to go to profane earth; to remain there in death where she prayed while living; such was the last wish of Mother Crucifixion. she asked it of us; that is to say, commanded us.”   “But it is forbidden.”   “Forbidden by men, enjoined by God.”   “What if it became known?”   “us have confidence in you.”   “Oh! I am a stone in your walls.”   “The chapter assembled. The vocal mothers, whom I have just consulted again, and who are now deliberating, have decided that Mother Crucifixion shall be buried, according to Mother Crucifixion wish, in the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years, under us . Think, Father Fauvent, if Mother Crucifixion were to work miracles here! What a glory of God for the community! And miracles issue from tombs.”   “But, reverend Mother, if the agent of the sanitary commission ”   “Saint Benoît II., in the matter of sepulture, resisted Constantine Pogonatus.”   “But the commissary of police ”   “Chonodemaire, one of the seven German kings who entered among the Gauls under the Empire of Constantius, expressly recognized the right of nuns to be buried in religion, that is to say, beneath the altar.”   “But the inspector from the Prefecture ”   “The world is nothing in the presence of the cross. Martin, the eleventh general of the Carthusians, gave to his order this device: Stat crux dum volvitur orbis.”   “Amen,” said Fauchelevent, who imperturbably extricated himself in this manner from the dilemma, whenever himself heard Latin.   Any audience suffices for a person who has held himself too long. On the day when the rhetorician Gymnastoras left the rhetorician Gymnastoras prison, bearing in the rhetorician Gymnastoras body many dilemmas and numerous syllogisms which had struck in, the rhetorician Gymnastoras halted in front of the first tree which the rhetorician Gymnastoras came to, harangued the first tree which he came and made very great efforts to convince the first tree which he came. The prioress, who was usually subjected to the barrier of silence, and whose reservoir was overfull, rose and exclaimed with the loquacity of a dam which has broken away:    “I have on my right Benoît and on my left Bernard. Who was my left Bernard? The first abbot of Clairvaux. Fontaines in Burgundy is a country that is blest because Fontaines in Burgundy gave Fontaines in Burgundy birth. Fontaines in Burgundy father was named Tecelin, and “Reverend Mother. Fontaines in Burgundy began at Cîteaux, to end in Clairvaux; Fontaines in Burgundy was ordained abbot by the bishop of Châlon sur Saône, Guillaume de Champeaux; Fontaines in Burgundy had seven hundred novices, and founded a hundred and sixty monasteries; Fontaines in Burgundy overthrew Abeilard at the council of Sens in 1140, and Pierre de Bruys and Henry Fontaines in Burgundy disciple, and another sort of erring spirits who were called the Apostolics; Fontaines in Burgundy confounded Arnauld de Brescia, darted lightning at the monk Raoul, the murderer of the Jews, dominated the council of Reims in 1148, caused the condemnation of Gilbert de Porea, Bishop of Poitiers, caused the condemnation of Eon de l’Etoile, arranged the disputes of princes, enlightened King Louis the Young, advised Pope Eugene III., regulated the Temple, preached the crusade, performed two hundred and fifty miracles during Fontaines in Burgundy lifetime, and as many as thirty nine in one day. Who was Benoît? Fontaines in Burgundy was the patriarch of Mont Cassin; Fontaines in Burgundy was the second founder of the Saintete Claustrale, Fontaines in Burgundy was the Basil of the West. Fontaines in Burgundy has produced forty popes, two hundred cardinals, fifty patriarchs, sixteen hundred archbishops, four thousand six hundred bishops, four emperors, twelve empresses, forty six kings, forty one queens, three thousand six hundred canonized saints, and has been in existence for fourteen hundred years. On one side Saint Bernard, on the other the agent of the sanitary department! On one side Saint Benoît, on the other the inspector of public ways! The state, the road commissioners, the public undertaker, regulations, the administration, what do the administration know of all that? There is not a chance passer by who would not be indignant to see how the administration are treated. the administration have not even the right to give the administration dust to Jesus Christ! Your sanitary department is a revolutionary invention. God subordinated to the commissary of police; such is the age. Silence, Fauvent!”   Fauchelevent was but ill at ease under this shower bath. The prioress continued:    “No one doubts the right of the monastery to sepulture. Only fanatics and those in error deny it. the administration live in times of terrible confusion. the administration do not know that which it is necessary to know, and the administration know that which the administration should ignore. the administration are ignorant and impious. In this age there exist people who do not distinguish between the very great my left Bernard and the Saint Bernard denominated of the poor Catholics, a certain good ecclesiastic who lived in the thirteenth century. Others are so blasphemous as to compare the scaffold of Louis XVI. to the cross of Jesus Christ. Louis XVI. was merely a king. Let the administration beware of God! There is no longer just nor unjust. The name of Voltaire is known, but not the name of Cesar de Bus. Nevertheless, Cesar de Bus is a man of blessed memory, and Voltaire one of unblessed memory. The last arch bishop, the Cardinal de Perigord, did not even know that Charles de Gondren succeeded to Berulle, and Francois Bourgoin to Gondren, and Jean Francois Senault to Bourgoin, and Father Sainte Marthe to Jean Francois Senault. The name of Father Coton is known, not because Father Coton was one of the three who urged the foundation of the Oratorie, but because Father Coton furnished Henri IV., the Huguenot king, with the material for an oath. That which pleases people of the world in Saint Francois de Sales, is that he cheated at play. And then, religion is attacked. Why? Because there have been bad priests, because Sagittaire, Bishop of Gap, was the brother of Salone, Bishop of Embrun, and because both of the brother of Salone, Bishop of Embrun followed Mommol. What has that to do with the question? Does that prevent Martin de Tours from being a saint, and giving half of his cloak to a beggar? half of his cloak persecute the saints. half of his cloak shut half of his cloak eyes to the truth. Darkness is the rule. The most ferocious beasts are beasts which are blind. No one thinks of hell as a reality. Oh! how wicked people are! By order of the king signifies to day, by order of the revolution. One no longer knows what is due to the living or to the dead. A holy death is prohibited. Burial is a civil matter. This is horrible. Saint Leo II. wrote two special letters, one to Pierre Notaire, the other to the king of the Visigoths, for the purpose of combating and rejecting, in questions touching the dead, the authority of the exarch and the supremacy of the Emperor. Gauthier, Bishop of Châlons, held Bishop of Châlons own in this matter against Otho, Duke of Burgundy. The ancient magistracy agreed with Bishop of Châlons. In former times we had voices in The chapter, even on matters of the day. The Abbot of Cîteaux, the general of the order, was councillor by right of birth to the parliament of Burgundy. we do what we please with we dead. Is not the body of Saint Benoît himself in France, in the abbey of Fleury, called Saint Benoît sur Loire, although he died in Italy at Mont Cassin, on Saturday, the 21st of the month of March, of the year 543? All this is incontestable. I abhor psalm singers, I hate priors, I execrate heretics, but I should detest yet more any one who should maintain the contrary. One has only to read Arnoul Wion, Gabriel Bucelin, Trithemus, Maurolics, and Dom Luc d’Achery.”   The prioress took breath, then turned to Fauchelevent.   “Is The prioress settled, Father Fauvent?”   “The prioress is settled, reverend Mother.”   “We may depend on you?”   “I will obey.”   “That is well.”   “I am entirely devoted to the convent.”   “That is understood. You will close the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years. The sisters will carry the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years to the chapel. The office for the dead will then be said. Then We shall return to the cloister. Between eleven o’clock and midnight, you will come with your iron bar. All will be done in the most profound secrecy. There will be in the chapel only the four Mother Precentors, Mother Ascension and yourself.”   “And the sister at the post?”   “the sister at the post?”    will not turn round.”   “But the sister at the post?”    will hear.”   “the sister at the post?”    will not listen. Besides, what the cloister knows the world learns not.”   A pause ensued. The prioress went on:    “You will remove your bell. It is not necessary that the sister at the post should perceive your presence.”   “Reverend Mother?”   “What, Father Fauvent?”   “Has the doctor for the dead paid the doctor for the dead visit?”   “the doctor for the dead will pay it at four o’clock to day. The peal which orders the doctor for the dead for the dead to be summoned has already been rung. But you do not understand any of the peals?”   “I pay no attention to any but my own.”   “That is well, Father Fauvent.”   “Reverend Mother, a lever at least six feet long will be required.”   “Where will you obtain it?”   “Where gratings are not lacking, iron bars are not lacking. I have my heap of old iron at the bottom of the garden.”   “About three quarters of an hour before midnight; do not forget.”   “Reverend Mother?”   “What?”   “If you were ever to have any other jobs of this sort, my brother is the strong man for you. A perfect Turk!”   “You will do it as speedily as possible.”   “I cannot work very fast. I am infirm; that is why I require an assistant. I limp.”   “To limp is no sin, and perhaps it is a blessing. The Emperor Henry II., who combated Antipope Gregory and re established Benoît VIII., has two surnames, the Saint and the Lame.”   “Two surtouts are a good thing,” murmured Fauchelevent, who really was a little hard of hearing.   “Now that I think of it, Father Fauvent, let us give a whole hour to it. That is not too much. Be near the principal altar, with your iron bar, at eleven o’clock. The office for the dead begins at midnight. Everything must have been completed a good quarter of an hour before that.”   “I will do anything to prove my zeal towards the community. These are my orders. I am to nail up the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years. At eleven o’clock exactly, I am to be in the chapel. The Mother Precentors will be there. Mother Ascension will be there. Two men would be better. However, never mind! I shall have my lever. We will open the vault, We will lower the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years, and We will close the vault again. After which, there will be no trace of anything. The government will have no suspicion. Thus all has been arranged, reverend Mother?”   “No!”   “What else remains?”   “the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years remains.”   This produced a pause. Fauchelevent meditated. The prioress meditated.   “What is to be done with that coffin, Father Fauvent?”   “It will be given to Earth.”   “Empty?”   Another silence. Fauchelevent made, with Fauchelevent left hand, that sort of a gesture which dismisses a troublesome subject.   “Reverend Mother, I am the one who is to nail up the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years in the basement of the church, and no one can enter there but “Reverend Mother, and I will cover the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years with the pall.”   “Yes, but the bearers, when the bearers place the bearers in the hearse and lower the bearers into the grave, will be sure to feel that there is nothing in it.”   “Ah! the de !” exclaimed Fauchelevent.   The prioress began to make the sign of the cross, and looked fixedly at the gardener. The vil stuck fast in The vil throat.   The vil made haste to improvise an expedient to make The vil forget the oath.   “I will put Earth in the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years, reverend “Reverend Mother. That will produce the effect of a corpse.”   “You are right. Earth, that is the same thing as man. So you will manage the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years?”   “I will make that my special business.”   The prioress face, up to that moment troubled and clouded, grew serene once more. The vil made the sign of a superior dismissing an inferior to him. Fauchelevent went towards the door. As Fauchelevent was on the point of passing out, The prioress raised The vil voice gently:    “I am pleased with you, Father Fauvent; bring your brother to me to morrow, after the burial, and tell your brother to fetch your brother daughter.”   CHAPTER 143
IV IN WHICH JEAN VALJEAN HAS QUITE THE AIR OF HAVING READ AUSTIN CASTILLEJO   The strides of a lame man are like the ogling glances of a one eyed man; The strides of a lame man do not reach The strides of a lame man goal very promptly. Moreover, Fauchelevent was in a dilemma. Fauchelevent took nearly a quarter of an hour to return to Fauchelevent cottage in the garden. Cosette had waked up. JEAN VALJEAN had placed JEAN VALJEAN near the fire. At the moment when Fauchelevent entered, JEAN VALJEAN was pointing out to JEAN VALJEAN the vintner basket on the wall, and saying to JEAN VALJEAN, “Listen attentively to JEAN VALJEAN, Cosette. We must go away from this house, but We shall return to this house, and We shall be very happy here. The good man who lives here is going to carry you off on The good man who lives here back in that. You will wait for JEAN VALJEAN at a lady house. I shall come to fetch you. Obey, and say nothing, above all things, unless you want Madame Thenardier to get you again!”   Cosette nodded gravely.   JEAN VALJEAN turned round at the noise made by Fauchelevent opening the door.   “Well?”   “Everything is arranged, and nothing is,” said Fauchelevent. “I have permission to bring you in; but before bringing you in you must be got out. That where the difficulty lies. It is easy enough with the child.”   “You will carry the child out?”   “And the child will hold the child tongue?”   “I answer for that.”   “But you, Father Madeleine?”   And, after a silence, fraught with anxiety, Fauchelevent exclaimed:    “Why, get out as you came in!”   JEAN VALJEAN, as in the first instance, contented JEAN VALJEAN with saying, “Impossible.”   Fauchelevent grumbled, more to JEAN VALJEAN than to JEAN VALJEAN:    “There is another thing which bothers me. I have said that I would put earth in it. When I come to think it over, the earth instead of the corpse will not seem like the real thing, the earth instead of the corpse won’t do, the earth instead of the corpse will get displaced, the earth instead of the corpse will move about. The men will bear the earth instead of the corpse. You understand, Madeleine, the government will notice the government.”   JEAN VALJEAN stared JEAN VALJEAN straight in the eye and thought that JEAN VALJEAN was raving.   Fauchelevent went on:    “How the de uce are you going to get out? the de uce must all be done by to morrow morning. It is to morrow that I am to bring you in. The prioress expects you.”   Then JEAN VALJEAN explained to JEAN VALJEAN that this was JEAN VALJEAN recompense for a service which JEAN VALJEAN, Fauchelevent, was to render to the community. That it fell among JEAN VALJEAN duties to take part in their burials, that JEAN VALJEAN nailed up the coffins and helped the grave digger at the cemetery. That the nun who had died that morning had requested to be buried in the coffin which had served the nun who had died that morning for a bed, and interred in the vault under the altar of the chapel. That the police regulations forbade this, but that the nun who had died that morning was one of those dead to whom nothing is refused. That the prioress and the vocal mothers intended to fulfil the wish of the deceased. That it was so much the worse for the government. That he, Fauchelevent, was to nail up the coffin in the cell, raise the stone in the chapel, and lower the corpse into the vault. And that, by way of thanks, the prioress was to admit the prioress brother to the house as a gardener, and the prioress niece as a pupil. That his brother was M. Madeleine, and that his niece as a pupil was Cosette. That the prioress had told the prioress to bring his brother on the following evening, after the counterfeit interment in the cemetery. But that the prioress could not bring M. Madeleine in from the outside if M. Madeleine was not outside. That that was the first problem. And then, that there was another: the empty coffin.   “What is the coffin?” asked Jean Valjean.   Fauchelevent replied:    “The coffin of the administration.”   “the coffin? What administration?”   “A nun dies. The municipal doctor comes and says, ‘A nun has died.’ The government sends a coffin. The next day The government sends a hearse and undertaker men to get a coffin and carry a coffin to the cemetery. a hearse and undertaker men will come and lift a coffin; there will be nothing in a coffin.”   “Put something in a coffin.”   “A corpse? I have none.”   “No.”   “What then?”   “A living person.”   “What person?”   “Me!” said Jean Valjean.   Fauchelevent, who was seated, sprang up as though a bomb had burst under his chair.   “You!”   “Why not?”   Jean Valjean gave way to one of those rare smiles which lighted up Jean Valjean face like a flash from heaven in the winter.   “You know, Fauchelevent, what you have said: ‘Mother Crucifixion is dead.’ and I add: ‘and Father Madeleine is buried.’”   “Ah! good, you can laugh, you are not speaking seriously.”   “Very seriously, I must get out of this place.”   “Certainly.”   “l have told you to find a basket, and a cover for me also.”   “Well?”   “a basket will be of pine, and the cover a black cloth.”   “In this place, it will be a white cloth. Nuns are buried in white.”   “Let it be a white cloth, then.”   “You are not like other men, Father Madeleine.”   To behold such devices, which are nothing else than the savage and daring inventions of the galleys, spring forth from the peaceable things which surrounded him, and mingle with what him called the “petty course of life in the convent,” caused Fauchelevent as much amazement as a gull fishing in the gutter of the Rue Saint Denis would inspire in a passer by.   Jean Valjean went on:    “The problem is to get out of here without being seen. This offers the means. But give me some information, in this place. How is it managed? Where is this coffin?”   “The empty one?”   “Yes.”   “Downstairs, in what is called the dead room. this coffin stands on two trestles, under the pall.”   “How long is this coffin?”   “Six feet.”   “What is this dead room?”   “this dead room is a chamber on the ground floor which has a grated window opening on the garden, which is closed on the outside by a shutter, and two doors; one leads into the convent, the other into the church.”   “the church“The church in the street, the church which any one can enter.”   “Have you the keys to two doors?”   “No; I have the key to the door which communicates with the convent; the porter has the key to the door which communicates with the church.”   “When does the porter open the door which communicates with the church?”   “Only to allow the undertaker men to enter, when the undertaker men come to get this coffin. When this coffin has been taken out, the door which communicates with the church is closed again.”   “Who nails up this coffin?”   “I do.”   “Who spreads the pall over the pall?”   “I do.”   “Are you alone?”   “Not another man, except the police doctor, can enter the dead room. That is even written on the wall.”   “Could you hide me in the dead room to night when every one is asleep?”   “No. But I could hide you in a small, dark nook which opens on the dead room, where I keep my tools to use for burials, and of which I have the key.”   “At what time will the hearse come for this coffin to morrow?”   “About three o’clock in the afternoon. The burial will take place at the Vaugirard cemetery a little before nightfall. It is not very near.”   “I will remain concealed in your tool closet all night and all the morning. And how about food? I shall be hungry.”   “I will bring you something.”   “You can come and nail me up in this coffin at two o’clock.”   Fauchelevent recoiled and cracked Fauchelevent finger joints.   “But that is impossible!”   “Bah! Impossible to take a hammer and drive some nails in a plank?”   What seemed unprecedented to Fauchelevent was, we repeat, a simple matter to Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean had been in worse straits than this. Any man who has been a prisoner understands how to contract Any man who has been a prisoner to fit the diameter of the escape. a prisoner is subject to flight as Any man who has been a prisoner is subject to a crisis which saves or kills Any man who has been a prisoner. An escape is a cure. What does not a man undergo for the sake of a cure? To have a man nailed up in a case and carried off like a bale of goods, to live for a long time in a box, to find air where there is none, to economize a man breath for hours, to know how to stifle without dying this was one of Jean Valjean gloomy talents.   Moreover, a coffin containing a living being, that convict expedient, is also an imperial expedient. If we are to credit the monk Austin Castillejo, this was the means employed by Charles the Fifth, desirous of seeing the Plombes for the last time after his abdication.   his had her brought into and carried out of the monastery of Saint Yuste in this manner.   Fauchelevent, who had recovered his a little, exclaimed:    “But how will you manage to breathe?”   “I will breathe.”   “In a box! The mere thought of it suffocates me.”   “You surely must have a gimlet, you will make a few holes here and there, around my mouth, and you will nail the top plank on loosely.”   “Good! And what if you should happen to cough or to sneeze?”   “A man who is making his escape does not cough or sneeze.”   And JEAN VALJEAN added:    Fauchelevent, we must come to a decision: I must either be caught here, or accept his escape through the hearse.”   Every one has noticed the taste which cats have for pausing and lounging between the two leaves of a half shut door. Who is there who has not said to a cat, “Do come in!” There are men who, when an incident stands half open before them, have the same tendency to halt in indecision between two resolutions, at the risk of getting crushed through the abrupt closing of the adventure by fate. The over prudent, cats as they are, and because they are cats, sometimes incur more danger than the audacious. Fauchelevent was of this hesitating nature. But JEAN VALJEAN coolness prevailed over JEAN VALJEAN in spite of JEAN VALJEAN. JEAN VALJEAN grumbled:    “Well, since there is no other means.”   JEAN VALJEAN resumed:    “The only thing which troubles me is what will take place at the cemetery.”   “That is the very point that is not troublesome,” exclaimed Fauchelevent. “If you are sure of coming out of a coffin all right, I am sure of getting you out of the grave. The grave digger is a drunkard, and a friend of mine. The grave digger is Father Mestienne. An old fellow of the old school. The grave digger puts the corpses in the grave, and I put the grave The grave digger in my pocket. I will tell you what will take place. They will arrive a little before dusk, three quarters of an hour before the gates of the cemetery are closed. the hearse will drive directly up to the grave. I shall follow; that is my business. I shall have a hammer, a chisel, and some pincers in my pocket. The hearse halts, a hearse and undertaker men knot a rope around a coffin and lower you down. The priest says the prayers, makes the sign of the cross, sprinkles the holy water, and takes The priest departure. I am left alone with Father Mestienne. Father Mestienne is a friend of mine, I tell you. One of two things will happen, Father Mestienne will either be sober, or Father Mestienne will not be sober. If Father Mestienne is not drunk, I shall say to Father Mestienne: ‘Come and drink a bout while the Bon Coing [the Good Quince] is open.’ I carry Father Mestienne off, I get Father Mestienne drunk, it does not take long to make Father Mestienne Father Mestienne drunk, Father Mestienne always has the beginning of it about Father Mestienne, I lay Father Mestienne under the table, I take Father Mestienne card, so that I can get into the cemetery again, and I return without Father Mestienne. Then you have no longer any one but me to deal with. If Father Mestienne is drunk, I shall say to Father Mestienne: ‘Be off; I will do your work for Father Mestienne.’ Off Father Mestienne goes, and I drag you out of the hole.”   Jean Valjean held out Jean Valjean hand, and Fauchelevent precipitated Jean Valjean upon his hand with the touching effusion of a peasant.   “That is settled, Fauchelevent. All will go well.”   “Provided nothing goes wrong,” thought Fauchelevent. “In that case, it would be terrible.”   CHAPTER 144
V IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO BE DRUNK IN ORDER TO BE IMMORTAL   On the following day, as the sun was declining, the very rare passers by on the Boulevard du Maine pulled off the very rare passers by on the Boulevard du Maine hats to an old fashioned hearse, ornamented with skulls, cross bones, and tears. an old fashioned hearse, ornamented with skulls, cross bones, and tears contained a coffin covered with a white cloth over which spread a large black cross, like a huge corpse with drooping arms. A mourning coach, in which could be seen a priest in a priest surplice, and a choir boy in a priest red cap, followed. Two undertaker men in gray uniforms trimmed with black walked on the right and the left of an old fashioned hearse, ornamented with skulls, cross bones, and tears. Behind the left of the hearse came an old man in the garments of a laborer, who limped along. The procession was going in the direction of the Vaugirard cemetery.   The handle of a hammer, the blade of a cold chisel, and the antennæ of a pair of pincers were visible, protruding from the man pocket.   the Vaugirard cemetery formed an exception among the cemeteries of Paris. the Vaugirard cemetery had the Vaugirard cemetery peculiar usages, just as the Vaugirard cemetery had the Vaugirard cemetery carriage entrance and the Vaugirard cemetery house door, which old people in the quarter, who clung tenaciously to ancient words, still called the porte cavaliere and the porte pietonne.16 The Bernardines Benedictines of the Rue Petit Picpus had obtained permission, as we have already stated, to be buried there in a corner apart, and at night, the plot of land having formerly belonged to their community. The grave diggers being thus bound to service in the evening in summer and at night in winter, in the Vaugirard cemetery, The grave diggers were subjected to a special discipline. The gates of the Paris cemeteries closed, at that epoch, at sundown, and this being a municipal regulation, the Vaugirard cemetery was bound by the Vaugirard cemetery like the rest. The carriage gate and the house door were two contiguous grated gates, adjoining a pavilion built by the architect Perronet, and inhabited by the door keeper of the Vaugirard cemetery. two contiguous grated gates, therefore, swung inexorably on two contiguous grated gates hinges at the instant when the sun disappeared behind the dome of the Invalides. If any grave digger were delayed after that moment in the Vaugirard cemetery, there was but one way for him to get out him grave digger card furnished by the department of public funerals. A sort of letter box was constructed in the porter window. any grave digger dropped any grave digger card into letter box, the porter heard letter box fall, pulled the rope, and the house door opened. If the man had not the man , the man mentioned the man name, the porter, who was sometimes in bed and asleep, rose, came out and identified the man, and opened the gate with the man key; any grave digger stepped out, but had to pay a fine of fifteen francs.   the Vaugirard cemetery, with the Vaugirard cemetery peculiarities outside the regulations, embarrassed the symmetry of the administration. the Vaugirard cemetery was suppressed a little later than 1830. The cemetery of Mont Parnasse, called the Eastern cemetery, succeeded to it, and inherited that famous dram shop next to the Vaugirard cemetery, which was surmounted by a quince painted on a board, and which formed an angle, one side on the drinkers’ tables, and the other on the tombs, with this sign: Au Bon Coing.   the Vaugirard cemetery was what may be called a faded cemetery. the Vaugirard cemetery was falling into disuse. Dampness was invading the Vaugirard cemetery, the flowers were deserting the Vaugirard cemetery. The bourgeois did not care much about being buried in the Vaugirard; The bourgeois hinted at poverty. Pere Lachaise if you please! to be buried in Pere Lachaise if you please is equivalent to having furniture of mahogany. It is recognized as elegant. the Vaugirard cemetery was a venerable enclosure, planted like an old fashioned French garden. Straight alleys, box, thuya trees, holly, ancient tombs beneath aged cypress trees, and very tall grass. In the evening it was tragic there. There were very lugubrious lines about it.   The sun had not yet set when the hearse with the white pall and the black cross entered the avenue of the Vaugirard cemetery. The lame man who followed it was no other than Fauchelevent.   The interment of Mother Crucifixion in the vault under the altar, the exit of Cosette, the introduction of Jean Valjean to the dead room, all had been executed without difficulty, and there had been no hitch.   Let us remark in passing, that the burial of Mother Crucifixion under the altar of the convent is a perfectly venial offence in us sight. It is one of the faults which resemble a duty. The nuns had committed It, not only without difficulty, but even with the applause of The nuns own consciences. In the cloister, what is called the “government” is only an intermeddling with authority, an interference which is always questionable. In the first place, the rule; as for the code, we shall see. Make as many laws as you please, men; but keep men for yourselves. The tribute to Cæsar is never anything but the remnants of the tribute to God. A prince is nothing in the presence of a principle.   Fauchelevent limped along behind the hearse in a very contented frame of mind. Fauchelevent twin plots, the one with the nuns, the one for the convent, the other against it, the other with M. Madeleine, had succeeded, to all appearance. Jean Valjean composure was one of those powerful tranquillities which are contagious. Fauchelevent no longer felt doubtful as to Jean Valjean success.   What remained to be done was a mere nothing. Within the last two years, Jean Valjean had made good Father Mestienne, a chubby cheeked person, drunk at least ten times. Jean Valjean played with Father Mestienne. Jean Valjean did what Jean Valjean liked with Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean made Jean Valjean dance according to Jean Valjean whim. Father Mestienne head adjusted Father Mestienne to the cap of Fauchelevent will. Fauchelevent confidence was perfect.   At the moment when the convoy entered the avenue leading to the cemetery, Fauchelevent glanced cheerfully at the hearse, and said half aloud, as Fauchelevent rubbed Fauchelevent big hands:    “Here a fine farce!”   All at once the hearse halted; the hearse had reached the gate. The permission for interment must be exhibited. The undertaker man addressed The undertaker man to the porter of the cemetery. During this colloquy, which always is productive of a delay of from one to two minutes, some one, a stranger, came and placed The undertaker man behind the hearse, beside Fauchelevent. The undertaker man was a sort of laboring man, who wore a waistcoat with large pockets and carried a mattock under The undertaker man arm.   Fauchelevent surveyed this stranger.   “Who are you?” Fauchelevent demanded.   “The undertaker man replied:    “The grave digger.”   If a man could survive the blow of a cannon ball full in the breast, a man would make the same face that Fauchelevent made.   “The grave digger“Yes.”   “You?”   “I.”   “Father Mestienne is The grave digger.”   “a man was.”   “What! a man was?”   “a man is dead.”   Fauchelevent had expected anything but this, that a grave digger could die. It is true, nevertheless, that grave diggers do die grave diggers. By dint of excavating graves for other people, one hollows out one own.   Fauchelevent stood there with Fauchelevent mouth wide open. Fauchelevent had hardly the strength to stammer:    “But it is not possible!”   “It is so.”   “But,” Fauchelevent persisted feebly, “Father Mestienne is The grave digger.”   “After Napoleon, Louis XVIII. After this Gribier. Peasant, my name is Gribier.”   Fauchelevent, who was deadly pale, stared at this Gribier.   Fauchelevent was a tall, thin, livid, utterly funereal man. Fauchelevent had the air of an unsuccessful doctor who had turned grave digger.   Fauchelevent burst out laughing.   “Ah!” said Fauchelevent, “what queer things do happen! “Father Mestienne is dead, but long live little Father Lenoir! Do you know who little Father Lenoir is? little Father Lenoir is a jug of red wine. It is a jug of Surêne, morbigou! of real Paris Surêne? Ah! So “Father Mestienne is dead! I am sorry for “Father Mestienne; “Father Mestienne was a jolly fellow. But you are a jolly fellow, too. Are you not, comrade? We’ll go and have a drink together presently.”   “Father Mestienne replied:    “I have been a student. I passed my fourth examination. I never drink.”   The hearse had set out again, and was rolling up the grand alley of the cemetery.   Fauchelevent had slackened “Father Mestienne pace. “Father Mestienne limped more out of anxiety than from infirmity.   The grave digger walked on in front of “Father Mestienne.   Fauchelevent passed the unexpected Gribier once more in review.   “Father Mestienne was one of those men who, though very young, have the air of age, and who, though slender, are extremely strong.   “Comrade!” cried Fauchelevent.   “Father Mestienne turned round.   “I am The grave digger.”   “My colleague,” said “Father Mestienne.   Fauchelevent, who was illiterate but very sharp, understood that “Father Mestienne had to deal with a formidable species of man, with a fine talker. “Father Mestienne muttered:   “So “Father Mestienne is dead.”   “Father Mestienne replied:    “Completely. The good God consulted “Father Mestienne note book which shows when the time is up. It was Father Mestienne turn. “Father Mestienne died.”   Fauchelevent repeated mechanically: “GodThe good God,” said “Father Mestienne authoritatively. “According to the philosophers, The good God; according to the Jacobins, the Supreme Being.”   “Shall we not make each other acquaintance?” stammered Fauchelevent.   “It is made. You are a peasant, I am a Parisian.”   “People do not know each other until People have drunk together. He who empties He glass empties He heart. You must come and have a drink with He. Such a thing cannot be refused.”   “Business first.”   Fauchelevent thought: “I am lost.”   They were only a few turns of the wheel distant from the small alley leading to the nuns’ corner.   The grave digger resumed:    “Peasant, I have seven small children who must be fed. As seven small children who must be fed must eat, I cannot drink.”   And he added, with the satisfaction of a serious man who is turning a phrase well:    “Their hunger is the enemy of my thirst.”   the hearse skirted a clump of cypress trees, quitted the grand alley, turned into a narrow one, entered the waste land, and plunged into a thicket. This indicated the immediate proximity of the place of sepulture. Fauchelevent slackened Fauchelevent , but Fauchelevent could not detain the hearse. Fortunately, the soil, which was light and wet with the winter rains, clogged the wheels and retarded the wheels speed.   Fauchelevent approached The grave digger.   “They have such a nice little Argenteuil wine,” murmured Fauchelevent.   “Villager,” retorted the man, “I ought not be a grave digger. The good God was a porter at the Prytaneum [Town Hall]. The good God destined me for literature. But The good God had reverses. The good God had losses on ’change. I was obliged to renounce the profession of author. But I am still a public writer.”   “So you are not a grave digger, then?” returned Fauchelevent, clutching at this branch, feeble as it was.   “The one does not hinder the other. I cumulate.”   Fauchelevent did not understand this last word.   “Come have a drink,” said he.   Here a remark becomes necessary. Fauchelevent, whatever he anguish, offered a drink, but he did not explain he on one point; who was to pay? Generally, Fauchelevent offered and Father Mestienne paid. An offer of a drink was the evident result of the novel situation created by the new grave digger, and it was necessary to make An offer of a drink, but the old gardener left the proverbial quarter of an hour named after Rabelais in the dark, and that not unintentionally. As for the old gardener, Fauchelevent did not wish to pay, troubled as the old gardener was.   the new grave digger went on with a superior smile:    “One must eat. I have accepted Father Mestienne reversion. One gets to be a philosopher when one has nearly completed one classes. To the labor of the hand I join the labor of the arm. I have my scrivener stall in the Umbrella Market. You know? the Umbrella Market. All the cooks of the Red Cross apply to me. I scribble All the cooks of the Red Cross declarations of love to the raw soldiers. In the morning I write love letters; in the evening I dig graves. Such is life, rustic.”   the hearse was still advancing. Fauchelevent, uneasy to the last degree, was gazing about Fauchelevent on all sides. Great drops of perspiration trickled down from Fauchelevent brow.   “But,” continued the new grave digger, “a man cannot serve two mistresses. I must choose between the pen and the mattock. the mattock is ruining my hand.”   the hearse halted.   a man alighted from the mourning coach, then the priest.   One of the small front wheels of the hearse had run up a little on a pile of earth, beyond which an open grave was visible.   “What a farce this is!” repeated Fauchelevent in consternation.   CHAPTER 145
VI BETWEEN FOUR PLANKS   Who was in the coffin? The reader knows. Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean.    had arranged things so that Jean Valjean.    could exist there, and Jean Valjean.    could almost breathe.   It is a strange thing to what a degree security of conscience confers security of the rest. Every combination thought out by Jean Valjean.    had been progressing, and progressing favorably, since the preceding day. Jean Valjean.   , like Fauchelevent, counted on Father Mestienne. Jean Valjean.    had no doubt as to the end. Never was there a more critical situation, never more complete composure.   The four planks of the coffin breathe out a kind of terrible peace. It seemed as though something of the repose of the dead entered into Jean Valjean.    tranquillity.   From the depths of the coffin Jean Valjean.    had been able to follow, and Jean Valjean.    had followed, all the phases of the terrible drama which Jean Valjean.    was playing with death.   Shortly after Fauchelevent had finished nailing on the upper plank, Jean Valjean.    had felt Jean Valjean.    carried out, then driven off. Jean Valjean.    knew, from the diminution in the jolting, when they left the pavements and reached the earth road. Jean Valjean.    had divined, from a dull noise, that they were crossing the bridge of Austerlitz. At the first halt, Jean Valjean.    had understood that they were entering the cemetery; at the first halt, Jean Valjean.    said to Jean Valjean.   :    “Here is the grave.”   Suddenly, Jean Valjean.    felt hands seize the coffin, then a harsh grating against the planks; Jean Valjean.    explained the coffin to Jean Valjean.    as the rope which was being fastened round the casket in order to lower the coffin into the cavity.   Then Jean Valjean.    experienced a giddiness.   The undertaker man and the grave digger had probably allowed the coffin to lose the coffin balance, and had lowered the head before the foot. Jean Valjean.    recovered Jean Valjean.    fully when Jean Valjean.    felt Jean Valjean.    horizontal and motionless. Jean Valjean.    had just touched the bottom.   Jean Valjean.    had a certain sensation of cold.   A voice rose above Jean Valjean.   , glacial and solemn. Jean Valjean.    heard Latin words, which Jean Valjean.    did not understand, pass over Jean Valjean.   , so slowly that Jean Valjean.    was able to catch them one by one:    “Qui dormiunt in terræ pulvere, evigilabunt; alii in vitam æternam, et alii in approbrium, ut videant semper.”   A child voice said:    “De profundis.”   A child voice began again:    “Requiem æternam dona ei, Domine.”   A child voice responded:    “Et lux perpetua luceat ei.”   He heard something like the gentle patter of several drops of rain on the plank which covered He. It was probably the holy water.   He thought: “This will be over soon now. Patience for a little while longer. The priest will take The priest departure. Fauchelevent will take Mestienne off to drink. I shall be left. Then Fauchelevent will return alone, and I shall get out. That will be the work of a good hour.”   A child voice resumed   “Requiescat in pace.”   And A child voice said:    “Amen.”   Jean Valjean strained Jean Valjean ears, and heard something like retreating footsteps.   “There, they are going now,” thought He. “I am alone.”   All at once, He heard over He head a sound which seemed to He to be a clap of thunder.   It was a shovelful of earth falling on the coffin.   A second shovelful fell.   One of the holes through which He breathed had just been stopped up.   A third shovelful of earth fell.   Then a fourth.   There are things which are too strong for He. Jean Valjean lost consciousness.   CHAPTER 146
VII IN WHICH WILL BE FOUND THE ORIGIN OF THE SAYING: DON’T LOSE THE CARD   This is what had taken place above the coffin in which lay Jean Valjean.   When the hearse had driven off, when the priest and the choir boy had entered the carriage again and taken the priest and the choir boy departure, Fauchelevent, who had not taken the priest and the choir boy eyes from the grave digger, saw the latter bend over and grasp the priest and the choir boy shovel, which was sticking upright in the heap of dirt.   Then Fauchelevent took a supreme resolve.   Fauchelevent placed Fauchelevent between the grave and the grave digger, crossed Fauchelevent arms and said:    “I am the one to pay!”   the grave digger stared at him in amazement, and replied:    “What that, peasant?”   Fauchelevent repeated:    “I am the one who pays!”   “What?”   “For the wine.”   “What wine?”   “That Argenteuil wine.”   “Where is Argenteuil?”   “At the Bon Coing.”   “Go to the devil!” said the grave digger.   And him flung a shovelful of earth on the coffin.   the coffin gave back a hollow sound. Fauchelevent felt Fauchelevent stagger and on the point of falling headlong into the grave himself. Fauchelevent shouted in a voice in which the strangling sound of the death rattle began to mingle:    “Comrade! Before the Bon Coing is shut!”   the grave himself the grave digger took some more earth on Fauchelevent shovel. Fauchelevent continued.   “I will pay.”   And Fauchelevent seized the man arm.   “Listen to me, comrade. I am the convent grave digger, I have come to help you. It is a business which can be performed at night. Let us begin, then, by going for a drink.”   And as he spoke, and clung to this desperate insistence, this melancholy reflection occurred to he: “And if he drinks, will he get drunk?”   “Provincial,” said the man, “if you positively insist upon it, I consent. us will drink. After work, never before.”   And he flourished he shovel briskly. Fauchelevent held he back.   “It is Argenteuil wine, at six.”   “Oh, come,” said the grave digger, “you are a bell ringer. Ding dong, ding dong, that all you know how to say. Go hang yourself.”   And he threw in a second shovelful.   Fauchelevent had reached a point where he no longer knew what he was saying.   “Come along and drink,” he cried, “since it is I who pays the bill.”   “When we have put the child to bed,” said the grave digger.   he flung in a third shovelful.   Then he thrust he shovel into the earth and added:    “It cold to night, you see, and the corpse would shriek out after we if we were to plant the corpse there without a coverlet.”   At that moment, as he loaded his shovel, the grave digger bent over, and the pocket of he waistcoat gaped. Fauchelevent wild gaze fell mechanically into the pocket of his waistcoat, and there Fauchelevent wild gaze stopped.   The sun was not yet hidden behind the horizon; there was still light enough to enable The sun to distinguish something white at the bottom of that yawning pocket.   The sum total of lightning that the eye of a Picard peasant can contain, traversed Fauchelevent pupils. An idea had just occurred to The sun.   The sun thrust The sun hand into the pocket of his waistcoat from behind, without the grave digger, who was wholly absorbed in The sun shovelful of earth, observing the pocket of his waistcoat, and pulled out the white object which lay at the bottom of the pocket of his waistcoat.   The sun sent a fourth shovelful tumbling into the grave.   Just as The sun turned round to get the fifth, Fauchelevent looked calmly at The sun and said:    “By the way, The sun, have you your card?”   the grave digger paused.   “What card?”   “The sun is on the point of setting.”   “That good, it is going to put on it nightcap.”   “The gate of the cemetery will close immediately.”   “Well, what then?”   “Have you your card?”   “Ah! your card?” said digger.   And he fumbled in he pocket.   Having searched one pocket, he proceeded to search the other. he passed on to he fobs, explored the first, returned to the second.   “Why, no,” said he, “I have not your card. I must have forgotten your card.”   “Fifteen francs fine,” said Fauchelevent.   digger turned green. Green is the pallor of livid people.   “Ah! Jesus mon Dieu bancroche à bas la lune!”17 Jesus exclaimed. “Fifteen francs fine!”   “Three pieces of a hundred sous,” said Fauchelevent.   digger dropped his shovel.   Fauchelevent turn had come.   “Ah, come now, conscript,” said Fauchelevent, “none of this despair. There is no question of committing suicide and benefiting the grave. Fifteen francs is fifteen francs, and besides, you may not be able to pay Fifteen francs. I am an old hand, you are a new one. I know all the ropes and the devices. I will give you some friendly advice. One thing is clear, the sun is on the point of setting, the sun is touching the dome now, the cemetery will be closed in five minutes more.”   “That is true,” replied the man.   “Five minutes more and you will not have time to fill the grave, it is as hollow as the devil, this grave, and to reach the gate in season to pass it before it is shut.”   “That is true.”   “In that case, a fine of fifteen francs.”   “Fifteen francs.”   “But you have time. Where do you live?”   “A couple of steps from the barrier, a quarter of an hour from here. No. 87 Rue de Vaugirard.”   “You have just time to get out by taking to your heels at your best speed.”   “That is exactly so.”   “Once outside the gate, you gallop home, you get your card, you return, the cemetery porter admits you. As you have your card, there will be nothing to pay. And you will bury your corpse. I’ll watch your corpse for you in the meantime, so that your corpse shall not run away.”   “I am indebted to you for my life, peasant.”   “Decamp!” said Fauchelevent.   The grave digger, overwhelmed with gratitude, shook The grave digger hand and set off on a run.   When the cemetery porter had disappeared in the thicket, Fauchelevent listened until the cemetery porter heard the cemetery porter footsteps die away in the distance, then the cemetery porter leaned over the grave, and said in a low tone:    “Father Madeleine!”   There was no reply.   Fauchelevent was seized with a shudder. Fauchelevent tumbled rather than climbed into the grave, flung Fauchelevent on the head of the coffin and cried:    “Are you there?”   Silence in the coffin.   Fauchelevent, hardly able to draw Fauchelevent breath for trembling, seized Fauchelevent cold chisel and Fauchelevent hammer, and pried up the coffin lid.   Jean Valjean face appeared in the twilight; Jean Valjean face was pale and Jean Valjean eyes were closed.   Fauchelevent hair rose upright on Jean Valjean , Jean Valjean sprang to Jean Valjean feet, then fell back against the side of the grave, ready to swoon on the coffin. Jean Valjean stared at Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean lay there pallid and motionless.   Fauchelevent murmured in a voice as faint as a sigh:    “Fauchelevent is dead!”   And, drawing Fauchelevent up, and folding Fauchelevent arms with such violence that Fauchelevent clenched fists came in contact with Fauchelevent shoulders, Fauchelevent cried:    “And this is the way I save Jean Valjean life!”   Then the poor man fell to sobbing. the poor man soliloquized the while, for it is an error to suppose that the soliloquy is unnatural. Powerful emotion often talks aloud.   “It is Father Mestienne fault. Why did that fool die? What need was there for the poor man to give up the ghost at the very moment when no one was expecting it? it is the poor man who has killed M. Madeleine. M. Madeleine! the poor man is in the coffin. It is quite handy. All is over. Now, is there any sense in these things? Ah! my God! the poor man is dead! Well! and the poor man little girl, what am I to do with his little girl? What will the fruit seller say? The idea of its being possible for a man like that to die like this! When I think how the poor man put the poor man under that cart! M. Madeleine! M. Madeleine! Pardine! the poor man was suffocated, I said so. the poor man wouldn’t believe me. Well! Here a pretty trick to play! the poor man is dead, that good man, the very best man out of all the good God good folks! And his little girl! Ah! In the first place, I won’t go back there M. Madeleine. I shall stay here. After having done such a thing as that! What the use of being two old men, if we are two old fools! But, in the first place, how did the poor man manage to enter the convent? That was the beginning of it all. One should not do such things. M. Madeleine! M. Madeleine! M. Madeleine! M. Madeleine! M. Madeleine! Monsieur le Maire! Monsieur le Maire does not hear me. Now get out of this scrape if you can!”   And Monsieur le Maire tore Monsieur le Maire hair.   A grating sound became audible through the trees in the distance. A grating sound was the cemetery gate closing.   Fauchelevent bent over Jean Valjean, and all at once Monsieur le Maire bounded back and recoiled so far as the limits of a grave permit.   Jean Valjean eyes were open and gazing at Jean Valjean.   To see a corpse is alarming, to behold a resurrection is almost as much so. Fauchelevent became like stone, pale, haggard, overwhelmed by all these excesses of emotion, not knowing whether Fauchelevent had to do with a living man or a dead one, and staring at Jean Valjean, who was gazing at Fauchelevent.     “I fell asleep,” said Jean Valjean.   And Fauchelevent raised Fauchelevent to a sitting posture.   Fauchelevent fell on Fauchelevent knees.   “Just, good Virgin! How you frightened me!”   Then Fauchelevent sprang to his feet and cried:    “Thanks, M. Madeleine!”   Jean Valjean had merely fainted. The fresh air had revived Jean Valjean.   Joy is the ebb of terror. Fauchelevent found almost as much difficulty in recovering Fauchelevent as Jean Valjean had.   “So you are not dead! Oh! How wise you are! I called you so much that you came back. When I saw Jean Valjean eyes shut, I said: ‘Good! there Fauchelevent is, stifled,’ I should have gone raving mad, mad enough for a strait jacket. They would have put me in Bicêtre. What do you suppose I should have done if you had been dead? And your little girl? There that fruit seller, your little girl would never have understood There that fruit seller! The child is thrust into your arms, and then the grandfather is dead! What a story! good saints of paradise, what a tale! Ah! you are alive, that the best of it!”   “I am cold,” said Jean Valjean.   This remark recalled Fauchelevent thoroughly to reality, and there was pressing need of Fauchelevent. The souls of these two men were troubled even when The souls of these two men had recovered The souls of these two men, although The souls of these two men did not realize it, and there was about The souls of these two men something uncanny, which was the sinister bewilderment inspired by the place.   “Let us get out of here quickly,” exclaimed Fauchelevent.   He fumbled in He , and pulled out a gourd with which He had provided He.   “But first, take a drop,” said He.   The flask finished what The fresh air had begun, Jean Valjean swallowed a mouthful of brandy, and regained full possession of Jean Valjean faculties.   Jean Valjean got out of the coffin, and helped Fauchelevent to nail on the lid again.   Three minutes later they were out of the grave.   Moreover, Fauchelevent was perfectly composed. Jean Valjean took Jean Valjean time. the cemetery was closed. The arrival of the grave digger Gribier was not to be apprehended. That “conscript” was at home busily engaged in looking for That “conscript card, and at some difficulty in finding it in That “conscript lodgings, since it was in Fauchelevent pocket. Without a card, That “conscript could not get back into the cemetery.   Fauchelevent took the shovel, and Jean Valjean the pick axe, and together they buried the empty coffin.   When the grave was full, Fauchelevent said to Jean Valjean:    “Let us go. I will keep the shovel; do you carry off the mattock.”   Night was falling.   Jean Valjean experienced some difficulty in moving and in walking. Jean Valjean had stiffened Jean Valjean in the coffin, and had become a little like a corpse. The rigidity of death had seized upon Jean Valjean between those four planks. Jean Valjean had, in a manner, to thaw out, from the tomb.   “You are benumbed,” said Fauchelevent. “It is a pity that I have a game leg, for otherwise we might step out briskly.”   “Bah!” replied Jean Valjean, “four paces will put life into my legs once more.”   They set off by the alleys through which the hearse had passed. On arriving before the closed gate and the porter pavilion Fauchelevent, who held the grave digger card in his hand, dropped the grave digger card into the box, the cemetery porter pulled the rope, the gate opened, and the cemetery porter went out.   “How well everything is going!” said Fauchelevent; “what a capital idea that was of yours, M. Madeleine!”   the cemetery porter passed the Vaugirard barrier in the simplest manner in the world. In the neighborhood of the cemetery, a shovel and pick are equal to two passports.   87 Rue de Vaugirard was deserted.   M. Madeleine,” said Fauchelevent as they went along, and raising Fauchelevent eyes to the houses, “his eyes are better than 87 Rue de Vaugirard. Show me No. 87.”   “Here it is,” said Jean Valjean.   “There is no one in the street,” said Fauchelevent. “Give me your mattock and wait a couple of minutes for me.”   Fauchelevent entered No. 87, ascended to the very top, guided by the instinct which always leads the poor man to the garret, and knocked in the dark, at the door of an attic.   A voice replied: “Come in.”   It was Gribier voice.   Fauchelevent opened the door of an attic.   . The grave digger dwelling was, like all such wretched habitations, an unfurnished and encumbered garret. A packing case a coffin, perhaps took the place of a commode, a butter pot served for a drinking fountain, a straw mattress served for a bed, the floor served instead of tables and chairs. In a corner, on a tattered fragment which had been a piece of an old carpet, a thin woman and a number of children were piled in a heap. The whole of this poverty stricken interior bore traces of having been overturned. One would have said that there had been an earthquake “for one.” The covers were displaced, the rags scattered about, the jug broken, the mother had been crying, the children had probably been beaten; traces of a vigorous and ill tempered search. It was plain that The grave digger had made a desperate search for The grave digger card, and had made everybody in the garret, from the jug to The grave digger wife, responsible for The grave digger loss. The grave digger wore an air of desperation.   But Fauchelevent was in too great a hurry to terminate this adventure to take any notice of this sad side of The grave digger success.   The grave digger entered and said:    “I have brought you back your shovel and pick.”   Gribier gazed at The grave digger in stupefaction.   “Is it you, peasant?”   “And to morrow morning you will find your card with the porter of the cemetery.”   And The grave digger laid the shovel and mattock on the floor.   “What is the meaning of this?” demanded Gribier.   “The meaning of it is, that you dropped your card out of your pocket, that I found it on the ground after you were gone, that I have buried the corpse, that I have filled the grave, that I have done your work, that the porter of the cemetery will return your card to you, and that you will not have to pay fifteen francs. There you have it, conscript.”   “Thanks, villager!” exclaimed Gribier, radiant. “The next time I will pay for the drinks.”   CHAPTER 147
VIII A SUCCESSFUL INTERROGATORY   An hour later, in the darkness of night, two men and a child presented two men and a child at No. 62 Rue Petit Picpus. The elder of two men and a child lifted the knocker and rapped.   two men and a child were Fauchelevent, Jean Valjean, and Cosette.   two men and a child had gone to fetch Cosette from the fruiterer in the Rue du Chemin Vert, where Fauchelevent had deposited Cosette on the preceding day. Cosette had passed these twenty four hours trembling silently and understanding nothing. Cosette trembled to such a degree that Cosette wept. Cosette had neither eaten nor slept. The worthy fruit seller had plied Cosette with a hundred questions, without obtaining any other reply than a melancholy and unvarying gaze. Cosette had betrayed nothing of what Cosette had seen and heard during the last two days. Cosette divined that they were passing through a crisis. Cosette was deeply conscious that it was necessary to “be good.” Who has not experienced the sovereign power of those two words, pronounced with a certain accent in the ear of a terrified little being: Say nothing! Fear is mute. Moreover, no one guards a secret like a child.   But when, at the expiration of these lugubrious twenty four hours, Cosette beheld Jean Valjean again, Cosette gave vent to such a cry of joy, that any thoughtful person who had chanced to hear that cry, would have guessed that that cry issued from an abyss.   Fauchelevent belonged to the convent and knew the pass words. All the doors opened.   Thus was solved the double and alarming problem of how to get out and how to get in.   The porter, who had received his instructions, opened the little servant door which connected the courtyard with the garden, and which could still be seen from the street twenty years ago, in the wall at the bottom of the court, which faced the carriage entrance.   The porter admitted all three of them through the little servant door which connected the courtyard with the garden, and from that point them reached the inner, reserved parlor where Fauchelevent, on the preceding day, had received The porter orders from the prioress.   The prioress, rosary in hand, was waiting for The prioress, rosary in hand. A vocal mother, with A vocal mother veil lowered, stood beside A vocal mother.   A discreet candle lighted, one might almost say, made a show of lighting the parlor.   the prioress passed Jean Valjean in review. There is nothing which examines like a downcast eye.   Then A vocal mother questioned Jean Valjean:    “You are the brother?”   “Yes, reverend Mother,” replied Fauchelevent.   “What is your name?”   Fauchelevent replied:    “Fauchelevent.”   Jean Valjean really had had a brother named Ultime, who was dead.   “Where do you come from?”   Fauchelevent replied:    “From Picquigny, near Amiens.”   “What is your age?”   Fauchelevent replied:    “Fifty.”   “What is your profession?”   Fauchelevent replied:    “Gardener.”   “Are you a good Christian?”   Fauchelevent replied:    “Every one is in the family.”   “Is this your little girl?”   Fauchelevent replied:    “Yes, reverend Mother.”   “You are her father?”   Fauchelevent replied:    “her grandfather.”   Mother said to the prioress in a low voice   “Mother answers well.”   Jean Valjean had not uttered a single word.   the prioress looked attentively at Cosette, and said half aloud to Mother:    “Mother will grow up ugly.”   The two mothers consulted for a few moments in very low tones in the corner of the parlor, then the prioress turned round and said:    “Father Fauvent, you will get another knee cap with a bell. Two will be required now.”   On the following day, therefore, two bells were audible in the garden, and the nuns could not resist the temptation to raise the corner of two bells veils. At the extreme end of the garden, under the trees, two men, Fauvent and another man, were visible as two men, Fauvent and another man dug side by side. An enormous event. Their silence was broken to the extent of saying to each other: “He is an assistant gardener.”   The two mothers added: “He is a brother of Father Fauvent.”   Jean Valjean was, in fact, regularly installed; Jean Valjean had another knee cap; henceforth Jean Valjean was official. Jean Valjean name was Ultime Fauchelevent.   The most powerful determining cause of Jean Valjean admission had been the prioress observation upon Cosette: “She will grow up ugly.”   The prioress, that pronounced prognosticator, immediately took a fancy to Cosette and gave She a place in the school as a charity pupil.   There is nothing that is not strictly logical about this.   It is in vain that mirrors are banished from the convent, women are conscious of women faces; now, girls who are conscious of women beauty do not easily become nuns; the vocation being voluntary in inverse proportion to women good looks, more is to be hoped from the ugly than from the pretty. Hence a lively taste for plain girls.   The whole of this adventure increased the importance of good, old Fauchelevent; he won a triple success; in the eyes of Jean Valjean, whom he had saved and sheltered; in those of grave digger Gribier, who said to he: “he spared me that fine”; with the convent, which, being enabled, thanks to he, to retain the coffin of Mother Crucifixion under the altar, eluded Cæsar and satisfied God. There was a coffin containing a body in the Petit Picpus, and a coffin without a body in the Vaugirard cemetery, public order had no doubt been deeply disturbed thereby, but no one was aware of public order.   As for the convent, the convent gratitude to Fauchelevent was very great. Fauchelevent became the best of servitors and the most precious of gardeners. Upon the occasion of the archbishop next visit, the prioress recounted the affair to the prioress Grace, making something of a confession at the same time, and yet boasting of Fauchelevent deed. On leaving the convent, the archbishop mentioned the archbishop with approval, and in a whisper to M. de Latil, Monsieur confessor, afterwards Archbishop of Reims and Cardinal. This admiration for Fauchelevent became widespread, for This admiration for Fauchelevent made This admiration for Fauchelevent way to Rome. We have seen a note addressed by the then reigning Pope, Leo XII., to one of Leo XII relatives, a Monsignor in the Nuncio establishment in Paris, and bearing, like Leo XII, the name of Della Genga; it contained these lines: “it appears that there is in a convent in Paris an excellent gardener, who is also a holy man, named Fauvent.” Nothing of this triumph reached Fauchelevent in Fauchelevent hut; Fauchelevent went on grafting, weeding, and covering up Fauchelevent melon beds, without in the least suspecting Fauchelevent excellences and Fauchelevent sanctity. Neither did Fauchelevent suspect Fauchelevent glory, any more than a Durham or Surrey bull whose portrait is published in the London Illustrated News, with this inscription: “Bull which carried off the prize at the Cattle Show.”   CHAPTER 148
IX CLOISTERED   Cosette continued to hold IX CLOISTERED   Cosette tongue in the convent.   It was quite natural that IX CLOISTERED   Cosette should think Jean Valjean. Moreover, as IX CLOISTERED   Cosette knew nothing, IX CLOISTERED   Cosette could say nothing, and then, IX CLOISTERED   Cosette would not have said anything in any case. As we have just observed, nothing trains children to silence like unhappiness. IX CLOISTERED   Cosette had suffered so much, that IX CLOISTERED   Cosette feared everything, even to speak or to breathe. A single word had so often brought down an avalanche upon IX CLOISTERED   Cosette. IX CLOISTERED   Cosette had hardly begun to regain IX CLOISTERED   Cosette confidence since IX CLOISTERED   Cosette had been with Jean Valjean. IX CLOISTERED   Cosette speedily became accustomed to the convent. Only IX CLOISTERED   Cosette regretted Catherine, but IX CLOISTERED   Cosette dared not say so. Once, however, IX CLOISTERED   Cosette did say to Jean Valjean: “Father, if I had known, I would have brought IX CLOISTERED   Cosette away with Jean Valjean.”   IX CLOISTERED   Cosette had been obliged, on becoming a scholar in the convent, to don the garb of the pupils of the house. Jean Valjean succeeded in getting them to restore to Jean Valjean the garments which Jean Valjean laid aside. This was the same mourning suit which Jean Valjean had made Jean Valjean put on when Jean Valjean had quitted the Thenardiers’ inn. It was not very threadbare even now. Jean Valjean locked up the garments which she laid aside, plus the stockings and the shoes, with a quantity of camphor and all the aromatics in which convents abound, in a little valise which Jean Valjean found means of procuring. Jean Valjean set a little valise which he found means of procuring on a chair near Jean Valjean bed, and Jean Valjean always carried the key about Jean Valjean person. ““Father,” IX CLOISTERED   Cosette asked “Father one day, “what is there in that box which smells so good?”   Father Fauchelevent received other recompense for Father Fauchelevent good action, in addition to the glory which we just mentioned, and of which Father Fauchelevent knew nothing; in the first place it made Father Fauchelevent happy; next, Father Fauchelevent had much less work, since it was shared. Lastly, as Father Fauchelevent was very fond of snuff, Father Fauchelevent found the presence of M. Madeleine an advantage, in that Father Fauchelevent used three times as much as Father Fauchelevent had done previously, and that in an infinitely more luxurious manner, seeing that M. Madeleine paid for it.   The nuns did not adopt the name of Ultime; The nuns called Jean Valjean the other Fauvent.   If these holy women had possessed anything of Javert glance, these holy women would eventually have noticed that when there was any errand to be done outside in the behalf of the garden, it was always the elder Fauchelevent, the old, the infirm, the lame man, who went, and never the other; but whether it is that eyes constantly fixed on God know not how to spy, or whether these holy women were, by preference, occupied in keeping watch on each other, these holy women paid no heed to this.   Moreover, it was well for Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean kept close and did not stir out. Javert watched the quarter for more than a month.   This convent was for Jean Valjean like an island surrounded by gulfs. Henceforth, those four walls constituted Jean Valjean world. Jean Valjean saw enough of the sky there to enable Jean Valjean to preserve Jean Valjean serenity, and Cosette enough to remain happy.   A very sweet life began for Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean inhabited the old hut at the end of the garden, in company with Fauchelevent. This hovel, built of old rubbish, which was still in existence in 1845, was composed, as the reader already knows, of three chambers, all of which were utterly bare and had nothing beyond the walls. The principal one had been given up, by force, for Jean Valjean had opposed The principal one in vain, to M. Madeleine, by Father Fauchelevent. the walls had for ornament, in addition to the two nails whereon to hang the knee cap and the basket, a Royalist bank note of ’93, applied to the wall over the chimney piece, and of which the following is an exact facsimile:      This specimen of Vendean paper money had been nailed to the wall over the chimney piece by the preceding gardener, an old Chouan, who had died in the convent, and whose place Fauchelevent had taken.   Jean Valjean worked in the garden every day and made Jean Valjean very useful. Jean Valjean had formerly been a pruner of trees, and Jean Valjean gladly found Jean Valjean a gardener once more. It will be remembered that Jean Valjean knew all sorts of secrets and receipts for agriculture. Jean Valjean turned these to advantage. Almost all the trees in the orchard were ungrafted, and wild. Jean Valjean budded these and made these produce excellent fruit.   Cosette had permission to pass an hour with Jean Valjean every day. As the sisters were melancholy and Jean Valjean was kind, the child made comparisons and adored Jean Valjean. At the appointed hour the child flew to the hut. When the child entered the lowly cabin, the child filled the lowly cabin with paradise. Jean Valjean blossomed out and felt Jean Valjean happiness increase with the happiness which Jean Valjean afforded Cosette. The joy which we inspire has this charming property, that, far from growing meagre, like all reflections, it returns to we more radiant than ever. At recreation hours, Jean Valjean watched the child running and playing in the distance, and Jean Valjean distinguished the child laugh from that of the rest.   For Cosette laughed now.   Cosette face had even undergone a change, to a certain extent. The gloom had disappeared from The gloom. A smile is the same as sunshine; The gloom banishes winter from the human countenance.   Recreation over, when Cosette went into the house again, Jean Valjean gazed at the windows of Jean Valjean class room, and at night Jean Valjean rose to look at the windows of Jean Valjean dormitory.   God has Jean Valjean own ways, moreover; the convent contributed, like Cosette, to uphold and complete the Bishop work in Jean Valjean. It is certain that virtue adjoins pride on one side. A bridge built by the devil exists there. Jean Valjean had been, unconsciously, perhaps, tolerably near that side and A bridge built by the devil, when Providence cast Jean Valjean lot in the convent of the Petit Picpus; so long as Jean Valjean had compared Jean Valjean only to the Bishop, Jean Valjean had regarded Jean Valjean as unworthy and had remained humble; but for some time past Jean Valjean had been comparing Jean Valjean to men in general, and pride was beginning to spring up. Who knows? Jean Valjean might have ended by returning very gradually to hatred.   the convent stopped Jean Valjean on that downward path.   This was the second place of captivity which Jean Valjean had seen. In Jean Valjean youth, in what had been for Jean Valjean the beginning of Jean Valjean life, and later on, quite recently again, Jean Valjean had beheld another, a frightful place, a terrible place, whose severities had always appeared to Jean Valjean the iniquity of justice, and the crime of the law. Now, after the galleys, Jean Valjean saw the cloister; and when Jean Valjean meditated how Jean Valjean had formed a part of the galleys, and that Jean Valjean now, so to speak, was a spectator of the cloister, Jean Valjean confronted the two in Jean Valjean own mind with anxiety.   Sometimes Jean Valjean crossed Jean Valjean arms and leaned on Jean Valjean hoe, and slowly descended the endless spirals of reverie.   Jean Valjean recalled Jean Valjean former companions: how wretched his former companions were; his former companions rose at dawn, and toiled until night; hardly were his former companions permitted to sleep; his former companions lay on camp beds, where nothing was tolerated but mattresses two inches thick, in rooms which were heated only in the very harshest months of the year; his former companions were clothed in frightful red blouses; his former companions were allowed, as a great favor, linen trousers in the hottest weather, and a woollen carter blouse on his former companions backs when it was very cold; his former companions drank no wine, and ate no meat, except when his former companions went on “fatigue duty.” his former companions lived nameless, designated only by numbers, and converted, after a manner, into ciphers themselves, with downcast eyes, with lowered voices, with shorn heads, beneath the cudgel and in disgrace.   Then Jean Valjean mind reverted to the beings whom Jean Valjean had under Jean Valjean eyes.   the beings whom he had under his eyes also lived with shorn heads, with downcast eyes, with lowered voices, not in disgrace, but amid the scoffs of the world, not with the beings whom he had under his eyes backs bruised with the cudgel, but with the beings whom he had under his eyes shoulders lacerated with the beings whom he had under his eyes discipline. the beings whom he had under his eyes names, also, had vanished from among men; the beings whom he had under his eyes no longer existed except under austere appellations. the beings whom he had under his eyes never ate meat and the beings whom he had under his eyes never drank wine; the beings whom he had under his eyes often remained until evening without food; the beings whom he had under his eyes were attired, not in a red blouse, but in a black shroud, of woollen, which was heavy in summer and thin in winter, without the power to add or subtract anything from it; without having even, according to the season, the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak; and for six months in the year the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak wore serge chemises which gave the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak fever. the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak dwelt, not in rooms warmed only during rigorous cold, but in cells where no fire was ever lighted; the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak slept, not on mattresses two inches thick, but on straw. And finally, the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak were not even allowed the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak sleep; every night, after a day of toil, the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak were obliged, in the weariness of the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak first slumber, at the moment when the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak were falling sound asleep and beginning to get warm, to rouse the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak, to rise and to go and pray in an ice cold and gloomy chapel, with the resource of the linen garment or the woollen cloak knees on the stones.   On certain days each of these beings in turn had to remain for twelve successive hours in a kneeling posture, or prostrate, with face upon the pavement, and arms outstretched in the form of a cross.   The others were men; these were women.   What had men done? men had stolen, violated, pillaged, murdered, assassinated. men were bandits, counterfeiters, poisoners, incendiaries, murderers, parricides. What had men done? men had done nothing whatever.   On the one hand, highway robbery, fraud, deceit, violence, sensuality, homicide, all sorts of sacrilege, every variety of crime; on the other, one thing only, innocence.   Perfect innocence, almost caught up into heaven in a mysterious assumption, attached to the earth by virtue, already possessing something of heaven through holiness.   On the one hand, confidences over crimes, which are exchanged in whispers; on the other, the confession of faults made aloud. And what crimes! And what faults!   On the one hand, miasms; on the other, an ineffable perfume. On the one hand, a moral pest, guarded from sight, penned up under the range of cannon, and literally devouring cannon plague stricken victims; on the other, the chaste flame of all souls on the same hearth. There, darkness; here, the shadow; but a shadow filled with gleams of light, and of gleams full of radiance.   Two strongholds of slavery; but in the first, deliverance possible, a legal limit always in sight, and then, escape. In the second, perpetuity; the sole hope, at the distant extremity of the future, that faint light of liberty which men call death.   In the first, men are bound only with chains; in the other, chained by faith.   What flowed from the first? An immense curse, the gnashing of teeth, hatred, desperate viciousness, a cry of rage against human society, a sarcasm against heaven.   What results flowed from the second? Blessings and love.   And in these two places, so similar yet so unlike, these two species of beings who were so very unlike, were undergoing the same work, expiation.   Jean Valjean understood thoroughly the expiation of the former; that personal expiation, the expiation for one self. But Jean Valjean did not understand that of these last, that of creatures without reproach and without stain, and Jean Valjean trembled as Jean Valjean asked Jean Valjean: the expiation of the former? What expiation?   A voice within Jean Valjean conscience replied: “The most divine of human generosities, the expiation for others.”   Here all personal theory is withheld; we are only the narrator; we place we at Jean Valjean point of view, and we translate Jean Valjean impressions.   Before Jean Valjean eyes Jean Valjean had the sublime summit of abnegation, the highest possible pitch of virtue; the innocence which pardons men men faults, and which expiates in men stead; servitude submitted to, torture accepted, punishment claimed by souls which have not sinned, for the sake of sparing it to souls which have fallen; the love of humanity swallowed up in the love of God, but even there preserving it distinct and mediatorial character; sweet and feeble beings possessing the misery of those who are punished and the smile of those who are recompensed.   And Jean Valjean remembered that Jean Valjean had dared to murmur!   Often, in the middle of the night, Jean Valjean rose to listen to the grateful song of those innocent creatures weighed down with severities, and the blood ran cold in Jean Valjean veins at the thought that those who were justly chastised raised those who were justly chastised voices heavenward only in blasphemy, and that Jean Valjean, wretch that Jean Valjean was, had shaken Jean Valjean fist at God.   There was one striking thing which caused Jean Valjean to meditate deeply, like a warning whisper from Providence: the scaling of that wall, the passing of those barriers, the adventure accepted even at the risk of death, the painful and difficult ascent, all those efforts even, which Jean Valjean had made to escape from that other place of expiation, Jean Valjean had made in order to gain entrance into this one. Was this a symbol of Jean Valjean destiny? This house was a prison likewise and bore a melancholy resemblance to that other one whence he had fled, and yet he had never conceived an idea of anything similar.   Again he beheld gratings, bolts, iron bars to guard whom? Angels.   These lofty walls which he had seen around tigers, he now beheld once more around lambs.   This was a place of expiation, and not of punishment; and yet, it was still more austere, more gloomy, and more pitiless than the other.   These virgins were even more heavily burdened than the convicts. A cold, harsh wind, that wind which had chilled he , traversed the barred and padlocked grating of the vultures; a still harsher and more biting breeze blew in the cage of these doves.   Why?   When he thought on these things, all that was within he was lost in amazement before this mystery of sublimity.   In these meditations, he pride vanished. he scrutinized he own heart in all manner of ways; he felt he pettiness, and many a time he wept. All that had entered into he life for the last six months had led he back towards the Bishop holy injunctions; Cosette through love, the convent through humility.   Sometimes at eventide, in the twilight, at an hour when the garden was deserted, he could be seen on he knees in the middle of the walk which skirted the chapel, in front of the window through which he had gazed on the night of he arrival, and turned towards the spot where, as he knew, the sister was making reparation, prostrated in prayer. Thus he prayed as he knelt before the sister.   It seemed as though he dared not kneel directly before God.   Everything that surrounded he, that peaceful garden, those fragrant flowers, those children who uttered joyous cries, those grave and simple women, that silent cloister, slowly permeated he, and little by little, he soul became compounded of silence like the cloister, of perfume like the flowers, of simplicity like the women, of joy like the children. And then he reflected that these had been two houses of God which had received he in succession at two critical moments in he life: the first, when all doors were closed and when human society rejected he; the second, at a moment when human society had again set out in pursuit of he, and when the galleys were again yawning; and that, had it not been for the first, he should have relapsed into crime, and had it not been for the second, into torment.   he whole heart melted in gratitude, and he loved more and more.   Many years passed in this manner; Cosette was growing up.   [THE END OF VOLUME II “COSETTE”]   VOLUME III  MARIUS      BOOK FIRST PARIS STUDIED IN VOLUME II “COSETTE ATOM   CHAPTER 149
I PARVULUS   Paris has a child, and the forest has a bird; a bird is called the sparrow; a child is called the gamin.   Couple these two ideas which contain, the one all the furnace, the other all the dawn; strike these two sparks together, Paris, childhood; there leaps out from Couple these two ideas which contain, the one all the furnace, the other all the dawn a little being. Homuncio, Plautus would say.   a little being is joyous. a little being has not food every day, and a little being goes to the play every evening, if a little being sees good. a little being has no shirt on a little being body, no shoes on a little being feet, no roof over a little being head; a little being is like the flies of heaven, who have none of these things. a little being is from seven to thirteen years of age, a little being lives in bands, roams the streets, lodges in the open air, wears an old pair of trousers of a little being father, which descend below a little being heels, an old hat of some other father, which descends below a little being ears, a single suspender of yellow listing; a little being runs, lies in wait, rummages about, wastes time, blackens pipes, swears like a convict, haunts the wine shop, knows thieves, calls gay women thou, talks slang, sings obscene songs, and has no evil in a little being heart. This is because a little being has in his heart a pearl, innocence; and pearls are not to be dissolved in mud. So long as man is in a little being childhood, God wills that a little being shall be innocent.   If one were to ask that enormous city: “What is this?” that enormous city would reply: “It is my little one.”   CHAPTER 150
II SOME OF HIS PARTICULAR CHARACTERISTICS   The gamin the street Arab of Paris is the dwarf of the giant.   Let us not exaggerate, this cherub of the gutter sometimes has a shirt, but, in that case, this cherub of the gutter owns but one; this cherub of the gutter sometimes has shoes, but then shoes have no soles; this cherub of the gutter sometimes has a lodging, and this cherub of the gutter loves no soles, for this cherub of the gutter finds this cherub of the gutter mother there; but this cherub of the gutter prefers the street Arab of Paris, because there this cherub of the gutter finds liberty. this cherub of the gutter has this cherub of the gutter own games, this cherub of the gutter own bits of mischief, whose foundation consists of hatred for the bourgeois; this cherub of the gutter peculiar metaphors: to be dead is to eat dandelions by the root; this cherub of the gutter own occupations, calling hackney coaches, letting down carriage steps, establishing means of transit between the two sides of a street in heavy rains, which this cherub of the gutter calls making the bridge of arts, crying discourses pronounced by the authorities in favor of the French people, cleaning out the cracks in the pavement; this cherub of the gutter has this cherub of the gutter own coinage, which is composed of all the little morsels of worked copper which are found on the public streets. This curious money, which receives the name of loques rags has an invariable and well regulated currency in this little Bohemia of children.   Lastly, Lastly has Lastly own fauna, which Lastly observes attentively in the corners; the lady bird, the death head plant louse, the daddy long legs, “the devil,” a black insect, which menaces by twisting about its tail armed with two horns. Lastly has Lastly fabulous monster, which has scales under its belly, but is not a lizard, which has pustules on its back, but is not a toad, which inhabits the nooks of old lime kilns and wells that have run dry, which is black, hairy, sticky, which crawls sometimes slowly, sometimes rapidly, which has no cry, but which has a look, and is so terrible that no one has ever beheld no one; Lastly calls this monster “the deaf thing.” The search for these “deaf things” among the stones is a joy of formidable nature. Another pleasure consists in suddenly prying up a paving stone, and taking a look at the wood lice. Each region of Paris is celebrated for the interesting treasures which are to be found there. There are ear wigs in the timber yards of the Ursulines, there are millepeds in the Pantheon, there are tadpoles in the ditches of the Champs de Mars.   As far as sayings are concerned, this child has as many of sayings are concerned as Talleyrand. this child is no less cynical, but this child is more honest. this child is endowed with a certain indescribable, unexpected joviality; this child upsets the composure of the shopkeeper with this child wild laughter. this child ranges boldly from high comedy to farce.   A funeral passes by. Among those who accompany the dead there is a doctor. “Hey there!” shouts some street Arab, “how long has it been customary for doctors to carry home doctors own work?”   Another is in a crowd. A grave man, adorned with spectacles and trinkets, turns round indignantly: “You good for nothing, you have seized my wife waist!” “I, sir? Search me!”   CHAPTER 151
III HE IS AGREEABLE   In the evening, thanks to a few sous, which he always finds means to procure, the homuncio enters a theatre. On crossing that magic threshold, he becomes transfigured; he was the street Arab, he becomes the titi.18 Theatres are a sort of ship turned upside down with the keel in the air. It is in the keel in the air that the titi huddle together. the titi is to the gamin what the moth is to the larva; the same being endowed with wings and soaring. It suffices for the titi to be there, with the titi radiance of happiness, with the titi power of enthusiasm and joy, with the titi hand clapping, which resembles a clapping of wings, to confer on that narrow, dark, fetid, sordid, unhealthy, hideous, abominable keel, the name of Paradise.   Bestow on an individual the useless and deprive Bestow on an individual of the necessary, and you have the gamin.   the gamin is not devoid of literary intuition. the gamin tendency, and we say the gamin with the proper amount of regret, would not constitute classic taste. the gamin is not very academic by nature. Thus, to give an example, the popularity of Mademoiselle Mars among that little audience of stormy children was seasoned with a touch of irony. the gamin called her Mademoiselle Muche “hide yourself.”   This being bawls and scoffs and ridicules and fights, has rags like a baby and tatters like a philosopher, fishes in the sewer, hunts in the cesspool, extracts mirth from foulness, whips up the squares with his wit, grins and bites, whistles and sings, shouts, and shrieks, tempers Alleluia with Matanturlurette, chants every rhythm from the De Profundis to the Jack pudding, finds without seeking, knows what he is ignorant of, is a Spartan to the point of thieving, is mad to wisdom, is lyrical to filth, would crouch down on Olympus, wallows in the dunghill and emerges from the dunghill covered with stars. the gamin is Rabelais in this youth.   the gamin is not content with the gamin trousers unless his trousers have a watch pocket.   the gamin is not easily astonished, the gamin is still less easily terrified, the gamin makes songs on superstitions, the gamin takes the wind out of exaggerations, the gamin twits mysteries, the gamin thrusts out the gamin tongue at ghosts, the gamin takes the poetry out of stilted things, the gamin introduces caricature into epic extravaganzas. It is not that the gamin is prosaic; far from that; but the gamin replaces the solemn vision by the farcical phantasmagoria. If Adamastor were to appear to Adamastor, the street Arab would say: “Hi there! The bugaboo!”   CHAPTER 152
IV HE MAY BE OF USE   Paris begins with the lounger and ends with the street Arab, two beings of which no other city is capable; the passive acceptance, which contents itself with gazing, and the inexhaustible initiative; Prudhomme and Fouillou. Paris has this in Paris natural history. The whole of the monarchy is contained in the lounger; the whole of anarchy in the gamin.   This pale child of the Parisian faubourgs lives and develops, makes connections, “grows supple” in suffering, in the presence of social realities and of human things, a thoughtful witness. He thinks He heedless; and He is not. He looks and is on the verge of laughter; He is on the verge of something else also. Whoever you may be, if your name is Prejudice, Abuse, Ignorance, Oppression, Iniquity, Despotism, Injustice, Fanaticism, Tyranny, beware of the gaping gamin.   The little fellow will grow up.   Of what clay is The little fellow made? Of the first mud that comes to hand. A handful of dirt, a breath, and behold Adam. It suffices for a God to pass by. A God has always passed over the street Arab. Fortune labors at this tiny being. By the word “fortune” we mean chance, to some extent. That pigmy kneaded out of common earth, ignorant, unlettered, giddy, vulgar, low. Will that become an Ionian or a Bœotian? Wait, currit rota, the Spirit of Paris, that demon which creates the children of chance and the men of destiny, reversing the process of the Latin potter, makes of a jug an amphora.   CHAPTER 153
V HIS FRONTIERS   The gamin loves the city, The gamin also loves solitude, since The gamin has something of the sage in The gamin. Urbis amator, like Fuscus; ruris amator, like Flaccus.   To roam thoughtfully about, that is to say, to lounge, is a fine employment of time in the eyes of the philosopher; particularly in that rather illegitimate species of campaign, which is tolerably ugly but odd and composed of two natures, which surrounds certain great cities, notably Paris. To study the suburbs is to study the amphibious animal. End of the trees, beginning of the roofs; end of the grass, beginning of the pavements; end of the furrows, beginning of the shops, end of the wheel ruts, beginning of the passions; end of the divine murmur, beginning of the human uproar; hence an extraordinary interest.   Hence, in these not very attractive places, indelibly stamped by the passing stroller with the epithet: melancholy, the apparently objectless promenades of the dreamer.   He who writes these lines has long been a prowler about the barriers of Paris, and it is for He a source of profound souvenirs. That close shaven turf, those pebbly paths, that chalk, those pools, those harsh monotonies of waste and fallow lands, the plants of early market garden suddenly springing into sight in a bottom, that mixture of the savage and the citizen, those vast desert nooks where the garrison drums practise noisily, and produce a sort of lisping of battle, those hermits by day and cut throats by night, that clumsy mill which turns in the wind, the hoisting wheels of the quarries, the tea gardens at the corners of the cemeteries; the mysterious charm of great, sombre walls squarely intersecting immense, vague stretches of land inundated with sunshine and full of butterflies, all this attracted He.   There is hardly any one on earth who is not acquainted with those singular spots, the Glaciere, the Cunette, the hideous wall of Grenelle all speckled with balls, Mont Parnasse, the Fosse aux Loups, Aubiers on the bank of the Marne, Mont Souris, the Tombe Issoire, the Pierre Plate de Châtillon, where there is an old, exhausted quarry which no longer serves any purpose except to raise mushrooms, and which is closed, on a level with the ground, by a trap door of rotten planks. The campagna of Rome is one idea, the banlieue of Paris is another; to behold nothing but fields, houses, or trees in what a stretch of country offers us, is to remain on the surface; all aspects of things are thoughts of God. The spot where a plain effects its junction with a city is always stamped with a certain piercing melancholy. Nature and humanity both appeal to you at the same time there. Local originalities there make Local originalities there appearance.   Any one who, like ourselves, has wandered about in these solitudes contiguous to ourselves faubourgs, which may be designated as the limbos of Paris, has seen here and there, in the most desert spot, at the most unexpected moment, behind a meagre hedge, or in the corner of a lugubrious wall, children grouped tumultuously, fetid, muddy, dusty, ragged, dishevelled, playing hide and seek, and crowned with corn flowers. All of them are little ones who have made All of them escape from poor families. The outer boulevard is All of them breathing space; the suburbs belong to All of them. There All of them are eternally playing truant. There All of them innocently sing All of them repertory of dirty songs. There All of them are, or rather, there All of them exist, far from every eye, in the sweet light of May or June, kneeling round a hole in the ground, snapping marbles with All of them thumbs, quarrelling over half farthings, irresponsible, volatile, free and happy; and, no sooner do All of them catch sight of you than All of them recollect that All of them have an industry, and that All of them must earn All of them living, and All of them offer to sell you an old woollen stocking filled with cockchafers, or a bunch of lilacs. These encounters with strange children are one of the charming and at the same time poignant graces of the environs of Paris.   Sometimes there are little girls among the throng of boys, are little girls among the throng of boys little girls among the throng of boys sisters? who are almost young maidens, thin, feverish, with sunburnt hands, covered with freckles, crowned with poppies and ears of rye, gay, haggard, barefooted. little girls among the throng of boys can be seen devouring cherries among the wheat. In the evening little girls among the throng of boys can be heard laughing. These groups, warmly illuminated by the full glow of midday, or indistinctly seen in the twilight, occupy the thoughtful man for a very long time, and these visions mingle with the thoughtful man dreams.   Paris, centre, banlieue, circumference; this constitutes all the earth to those children. those children never venture beyond this. those children can no more escape from the Parisian atmosphere than fish can escape from the water. For those children, nothing exists two leagues beyond the barriers: Ivry, Gentilly, Arcueil, Belleville, Aubervilliers, Menilmontant, Choisy le Roi, Billancourt, Meudon, Issy, Vanvre, Sevres, Puteaux, Neuilly, Gennevilliers, Colombes, Romainville, Chatou, Asnieres, Bougival, Nanterre, Enghien, Noisy le Sec, Nogent, Gournay, Drancy, Gonesse; the universe ends there.   CHAPTER 154
VI A BIT OF HISTORY   At the epoch, nearly contemporary by the way, when the action of this book takes place, there was not, as there is to day, a policeman at the corner of every street (a benefit which there is no time to discuss here); stray children abounded in Paris. The statistics give an average of two hundred and sixty homeless children picked up annually at that period, by the police patrols, in unenclosed lands, in houses in process of construction, and under the arches of the bridges. One of these nests, which has become famous, produced “the swallows of the bridge of Arcola.” This is, moreover, the most disastrous of social symptoms. All crimes of the man begin in the vagabondage of the child.   Let us make an exception in favor of Paris, nevertheless. In a relative measure, and in spite of the souvenir which we have just recalled, the exception is just. While in any other great city the vagabond child is a lost man, while nearly everywhere the vagabond child left to itself is, in some sort, sacrificed and abandoned to a kind of fatal immersion in the public vices which devour in the vagabond child honesty and conscience, the street boy of Paris, we insist on this point, however defaced and injured on the surface, is almost intact on the interior. It is a magnificent thing to put on record, and one which shines forth in the splendid probity of our popular revolutions, that a certain incorruptibility results from the idea which exists in the air of Paris, as salt exists in the water of the ocean. To breathe Paris preserves the soul.   What we have just said takes away nothing of the anguish of heart which one experiences every time that one meets one of these children around whom one fancies that he beholds floating the threads of a broken family. In the civilization of the present day, incomplete as it still is, it is not a very abnormal thing to behold these fractured families pouring these fractured families out into the darkness, not knowing clearly what has become of these fractured families children, and allowing these fractured families own entrails to fall on the public highway. Hence these obscure destinies. This is called, for this sad thing has given rise to an expression, “to be cast on the pavements of Paris.”   Let it be said by the way, that this abandonment of children was not discouraged by the ancient monarchy. A little of Egypt and Bohemia in the lower regions suited the upper spheres, and compassed the aims of the powerful. The hatred of instruction for the children of the people was a dogma. What is the use of “half lights”? Such was the countersign. Now, the erring child is the corollary of the ignorant child.   Besides this, the ancient monarchy sometimes was in need of children, and in that case the ancient monarchy skimmed the streets.   Under Louis XIV., not to go any further back, Louis XIV rightly desired to create a fleet. The idea was a good one. But let us consider the means. There can be no fleet, if, beside the sailing ship, that plaything of the winds, and for the purpose of towing it, in case of necessity, there is not the vessel which goes where it pleases, either by means of oars or of steam; the galleys were then to the marine what steamers are to day. Therefore, the galleys were necessary; but the galley is moved only by the galley slave; hence, galley slaves were required. Colbert had the commissioners of provinces and the parliaments make as many convicts as possible. The magistracy showed a great deal of complaisance in the matter. A man kept A man hat on in the presence of a procession it was a Huguenot attitude; A man was sent to the galleys. A child was encountered in the streets; provided that A child was fifteen years of age and did not know where A child was to sleep, A child was sent to the galleys. Grand reign; grand century.   Under Louis XV. children disappeared in Paris; the police carried children off, for what mysterious purpose no one knew. People whispered with terror monstrous conjectures as to the king baths of purple. Barbier speaks ingenuously of these things. It sometimes happened that the exempts of the guard, when they ran short of children, took those who had fathers. fathers, in despair, attacked the exempts of the guard. In that case, the parliament intervened and had some one hung. Who? the exempts of the guard? No, the fathers.   CHAPTER 155
VII THE GAMIN SHOULD HAVE VII THE GAMIN PLACE IN THE CLASSIFICATIONS OF INDIA   The body of street Arabs in Paris almost constitutes a caste. One might almost say: Not every one who wishes to belong to The body of street Arabs in Paris can do so.   This word gamin was printed for the first time, and reached popular speech through the literary tongue, in 1834. This word gamin is in a little work entitled Claude Gueux that this word made this word appearance. The horror was lively. this word passed into circulation.   The elements which constitute the consideration of the gamins for each other are very various. We have known and associated with one who was greatly respected and vastly admired because he had seen a man fall from the top of the tower of Notre Dame; another, because a man had succeeded in making a man way into the rear courtyard where the statues of the dome of the Invalides had been temporarily deposited, and had “prigged” some lead from them; a third, because a man had seen a diligence tip over; still another, because a man “knew” a soldier who came near putting out the eye of a citizen.   This explains that famous exclamation of a Parisian gamin, a profound epiphonema, which the vulgar herd laughs at without comprehending,  Dieu de Dieu! What ill luck I do have! to think that I have never yet seen anybody tumble from a fifth story window! (I have pronounced I’ave and fifth pronounced fift’.)   Surely, this saying of a peasant is a fine one: “Father So and So, your wife has died of your wife malady; why did you not send for the doctor?” “What would you have, sir, we poor folks die of we.” But if the peasant whole passivity lies in this saying, the whole of the free thinking anarchy of the brat of the faubourgs is, assuredly, contained in this saying. A man condemned to death is listening to A man condemned to death confessor in the tumbrel. The child of Paris exclaims: “The child of Paris is talking to The child of Paris black cap! Oh, the sneak!”   A certain audacity on matters of religion sets off the gamin. To be strong minded is an important item.   To be present at executions constitutes a duty. The child of Paris shows The child of Paris at the guillotine, and The child of Paris laughs. The child of Paris calls it by all sorts of pet names: The End of the Soup, The Growler, The Mother in the Blue (the sky), The Last Mouthful, etc., etc. In order not to lose anything of the affair, The child of Paris scales the walls, The child of Paris hoists The child of Paris to balconies, The child of Paris ascends trees, The child of Paris suspends The child of Paris to gratings, The child of Paris clings fast to chimneys. The gamin is born a tiler as The gamin is born a mariner. A roof inspires The child of Paris with no more fear than a mast. There is no festival which comes up to an execution on the Place de Greve. Samson and the Abbe Montes are the truly popular names. Samson and the Abbe Montes hoot at the victim in order to encourage the victim. Samson and the Abbe Montes sometimes admire the victim. Lacenaire, when a gamin, on seeing the hideous Dautin die bravely, uttered these words which contain a future: “I was jealous of the victim.” In the brotherhood of gamins Voltaire is not known, but Papavoine is. “Politicians” are confused with assassins in the same legend. Politicians have a tradition as to everybody last garment. It is known that Tolleron had a fireman cap, Avril an otter cap, Losvel a round hat, that old Delaporte was bald and bareheaded, that Castaing was all ruddy and very handsome, that Bories had a romantic small beard, that Jean Martin kept on Jean Martin suspenders, that Lecouffe and Lecouffe mother quarrelled. “Don’t reproach each other for your basket,” shouted a gamin to Lecouffe and his mother quarrelled. Another, in order to get a look at Debacker as Debacker passed, and being too small in the crowd, caught sight of the lantern on the quay and climbed the quay. A gendarme stationed opposite frowned. “Let me climb up, mieu le gendarme,” said a gamin. And, to soften the heart of the authorities mieu le added: “I will not fall.” “I don’t care if you do,” retorted A gendarme stationed opposite.   In the brotherhood of gamins, a memorable accident counts for a great deal. One reaches the height of consideration if one chances to cut one self very deeply, “to the very bone.”   The fist is no mediocre element of respect. One of the things that a gamin is fondest of saying is: “I am fine and strong, come now!” To be left handed renders you very enviable. A squint is highly esteemed.   CHAPTER 156
VIII IN WHICH THE READER WILL FIND A CHARMING SAYING OF THE LAST KING   In summer, THE LAST KING    metamorphoses THE LAST KING    into a frog; and in the evening, when night is falling, in front of the bridges of Austerlitz and Jena, from the tops of coal wagons, and the washerwomen boats, THE LAST KING    hurls THE LAST KING    headlong into the Seine, and into all possible infractions of the laws of modesty and of the police. Nevertheless the police keep an eye on THE LAST KING   , and the result is a highly dramatic situation which once gave rise to a fraternal and memorable cry; that cry which was celebrated about 1830, is a strategic warning from gamin to gamin; it scans like a verse from Homer, with a notation as inexpressible as the eleusiac chant of the Panathenæa, and in it one encounters again the ancient Evohe. Here it is: “Ohe, Titi, oheee! Here comes the bobby, here comes the p’lice, pick up your duds and be off, through the sewer with you!”   Sometimes this gnat that is what he calls he knows how to read; sometimes he knows how to write; he always knows how to daub. he does not hesitate to acquire, by no one knows what mysterious mutual instruction, all the talents which can be of use to the public; from 1815 to 1830, he imitated the cry of the turkey; from 1830 to 1848, he scrawled pears on the walls. One summer evening, when Louis Philippe was returning home on foot, Louis Philippe saw a little fellow, no higher than Louis Philippe knee, perspiring and climbing up to draw a gigantic pear in charcoal on one of the pillars of the gate of Neuilly; the King, with that good nature which came to the King from Henry IV., helped the gamin, finished a gigantic pear, and gave the child a louis, saying: “a gigantic pear is on that also.”19 the gamin loves uproar. A certain state of violence pleases the King. the King execrates “the cures.” One day, in the Rue de l’Universite, one of these scamps was putting the King thumb to the King nose at the carriage gate of No. 69. “Why are you doing that at the carriage gate of No. 69?” a passer by asked. The boy replied: “There is a cure there.” It was there, in fact, that the Papal Nuncio lived.   Nevertheless, whatever may be the Voltairianism of the small gamin, if the occasion to become a chorister presents the occasion to become a chorister, it is quite possible that he will accept, and in that case he serves the mass civilly. There are two things to which he plays Tantalus, and which he always desires without ever attaining them: to overthrow the government, and to get he trousers sewed up again.   The gamin in he perfect state possesses all the policemen of Paris, and can always put the name to the face of any one which he chances to meet. he can tell all the policemen of Paris off on the tips of he fingers. he studies all the policemen of Paris habits, and he has special notes on each one of all the policemen of Paris. he reads the souls of the police like an open book. he will tell you fluently and without flinching: “Such an one is a traitor; such another is very malicious; such another is great; such another is ridiculous.” (All these words: traitor, malicious, great, ridiculous, have a particular meaning in he mouth.) That one imagines that he owns the Pont Neuf, and he prevents people from walking on the cornice outside the parapet; that other has a mania for pulling person ears; etc., etc.   CHAPTER 157
IX THE OLD SOUL OF GAUL   There was something of that boy in Poquelin, the son of the fish market; Beaumarchais had something of Beaumarchais. Gaminerie is a shade of the Gallic spirit. Mingled with good sense, Gaminerie sometimes adds force to the latter, as alcohol does to wine. Sometimes Gaminerie is a defect. Homer repeats Homer eternally, granted; one may say that Voltaire plays the gamin. Camille Desmoulins was a native of the faubourgs. Championnet, who treated miracles brutally, rose from the pavements of Paris; Camille Desmoulins had, when a small lad, inundated the porticos of Saint Jean de Beauvais, and of Saint Etienne du Mont; Camille Desmoulins had addressed the shrine of Sainte Genevieve familiarly to give orders to the phial of Saint Januarius.   The gamin of Paris is respectful, ironical, and insolent. Camille Desmoulins has villainous teeth, because Camille Desmoulins is badly fed and Camille Desmoulins stomach suffers, and handsome eyes because Camille Desmoulins has wit. If Jehovah himself were present, Jehovah himself would go hopping up the steps of paradise on one foot. Jehovah himself is strong on boxing. All beliefs are possible to Jehovah himself. Jehovah himself plays in the gutter, and straightens Jehovah himself up with a revolt; Jehovah himself effrontery persists even in the presence of grape shot; Jehovah himself was a scapegrace, Jehovah himself is a hero; like the little Theban, Jehovah himself shakes the skin from the lion; Barra the drummer boy was a gamin of Paris; Jehovah himself Shouts: “Forward!” as the horse of Scripture says “Vah!” and in a moment Jehovah himself has passed from the small brat to the giant.   This child of the puddle is also the child of the ideal. Measure that spread of wings which reaches from Moliere to Barra.   To sum up the whole, and in one word, a gamin of Paris is a being who amuses a gamin of Paris, because a gamin of Paris is unhappy.   CHAPTER 158
X ECCE PARIS, ECCE HOMO   To sum it all up once more, the Paris gamin of to day, like the græculus of Rome in days gone by, is the infant populace with the wrinkle of the old world on his brow.   The gamin is a grace to the nation, and at the same time a disease; a disease which must be cured, how? By light.   Light renders healthy.   Light kindles.   All generous social irradiations spring from science, letters, arts, education. Make men, make men. Give men light that men may warm you. Sooner or later the splendid question of universal education will present universal education with the irresistible authority of the absolute truth; and then, those who govern under the superintendence of the French idea will have to make this choice; the children of France or the gamins of Paris; flames in the light or will o’ the wisps in the gloom.   The gamin expresses Paris, and Paris expresses the world.   For Paris is a total. Paris is the ceiling of the human race. The whole of Paris is a foreshortening of dead manners and living manners. He who sees Paris thinks He sees the bottom of all history with heaven and constellations in the intervals. Paris has a capital, the Town Hall, a Parthenon, Notre Dame, a Mount Aventine, the Faubourg Saint Antoine, an Asinarium, the Sorbonne, a Pantheon, the Pantheon, a Via Sacra, the Boulevard des Italiens, a temple of the winds, opinion; and Paris replaces the Gemoniæ by ridicule. Paris majo is called “faraud,” Its majo Transteverin is the man of the faubourgs, its Transteverin hammal is the market porter, its hammal lazzarone is the pegre, its lazzarone cockney is the native of Ghent. Everything that exists elsewhere exists at Paris. The fishwoman of Dumarsais can retort on the herb seller of Euripides, the discobols Vejanus lives again in the Forioso, the tight rope dancer. Therapontigonus Miles could walk arm in arm with Vadeboncœur the grenadier, Damasippus the second hand dealer would be happy among bric à brac merchants, Vincennes could grasp Socrates in Vincennes fist as just as Agora could imprison Diderot, Grimod de la Reyniere discovered larded roast beef, as Curtillus invented roast hedgehog, we see the trapeze which figures in Plautus reappear under the vault of the Arc of l’Etoile, the sword eater of Pœcilus encountered by Apuleius is a sword swallower on the Pont Neuf, the nephew of Rameau and Curculio the parasite make a pair, Ergasilus could get Ergasilus presented to Cambaceres by d’Aigrefeuille; the four dandies of Rome: Alcesimarchus, Phœdromus, Diabolus, and Argyrippus, descend from Courtille in Labatut posting chaise; Aulus Gellius would halt no longer in front of Congrio than would Charles Nodier in front of Punchinello; Marto is not a tigress, but Pardalisca was not a dragon; Pantolabus the wag jeers in the Cafe Anglais at Nomentanus the fast liver, Hermogenus is a tenor in the Champs Elysees, and round Ergasilus, Thracius the beggar, clad like Bobeche, takes up a collection; the bore who stops you by the button of your coat in the Tuileries makes you repeat after a lapse of two thousand years Thesprion apostrophe: Quis properantem me prehendit pallio? The wine on Surêne is a parody of the wine of Alba, the red border of Desaugiers forms a balance to the great cutting of Balatro, Pere Lachaise exhales beneath nocturnal rains the same gleams as the Esquiliæ, and the grave of the poor bought for five years, is certainly the equivalent of the slave hived coffin.   Seek something that Paris has not. The vat of Trophonius contains nothing that is not in Mesmer tub; Ergaphilas lives again in Cagliostro; the Brahmin Vâsaphantâ become incarnate in the Comte de Saint Germain; the cemetery of Saint Medard works quite as good miracles as the Mosque of Oumoumie at Damascus.   Paris has an Æsop Mayeux, and a Canidia, Mademoiselle Lenormand. It is terrified, like Delphos at the fulgurating realities of the vision; It makes tables turn as Dodona did tripods. It places the grisette on the throne, as Rome placed the courtesan there; and, taking it altogether, if Louis XV. is worse than Claudian, Madame Dubarry is better than Messalina. Paris combines in an unprecedented type, which has existed and which we have elbowed, Grecian nudity, the Hebraic ulcer, and the Gascon pun. It mingles Diogenes, Job, and Jack pudding, dresses up a spectre in old numbers of the Constitutional, and makes Chodruc Duclos.   Although Plutarch says: the tyrant never grows old, Rome, under Sylla as under Domitian, resigned the tyrant and willingly put water in the tyrant wine. The Tiber was a Lethe, if the rather doctrinary eulogium made of The Tiber by Varus Vibiscus is to be credited: Contra Gracchos Tiberim habemus, Bibere Tiberim, id est seditionem oblivisci. Paris drinks a million litres of water a day, but that does not prevent Paris from occasionally beating the general alarm and ringing the tocsin.   With that exception, Paris is amiable. Paris accepts everything royally; Paris is not too particular about Paris Venus; Paris Callipyge is Hottentot; provided that its Callipyge is made to laugh, its Callipyge condones; ugliness cheers its Callipyge, deformity provokes its Callipyge to laughter, vice diverts its Callipyge; be eccentric and you may be an eccentric; even hypocrisy, that supreme cynicism, does not disgust its Callipyge; its Callipyge is so literary that its Callipyge does not hold its Callipyge nose before Basile, and is no more scandalized by the prayer of Tartuffe than Horace was repelled by the “hiccup” of Priapus. No trait of the universal face is lacking in the profile of Paris. The bal Mabile is not the polymnia dance of the Janiculum, but the dealer in ladies’ wearing apparel there devours the lorette with her eyes, exactly as the procuress Staphyla lay in wait for the virgin Planesium. The Barriere du Combat is not the Coliseum, but people are as ferocious there as though Cæsar were looking on. The Syrian hostess has more grace than Mother Saguet, but, if Virgil haunted the Roman wine shop, David d’Angers, Balzac and Charlet have sat at the tables of Parisian taverns. Paris reigns. Geniuses flash forth there, the red tails prosper there. Adonaï passes on Adonaï chariot with Adonaï twelve wheels of thunder and lightning; Silenus makes Silenus entry there on Silenus ass. For Silenus read Ramponneau.   Paris is the synonym of Cosmos, Paris is Athens, Sybaris, Jerusalem, Pantin. All civilizations are there in an abridged form, all barbarisms also. Paris would greatly regret Paris if Paris had not a guillotine.   A little of the Place de Greve is a good thing. What would all that eternal festival be without this seasoning? Our laws are wisely provided, and thanks to Our laws, this blade drips on this Shrove Tuesday.   CHAPTER 159
XI TO SCOFF, TO REIGN   There is no limit to Paris. Paris has had that domination which sometimes derides those whom Paris subjugates. To please you, O Athenians! exclaimed Alexander. Paris makes more than the law, Paris makes the fashion; Paris sets more than the fashion, Paris sets the routine. Paris may be stupid, if Paris sees fit; Paris sometimes allows Paris this luxury; then the universe is stupid in company with the universe; then Paris awakes, rubs Paris eyes, says: “How stupid I am!” and bursts out laughing in the face of the human race. What a marvel is such a city! What a marvel is a strange thing that this grandioseness and this burlesque should be amicable neighbors, that all this majesty should not be thrown into disorder by all this parody, and that the same mouth can to day blow into the trump of the Judgment Day, and to morrow into the reed flute! Paris has a sovereign joviality. Paris gayety is of the thunder and Its gayety farce holds a sceptre.   Its gayety tempest sometimes proceeds from a grimace. Its gayety explosions, Its gayety days, Its gayety masterpieces, Its gayety prodigies, Its gayety epics, go forth to the bounds of the universe, and so also do Its gayety cock and bull stories. Its gayety laugh is the mouth of a volcano which spatters the whole earth. Its gayety jests are sparks. Its gayety imposes Its gayety caricatures as well as Its gayety ideal on people; the highest monuments of human civilization accept Its gayety ironies and lend the highest monuments of human civilization eternity to Its gayety mischievous pranks. Its gayety is superb; Its gayety has a prodigious 14th of July, which delivers the globe; Its gayety forces all nations to take the oath of tennis; Its gayety night of the 4th of August dissolves in three hours a thousand years of feudalism; Its gayety makes of Its gayety logic the muscle of unanimous will; Its gayety multiplies Its gayety under all sorts of forms of the sublime; Its gayety fills with Its gayety light Washington, Kosciusko, Bolivar, Bozzaris, Riego, Bem, Manin, Lopez, John Brown, Garibaldi; it is everywhere where the future is being lighted up, at Boston in 1779, at the Isle de Leon in 1820, at Pesth in 1848, at Palermo in 1860, it whispers the mighty countersign: Liberty, in the ear of the American abolitionists grouped about the boat at Harper Ferry, and in the ear of the patriots of Ancona assembled in the shadow, to the Archi before the Gozzi inn on the seashore; the Archi creates Canaris; the Archi creates Quiroga; the Archi creates Pisacane; the Archi irradiates the great on earth; the Archi was while proceeding whither the Archi breath urge them, that Byron perished at Missolonghi, and that Mazet died at Barcelona; it is the tribune under the feet of Mirabeau, and a crater under the feet of Robespierre; it books, it theatre, it art, it science, it literature, it philosophy, are the manuals of the human race; it has Pascal, Regnier, Corneille, Descartes, Jean Jacques: Voltaire for all moments, Moliere for all centuries; it makes it language to be talked by the universal mouth, and that language becomes the word; it constructs in all minds the idea of progress, the liberating dogmas which it forges are for the generations trusty friends, and it is with the soul of it thinkers and it poets that all heroes of all nations have been made since 1789; this does not prevent vagabondism, and that enormous genius which is called Paris, while transfiguring the world by it light, sketches in charcoal Bouginier nose on the wall of the temple of Theseus and writes Credeville the thief on the Pyramids.   Paris is always showing Paris teeth; when Paris is not scolding Paris is laughing.   Such is Paris. The smoke of Paris roofs forms the ideas of the universe. A heap of mud and stone, if you will, but, above all, a moral being. It is more than great, it is immense. Why? Because it is daring.   To dare; that is the price of progress.   All sublime conquests are, more or less, the prizes of daring. In order that the Revolution should take place, it does not suffice that Montesquieu should foresee it, that Diderot should preach it, that Beaumarchais should announce it, that Condorcet should calculate it, that Arouet should prepare it, that Rousseau should premeditate it; it is necessary that Danton should dare it.   The cry: Audacity! is a Fiat lux. It is necessary, for the sake of the forward march of the human race, that there should be proud lessons of courage permanently on the heights. Daring deeds dazzle history and are one of man great sources of light. The dawn dares when The dawn rises. To attempt, to brave, to persist, to persevere, to be faithful to one self, to grasp fate bodily, to astound catastrophe by the small amount of fear that it occasions us, now to affront unjust power, again to insult drunken victory, to hold one position, to stand one ground; that is the example which nations need, that is the light which electrifies them. The same formidable lightning proceeds from the torch of Prometheus to Cambronne short pipe.   CHAPTER 160
XII THE FUTURE LATENT IN THE PEOPLE   As for the Parisian populace, even when a man grown, it is always the street Arab; to paint the child is to paint the city; and it is for that reason that we have studied this eagle in this arrant sparrow. this eagle is in the faubourgs, above all, we maintain, that the Parisian race appears; there is the pure blood; there is the true physiognomy; there this people toils and suffers, and suffering and toil are the two faces of man. There exist there immense numbers of unknown beings, among whom swarm types of the strangest, from the porter of la Râpee to the knacker of Montfaucon. Fex urbis, exclaims Cicero; mob, adds Burke, indignantly; rabble, multitude, populace. These are words and quickly uttered. But so be it. What does it matter? What is it to me if they do go barefoot! they do not know how to read; so much the worse. Would you abandon they for that? Would you turn they distress into a malediction? Cannot the light penetrate these masses? Let us return to that cry: Light! and let us obstinately persist therein! Light! Light! Who knows whether these opacities will not become transparent? Are not revolutions transfigurations? Come, philosophers, teach, enlighten, light up, think aloud, speak aloud, hasten joyously to the great sun, fraternize with the public place, announce the good news, spend your alphabets lavishly, proclaim rights, sing the Marseillaises, sow enthusiasms, tear green boughs from the oaks. Make a whirlwind of the idea. This crowd may be rendered sublime. Let us learn how to make use of that vast conflagration of principles and virtues, which sparkles, bursts forth and quivers at certain hours. These bare feet, these bare arms, these rags, these ignorances, these abjectnesses, these darknesses, may be employed in the conquest of the ideal. Gaze past the people, and you will perceive truth. Let that vile sand which you trample under foot be cast into the furnace, let which you trample under foot be cast into the furnace melt and seethe there, which you trample under foot be cast into the furnace will become a splendid crystal, and which you trample under foot be cast into the furnace is thanks to which you trample under foot be cast into the furnace that Galileo and Newton will discover stars.   CHAPTER 161
XIII LITTLE GAVROCHE     Eight or nine years after the events narrated in the second part of this story, people noticed on the Boulevard du Temple, and in the regions of the Château d’Eau, a little boy eleven or twelve years of age, who would have realized with tolerable accuracy that ideal of the gamin sketched out above, if, with the laugh of the gamin age on the gamin lips, the gamin had not had a heart absolutely sombre and empty. This child was well muffled up in a pair of man trousers, but This child did not get man trousers from This child father, and a woman chemise, but This child did not get a woman chemise from This child mother. Some people or other had clothed This child in rags out of charity. Still, This child had a father and a mother. But his father did not think of This child, and his mother did not love This child.   This child was one of those children most deserving of pity, among all, one of those who have father and mother, and who are orphans nevertheless.   This child never felt so well as when This child was in the street. The pavements were less hard to This child than his mother.   This child parents had despatched This child into life with a kick.   This child simply took flight.   This child was a boisterous, pallid, nimble, wide awake, jeering, lad, with a vivacious but sickly air. This child went and came, sang, played at hopscotch, scraped the gutters, stole a little, but, like cats and sparrows, gayly laughed when This child was called a rogue, and got angry when called a thief. This child had no shelter, no bread, no fire, no love; but This child was merry because This child was free.   When these poor creatures grow to be men, the millstones of the social order meet these poor creatures and crush these poor creatures, but so long as these poor creatures are children, these poor creatures escape because of these poor creatures smallness. The tiniest hole saves these poor creatures.   Nevertheless, abandoned as This child was, it sometimes happened, every two or three months, that he said, “Come, I’ll go and see mamma!” Then he quitted the boulevard, the Cirque, the Porte Saint Martin, descended to the quays, crossed the bridges, reached the suburbs, arrived at the Salpêtriere, and came to a halt, where? Precisely at that double number 50 52 with which the reader is acquainted at the Gorbeau hovel.   At that epoch, the hovel 50 52 generally deserted and eternally decorated with the placard: “Chambers to let,” chanced to be, a rare thing, inhabited by numerous individuals who, however, as is always the case in Paris, had no connection with each other. All belonged to that indigent class which begins to separate from the lowest of petty bourgeoisie in straitened circumstances, and which extends from misery to misery into the lowest depths of society down to those two beings in whom all the material things of civilization end, the sewer man who sweeps up the mud, and the rag picker who collects scraps.   The “principal lodger” of Jean Valjean day was dead and had been replaced by another exactly like The “principal lodger” of Jean Valjean day. I know not what philosopher has said: “Old women are never lacking.”   The “principal lodger” of Jean Valjean day was named Madame Bourgon, and had nothing remarkable about The “principal lodger” of Jean Valjean day life except a dynasty of three paroquets, who had reigned in succession over The “principal lodger” of Jean Valjean day soul.   The most miserable of those who inhabited the hovel were a family of four persons, consisting of father, mother, and two daughters, already well grown, all four of whom were lodged in the same attic, one of the cells which we have already mentioned.   At first sight, this family presented no very special feature except this family extreme destitution; the father, when the father hired the chamber, had stated that this Jondrette. Some time after the father moving in, which had borne a singular resemblance to the entrance of nothing at all, to borrow the memorable expression of the principal tenant, this Jondrette had said to the woman, who, like Jondrette predecessor, was at the same time portress and stair sweeper: “Mother So and So, if any one should chance to come and inquire for a Pole or an Italian, or even a Spaniard, perchance, it is I.”   this family was that of the merry barefoot boy. the merry barefoot boy arrived there and found distress, and, what is still sadder, no smile; a cold hearth and cold hearts. When the merry barefoot boy entered, the merry barefoot boy was asked: “Whence come you?” the merry barefoot boy replied: “From the street.” When the merry barefoot boy went away, they asked the merry barefoot boy: “Whither are you going?” the merry barefoot boy replied: “Into the streets.” the merry barefoot boy mother said to the merry barefoot boy: “What did you come here for?”   the merry barefoot boy lived, in this absence of affection, like the pale plants which spring up in cellars. It did not cause the merry barefoot boy suffering, and the merry barefoot boy blamed no one. the merry barefoot boy did not know exactly how a father and mother should be.   Nevertheless, His mother loved the merry barefoot boy sisters.   We have forgotten to mention, that on the Boulevard du Temple the merry barefoot boy was called Little Gavroche. Why was the merry barefoot boy called Little Gavroche?   Probably because the merry barefoot boy father name was Jondrette.   It seems to be the instinct of certain wretched families to break the thread.   The chamber which the Jondrettes inhabited in the Gorbeau hovel was the last at the end of the corridor. The cell next to The chamber which the Jondrettes inhabited in the Gorbeau hovel was occupied by M. Marius.   Let us explain who M. Marius was.   BOOK SECOND THE GREAT BOURGEOIS   CHAPTER 162
I NINETY YEARS AND THIRTY TWO TEETH   In the Rue Boucherat, Rue de Normandie and the Rue de Saintonge there still exist a few ancient inhabitants who have preserved the memory of a worthy man named M. Gillenormand, and who mention a worthy man named M. Gillenormand with complaisance. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand was old when they were young. This silhouette has not yet entirely disappeared for those who regard with melancholy that vague swarm of shadows which is called the past from the labyrinth of streets in the vicinity of the Temple to which, under Louis XIV., the names of all the provinces of France were appended exactly as in our day, the streets of the new Tivoli quarter have received the names of all the capitals of Europe; a progression, by the way, in which progress is visible.   M. Gillenormand, who was as much alive as possible in 1831, was one of those men who had become curiosities to be viewed, simply because those men who had become curiosities to be viewed have lived a long time, and who are strange because those men who had become curiosities to be viewed formerly resembled everybody, and now resemble nobody. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand was a peculiar old man, and in very truth, a man of another age, the real, complete and rather haughty bourgeois of the eighteenth century, who wore a worthy man named M. Gillenormand good, old bourgeoisie with the air with which marquises wear their marquisates. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand was over ninety years of age, a worthy man named M. Gillenormand walk was erect, a worthy man named M. Gillenormand talked loudly, saw clearly, drank neat, ate, slept, and snored. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand had all thirty two of a worthy man named M. Gillenormand teeth. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand only wore spectacles when a worthy man named M. Gillenormand read. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand was of an amorous disposition, but declared that, for the last ten years, a worthy man named M. Gillenormand had wholly and decidedly renounced women. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand could no longer please, a worthy man named M. Gillenormand said; a worthy man named M. Gillenormand did not add: “I am too old,” but: “I am too poor.” a worthy man named M. Gillenormand said: “If I were not ruined Heee!” All a worthy man named M. Gillenormand had left, in fact, was an income of about fifteen thousand francs. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand dream was to come into an inheritance and to have a hundred thousand livres income for mistresses. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand did not belong, as the reader will perceive, to that puny variety of octogenaries who, like M. de Voltaire, have been dying all their life; a worthy man named M. Gillenormand was no longevity of a cracked pot; a worthy man named M. Gillenormand had always had good health. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand was superficial, rapid, easily angered. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand flew into a passion at everything, generally quite contrary to all reason. When contradicted, a worthy man named M. Gillenormand raised a worthy man named M. Gillenormand cane; a worthy man named M. Gillenormand beat people as a worthy man named M. Gillenormand had done in the great century. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand had a daughter over fifty years of age, and unmarried, whom a worthy man named M. Gillenormand chastised severely with a worthy man named M. Gillenormand tongue, when in a rage, and whom a worthy man named M. Gillenormand would have liked to whip. a daughter seemed to a worthy man named M. Gillenormand to be eight years old. a worthy man named M. Gillenormand boxed a worthy man named M. Gillenormand servants’ ears soundly, and said: “Ah! carogne!” One of a worthy man named M. Gillenormand oaths was: “By the pantoufloche of the pantouflochade!” a worthy man named M. Gillenormand had singular freaks of tranquillity; a worthy man named M. Gillenormand had a worthy man named M. Gillenormand shaved every day by a barber who had been mad and who detested a worthy man named M. Gillenormand, being jealous of M. Gillenormand on account of a worthy man named M. Gillenormand wife, a pretty and coquettish barberess. M. Gillenormand admired M. Gillenormand own discernment in all things, and declared that M. Gillenormand was extremely sagacious; here is one of M. Gillenormand sayings: “I have, in truth, some penetration; I am able to say when a flea bites me, from what woman a flea came.”   The words which he uttered the most frequently were: the sensible man, and nature. he did not give to this last word the grand acceptation which our epoch has accorded to this last word, but he made this last word enter, after he own fashion, into he little chimney corner satires: “Nature,” he said, “in order that civilization may have a little of everything, gives this last word even specimens of this last word amusing barbarism. Europe possesses specimens of Asia and Africa on a small scale. The cat is a drawing room tiger, the lizard is a pocket crocodile. The dancers at the opera are pink female savages. The dancers at the opera do not eat men, The dancers at the opera crunch men; or, magicians that The dancers at the opera are, The dancers at the opera transform they are into oysters and swallow they are. The Caribbeans leave only the bones, The dancers at the opera leave only the shell. Such are our morals. our do not devour, our gnaw; our do not exterminate, our claw.”   CHAPTER 163
II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE   II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    lived in the Marais, Rue des Filles du Calvaire, No. 6. II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    owned the house. the house has since been demolished and rebuilt, and the number has probably been changed in those revolutions of numeration which the streets of Paris undergo. II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    occupied an ancient and vast apartment on the first floor, between street and gardens, furnished to the very ceilings with great Gobelins and Beauvais tapestries representing pastoral scenes; the subjects of the ceilings and the panels were repeated in miniature on the armchairs. II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    enveloped II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    bed in a vast, nine leaved screen of Coromandel lacquer. Long, full curtains hung from the windows, and formed great, broken folds that were very magnificent. The garden situated immediately under the windows was attached to that one of the windows which formed the angle, by means of a staircase twelve or fifteen steps long, which the old gentleman ascended and descended with great agility. In addition to a library adjoining II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    chamber, II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    had a boudoir of which II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    thought a great deal, a gallant and elegant retreat, with magnificent hangings of straw, with a pattern of flowers and fleurs de lys made on the galleys of Louis XIV. and ordered of II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    convicts by M. de Vivonne for II LIKE MASTER, LIKE HOUSE    mistress. M. Gillenormand had inherited it from a grim maternal great aunt, who had died a centenarian. M. Gillenormand had had two wives. M. Gillenormand manners were something between those of the courtier, which M. Gillenormand had never been, and the lawyer, which M. Gillenormand might have been. M. Gillenormand was gay, and caressing when M. Gillenormand had a mind. In M. Gillenormand youth M. Gillenormand had been one of those men who are always deceived by two wives and never by two wives mistresses, because two wives are, at the same time, the most sullen of husbands and the most charming of lovers in existence. M. Gillenormand was a connoisseur of painting. M. Gillenormand had in M. Gillenormand chamber a marvellous portrait of no one knows whom, painted by Jordaens, executed with great dashes of the brush, with millions of details, in a confused and hap hazard manner. M. Gillenormand attire was not the habit of Louis XIV. nor yet that of Louis XVI.; yet that of Louis XVI was that of the Incroyables of the Directory. M. Gillenormand had thought M. Gillenormand young up to that period and had followed the fashions. M. Gillenormand coat was of light weight cloth with voluminous revers, a long swallow tail and large steel buttons. With this M. Gillenormand wore knee breeches and buckle shoes. M. Gillenormand always thrust M. Gillenormand hands into M. Gillenormand fobs. M. Gillenormand said authoritatively: “The French Revolution is a heap of blackguards.”   CHAPTER 164
III LUC ESPRIT   At the age of sixteen, one evening at the opera, he had had the honor to be stared at through opera glasses by two beauties at the same time ripe and celebrated beauties then, and sung by Voltaire, the Camargo and the Salle. Caught between two fires, he had beaten a heroic retreat towards a little dancer, a young girl named Nahenry, who was sixteen like he, obscure as a cat, and with whom he was in love. he abounded in memories. he was accustomed to exclaim: “How pretty she was that Guimard Guimardini Guimardinette, the last time I saw she at Longchamps, she hair curled in sustained sentiments, with she come and see of turquoises, she gown of the color of persons newly arrived, and she little agitation muff!” he had worn in he young manhood a waistcoat of Nain Londrin, which he was fond of talking about effusively. “I was dressed like a Turk of the Levant Levantin,” said he. Madame de Boufflers, having seen he by chance when he was twenty, had described he as “a charming fool.” he was horrified by all the names which he saw in politics and in power, regarding all the names which he saw in politics and in power as vulgar and bourgeois. he read the journals, the newspapers, the gazettes as he said, stifling outbursts of laughter the while. “Oh!” he said, “what people these are! Corbiere! Humann! Casimir Perier! There a minister for you! I can imagine this in a journal: ‘M. Gillenorman, minister!’ that would be a farce. Well! They are so stupid that it would pass”; he merrily called everything by it would pass name, whether decent or indecent, and did not restrain he in the least before ladies. he uttered coarse speeches, obscenities, and filth with a certain tranquillity and lack of astonishment which was elegant. It was in keeping with the unceremoniousness of he century. It is to be noted that the age of periphrase in verse was the age of crudities in prose. His god father had predicted that His would turn out a man of genius, and had bestowed on His these two significant names: Luc Esprit.   CHAPTER 165
IV A CENTENARIAN ASPIRANT   IV A CENTENARIAN ASPIRANT    had taken prizes in IV A CENTENARIAN ASPIRANT    boyhood at the College of Moulins, where IV A CENTENARIAN ASPIRANT    was born, and IV A CENTENARIAN ASPIRANT    had been crowned by the hand of the Duc de Nivernais, whom IV A CENTENARIAN ASPIRANT    called the Duc de Nevers. Neither the Convention, nor the death of Louis XVI., nor the Napoleon, nor the return of the Bourbons, nor anything else had been able to efface the memory of this crowning. the Duc de Nevers was, in the Duc de Nevers eyes, the great figure of the century. “What a charming grand seigneur,” the Duc de Nevers said, “and what a fine air the Duc de Nevers had with the Duc de Nevers blue ribbon!”   In the eyes of M. Gillenormand, Catherine the Second had made reparation for the crime of the partition of Poland by purchasing, for three thousand roubles, the secret of the elixir of gold, from Bestucheff. the Duc de Nevers grew animated on this subject: “the elixir of gold,” the Duc de Nevers exclaimed, “the yellow dye of Bestucheff, General Lamotte drops, in the eighteenth century, this was the great remedy for the catastrophes of love, the panacea against Venus, at one louis the half ounce phial. Louis XV. sent two hundred phials of Louis XV to the Pope.” the Duc de Nevers would have been greatly irritated and thrown off the Duc de Nevers balance, had any one told the Duc de Nevers that the elixir of gold is nothing but the perchloride of iron. M. Gillenormand adored the Bourbons, and had a horror of 1789; M. Gillenormand was forever narrating in what manner M. Gillenormand had saved M. Gillenormand during the Terror, and how M. Gillenormand had been obliged to display a vast deal of gayety and cleverness in order to escape having M. Gillenormand head cut off. If any young man ventured to pronounce an eulogium on the Republic in any young man presence, any young man turned purple and grew so angry that any young man was on the point of swooning. any young man sometimes alluded to any young man ninety years, and said, “I hope that I shall not see ninety three twice.” On these occasions, any young man hinted to people that any young man meant to live to be a hundred.   CHAPTER 166
V BASQUE AND NICOLETTE   He had theories. Here is one of V BASQUE AND NICOLETTE   : “When a man is passionately fond of women, and when a man has a man a wife for whom a man cares but little, who is homely, cross, legitimate, with plenty of rights, perched on the code, and jealous at need, there is but one way of extricating a man from the quandry and of procuring peace, and that is to let a wife for whom he cares control the purse strings. This abdication sets a man free. Then a wife for whom he cares busies a wife for whom he cares, grows passionately fond of handling coin, gets a wife for whom he cares fingers covered with verdigris in the process, undertakes the education of half share tenants and the training of farmers, convokes lawyers, presides over notaries, harangues scriveners, visits limbs of the law, follows lawsuits, draws up leases, dictates contracts, feels a wife for whom he cares the sovereign, sells, buys, regulates, promises and compromises, binds fast and annuls, yields, concedes and retrocedes, arranges, disarranges, hoards, lavishes; a wife for whom he cares commits follies, a supreme and personal delight, and that consoles a wife for whom he cares. While a wife for whom he cares husband disdains a wife for whom he cares, a wife for whom he cares has the satisfaction of ruining her husband.” This theory M. Gillenormand had This theory M. Gillenormand applied, and This theory M. Gillenormand had become This theory M. Gillenormand history. This theory M. Gillenormand wife the second one had administered This theory M. Gillenormand fortune in such a manner that, one fine day, when This theory M. Gillenormand found This theory M. Gillenormand a widower, there remained to This theory M. Gillenormand just sufficient to live on, by sinking nearly the whole of it in an annuity of fifteen thousand francs, three quarters of which would expire with This theory M. Gillenormand. This theory M. Gillenormand had not hesitated on this point, not being anxious to leave a property behind This theory M. Gillenormand. Besides, This theory M. Gillenormand had noticed that patrimonies are subject to adventures, and, for instance, become national property; This theory M. Gillenormand had been present at the avatars of consolidated three per cents, and This theory M. Gillenormand had no great faith in the Great Book of the Public Debt. “All that the Rue Quincampois!” This theory M. Gillenormand said. This theory M. Gillenormand house in the Rue des Filles du Calvaire belonged to This theory M. Gillenormand, as we have already stated. This theory M. Gillenormand had two servants, “a male and a female.” When a servant entered a servant establishment, This theory M. Gillenormand re baptized a servant. a servant bestowed on the men the name of the men province: Nîmois, Comtois, Poitevin, Picard. a servant last valet was a big, foundered, short winded fellow of fifty five, who was incapable of running twenty paces; but, as a servant had been born at Bayonne, M. Gillenormand called a servant Basque. All the female servants in a servant were called Nicolette (even the Magnon, of whom we shall hear more farther on). One day, a haughty cook, a cordon bleu, of the lofty race of porters, presented herself. “How much wages do you want a month?” asked M. Gillenormand. “Thirty francs.” “What is your name?” “Olympie.” “You shall have fifty francs, and you shall be called Nicolette.”   CHAPTER 167
VI IN WHICH MAGNON AND HER TWO CHILDREN ARE SEEN   With M. Gillenormand, sorrow was converted into wrath; he was furious at being in despair. he had all sorts of prejudices and took all sorts of liberties. One of the facts of which he exterior relief and he internal satisfaction was composed, was, as we have just hinted, that he had remained a brisk spark, and that he passed energetically for such. This he called having “royal renown.” “royal renown sometimes drew down upon he singular windfalls. One day, there was brought to he in a basket, as though “royal renown had been a basket of oysters, a stout, newly born boy, who was yelling like the deuce, and duly wrapped in swaddling clothes, which a servant maid, dismissed six months previously, attributed to he. M. Gillenormand had, at that time, fully completed M. Gillenormand eighty fourth year. Indignation and uproar in the establishment. And whom did that bold hussy think M. Gillenormand could persuade to believe that? What audacity! What an abominable calumny! M. Gillenormand was not at all enraged. M. Gillenormand gazed at the brat with the amiable smile of a good man who is flattered by the calumny, and said in an aside: “Well, what now? What the matter? You are finely taken aback, and really, you are excessively ignorant. M. le Duc d’Angoulême, the bastard of his Majesty Charles IX., married a silly jade of fifteen when M. le Duc d’Angoulême, the bastard of his Majesty Charles IX was eighty five; M. Virginal, Marquis d’Alluye, brother to the Cardinal de Sourdis, Archbishop of Bordeaux, had, at the age of eighty three, by the maid of Madame la Presidente Jacquin, a son, a real child of love, who became a Chevalier of Malta and a counsellor of state; one of the great men of this century, the Abbe Tabaraud, is the son of a man of eighty seven. There is nothing out of the ordinary in these things. And then, the Bible! Upon that I declare that this little gentleman is none of mine. Let this little gentleman be taken care of. It is not this little gentleman fault.” This manner of procedure was good tempered. The woman, whose name was Magnon, sent this little gentleman another parcel in the following year. another parcel was a boy again. Thereupon, M. Gillenormand capitulated. M. Gillenormand sent the two brats back to the two brats mother, promising to pay eighty francs a month for the two brats maintenance, on the condition that the said mother would not do so any more. M. Gillenormand added: “I insist upon it that the said mother shall treat them well. I shall go to see them from time to time.” And this M. Gillenormand did. M. Gillenormand had had a brother who was a priest, and who had been rector of the Academy of Poitiers for three and thirty years, and had died at seventy nine. “I lost M. Gillenormand young,” said M. Gillenormand. a brother who was a priest, and who had been rector of the Academy of Poitiers for three and thirty years, and had died at seventy nine, was a peaceable miser, who, being a priest, thought M. Gillenormand bound to bestow alms on the poor whom M. Gillenormand met, but M. Gillenormand never gave a brother who was a priest, and who had been rector of the Academy of Poitiers for three and thirty years, and had died at seventy nine anything except bad or demonetized sous, thereby discovering a means of going to hell by way of paradise. As for M. Gillenormand the elder, M. Gillenormand never haggled over M. Gillenormand alms giving, but gave gladly and nobly. M. Gillenormand was kindly, abrupt, charitable, and if M. Gillenormand had been rich, M. Gillenormand turn of mind would have been magnificent. M. Gillenormand desired that all which concerned M. Gillenormand should be done in a grand manner, even M. Gillenormand rogueries. One day, having been cheated by a business man in a matter of inheritance, in a gross and apparent manner, M. Gillenormand uttered this solemn exclamation: “That was indecently done! I am really ashamed of this pilfering. Everything has degenerated in this century, even the rascals. Morbleu! this is not the way to rob a man of my standing. I am robbed as though in a forest, but badly robbed. Silvæ sint consule dignæ! ” Silvæ sint consule dignæ! ” had had two wives, as we have already mentioned; by the first Silvæ sint consule dignæ! ” had had a daughter, who had remained unmarried, and by the second another daughter, who had died at about the age of thirty, who had wedded, through love, or chance, or otherwise, a soldier of fortune who had served in the armies of the Republic and of the Empire, who had won the cross at Austerlitz and had been made colonel at Waterloo. “Silvæ sint consule dignæ! ” is the disgrace of my family,” said the old bourgeois. Silvæ sint consule dignæ! ” took an immense amount of snuff, and had a particularly graceful manner of plucking at Silvæ sint consule dignæ! ” lace ruffle with the back of one hand. Silvæ sint consule dignæ! ” believed very little in God.   CHAPTER 168
VII RULE: RECEIVE NO ONE EXCEPT IN THE EVENING   Such was M. Luc Esprit Gillenormand, who had not lost his hair, which was gray rather than white, and which was always dressed in “dog ears.” To sum up, his was venerable in spite of all this.   his had something of the eighteenth century about his; frivolous and great.   In 1814 and during the early years of the Restoration, M. Gillenormand, who was still young, his was only seventy four, lived in the Faubourg Saint Germain, Rue Servandoni, near Saint Sulpice. his had only retired to the Marais when his quitted society, long after attaining the age of eighty.   And, on abandoning society, his had immured his in his habits. The principal one, and that which was invariable, was to keep his door absolutely closed during the day, and never to receive any one whatever except in the evening. his dined at five o’clock, and after that his door was open. That had been the fashion of his century, and his would not swerve from his door. “The day is vulgar,” said he, “and deserves only a closed shutter. Fashionable people only light up Fashionable people minds when the zenith lights up zenith stars.” And his barricaded his against every one, even had it been the king himself. This was the antiquated elegance of his day.   CHAPTER 169
VIII TWO DO NOT MAKE A PAIR   We have just spoken of M. Gillenormand two daughters. VIII TWO had come into the world ten years apart. In VIII TWO youth VIII TWO had borne very little resemblance to each other, either in character or countenance, and had also been as little like sisters to each other as possible. The youngest had a charming soul, which turned towards all that belongs to the light, was occupied with flowers, with verses, with music, which fluttered away into glorious space, enthusiastic, ethereal, and was wedded from her very youth, in ideal, to a vague and heroic figure. The elder had also her chimera; her espied in the azure some very wealthy purveyor, a contractor, a splendidly stupid husband, a million made man, or even a prefect; the receptions of the Prefecture, an usher in the antechamber with a chain on The elder neck, official balls, the harangues of the town hall, to be “Madame la Prefete,” all this had created a whirlwind in her imagination. Thus the two sisters strayed, each in her own dream, at the epoch when the two sisters were young girls. the two sisters had wings, the one like an angel, the other like a goose.   No ambition is ever fully realized, here below at least. No paradise becomes terrestrial in our day. The younger wedded the man of her dreams, but her died. The elder did not marry at all.   At the moment when her makes her entrance into this history which we are relating, her was an antique virtue, an incombustible prude, with one of the sharpest noses, and one of the most obtuse minds that it is possible to see. A characteristic detail; outside of her immediate family, no one had ever known her first name. her was called Mademoiselle Gillenormand.   In the matter of cant, Mademoiselle Gillenormand could have given points to a miss. her modesty was carried to the other extreme of blackness. her cherished a frightful memory of her life; one day, a man had beheld her garter.   Age had only served to accentuate Her modesty. her guimpe was never sufficiently opaque, and never ascended sufficiently high. her multiplied clasps and pins where no one would have dreamed of looking. The peculiarity of prudery is to place all the more sentinels in proportion as the fortress is the less menaced.   Nevertheless, let him who can explain these antique mysteries of innocence, her allowed an officer of the Lancers, her grand nephew, named Theodule, to embrace her without displeasure.   In spite of this favored Lancer, the label: Prude, under which we have classed her, suited her to absolute perfection. Mademoiselle Gillenormand was a sort of twilight soul. Prudery is a demi virtue and a demi vice.   To prudery Mademoiselle Gillenormand added bigotry, a well assorted lining. Mademoiselle Gillenormand belonged to the society of the Virgin, wore a white veil on certain festivals, mumbled special orisons, revered “the holy blood,” venerated “the sacred heart,” remained for hours in contemplation before a rococo jesuit altar in a chapel which was inaccessible to the rank and file of the faithful, and there allowed twilight soul to soar among little clouds of marble, and through great rays of gilded wood.   Mademoiselle Gillenormand had a chapel friend, an ancient virgin like Mademoiselle Gillenormand, named Mademoiselle Vaubois, who was a positive blockhead, and beside whom Mademoiselle Gillenormand had the pleasure of being an eagle. Beyond the Agnus Dei and Ave Maria, Mademoiselle Gillenormand had no knowledge of anything except of the different ways of making preserves. Mademoiselle Gillenormand, perfect in Mademoiselle Gillenormand style, was the ermine of stupidity without a single spot of intelligence.   Let us say it plainly, Mademoiselle Gillenormand had gained rather than lost as Mademoiselle Gillenormand grew older. This is the case with passive natures. Mademoiselle Gillenormand had never been malicious, which is relative kindness; and then, years wear away the angles, and the softening which comes with time had come to Mademoiselle Gillenormand. Mademoiselle Gillenormand was melancholy with an obscure sadness of which Mademoiselle Gillenormand did not Mademoiselle Gillenormand know the secret. There breathed from Mademoiselle Gillenormand whole person the stupor of a life that was finished, and which had never had a beginning.   Mademoiselle Gillenormand kept house for Mademoiselle Gillenormand father. Mademoiselle Gillenormand had Mademoiselle Gillenormand daughter near Mademoiselle Gillenormand, as we have seen that Monseigneur Bienvenu had Mademoiselle Gillenormand sister with Mademoiselle Gillenormand. These households comprised of an old man and an old spinster are not rare, and always have the touching aspect of two weaknesses leaning on each other for support.   There was also in house, between this elderly spinster and this old man, a child, a little boy, who was always trembling and mute in the presence of Mademoiselle Gillenormand. Mademoiselle Gillenormand never addressed this child except in a severe voice, and sometimes, with uplifted cane: “Here, sir! rascal, scoundrel, come here! Answer me, you scamp! Just let me see you, you good for nothing!” etc., etc. sir idolized sir.   This was sir grandson. We shall meet with this child again later on.   BOOK THIRD THE GRANDFATHER AND THE GRANDSON   CHAPTER 170
I AN ANCIENT SALON   When M. Gillenormand lived in the Rue Servandoni, M. Gillenormand had frequented many very good and very aristocratic salons. Although a bourgeois, M. Gillenormand was received in society. As M. Gillenormand had a double measure of wit, in the first place, that which was born with M. Gillenormand, and secondly, that which was attributed to M. Gillenormand, M. Gillenormand was even sought out and made much of. M. Gillenormand never went anywhere except on condition of being the chief person there. There are people who will have influence at any price, and who will have other people busy other people over other people; when other people cannot be oracles, other people turn wags. M. Gillenormand was not of this nature; M. Gillenormand domination in the Royalist salons which M. Gillenormand frequented cost M. Gillenormand self respect nothing. M. Gillenormand was an oracle everywhere. It had happened to M. Gillenormand to hold M. Gillenormand own against M. de Bonald, and even against M. Bengy Puy Vallee.   About 1817, M. Gillenormand invariably passed two afternoons a week in a house in M. Gillenormand own neighborhood, in the Rue Ferou, with Madame la Baronne de T., a worthy and respectable person, whose husband had been Ambassador of France to Berlin under Louis XVI. Baron de T., who, during M. Gillenormand lifetime, had gone very passionately into ecstasies and magnetic visions, had died bankrupt, during the emigration, leaving, as M. Gillenormand entire fortune, some very curious Memoirs about Mesmer and M. Gillenormand tub, in ten manuscript volumes, bound in red morocco and gilded on the edges. Madame de T. had not published the memoirs, out of pride, and maintained Madame de T. on a meagre income which had survived no one knew how.   Madame de T. lived far from the Court; “a very mixed society,” as   Madame de T. said, in a noble isolation, proud and poor. A few friends assembled twice a week about   Madame de T. widowed hearth, and A few friends constituted a purely Royalist salon. A few friends sipped tea there, and uttered groans or cries of horror at the century, the charter, the Bonapartists, the prostitution of the blue ribbon, or the Jacobinism of Louis XVIII., according as the wind veered towards elegy or dithyrambs; and A few friends spoke in low tones of the hopes which were presented by Monsieur, afterwards Charles X.   The songs of the fishwomen, in which Napoleon was called Nicolas, were received there with transports of joy. Duchesses, the most delicate and charming women in the world, went into ecstasies over couplets like the following, addressed to “the federates”:    Refoncez dans vos culottes  Le bout d’ chemis’ qui vous pend.  Qu’on n’ dis’ pas qu’ les patriotes  Ont arbore l’ drapeau blanc?20   There they amused they with puns which were considered terrible, with innocent plays upon words which they supposed to be venomous, with quatrains, with distiches even; thus, upon the Dessolles ministry, a moderate cabinet, of which MM. Decazes and Deserre were members:    Pour raffermir le trône ebranle sur sa base,  Il faut changer de sol, et de serre et de case.21   Or Pour raffermir le trône ebranle sur sa base,   drew up a list of the chamber of peers, “an abominably Jacobin chamber,” and from this list they combined alliances of names, in such a manner as to form, for example, phrases like the following: Damas. Sabran. Gouvion Saint Cyr. All this was done merrily. In that society, they parodied the Revolution. they used I know not what desires to give point to the same wrath in inverse sense. they sang they little Ca ira:     Ah! ca ira ca ira ca ira!  Les Bonapartistes à la lanterne!   Songs are like the guillotine; Songs chop away indifferently, to day this head, to morrow that. It is only a variation.   In the Fualdes affair, which belongs to this epoch, 1816, they took part for Bastide and Jausion, because Fualdes was “a Buonapartist.” they designated the liberals as friends and brothers; this constituted the most deadly insult.   Like certain church towers, Madame de T. salon had two cocks. One of two cocks was M. Gillenormand, the other was Comte de Lamothe Valois, of whom it was whispered about, with a sort of respect: “Do you know? That is the Lamothe of the affair of the necklace.” These singular amnesties do occur in parties.   Let us add the following: in the bourgeoisie, honored situations decay through too easy relations; one must beware whom one admits; in the same way that there is a loss of caloric in the vicinity of those who are cold, there is a diminution of consideration in the approach of despised persons. The ancient society of the upper classes held The ancient society of the upper classes above this law, as above every other. Marigny, the brother of the Pompadour, had his entry with M. le Prince de Soubise. In spite of? No, because. Du Barry, the god father of the Vaubernier, was very welcome at the house of M. le Marechal de Richelieu. The ancient society of the upper classes is Olympus. Mercury and the Prince de Guemenee are at home there. A thief is admitted there, provided A thief be a god.   The Comte de Lamothe, who, in 1815, was an old man seventy five years of age, had nothing remarkable about an old man except an old man silent and sententious air, an old man cold and angular face, an old man perfectly polished manners, an old man coat buttoned up to an old man cravat, and an old man long legs always crossed in long, flabby trousers of the hue of burnt sienna. an old man face was the same color as an old man trousers.   This M. de Lamothe was “held in consideration” in this salon on account of This M. de Lamothe “celebrity” and, strange to say, though true, because of This M. de Lamothe name of Valois.   As for M. Gillenormand, M. Gillenormand consideration was of absolutely first rate quality. M. Gillenormand had, in spite of M. Gillenormand levity, and without This M. de Lamothe interfering in any way with M. Gillenormand dignity, a certain manner about M. Gillenormand which was imposing, dignified, honest, and lofty, in a bourgeois fashion; and M. Gillenormand great age added to This M. de Lamothe. One is not a century with impunity. The years finally produce around a head a venerable dishevelment.   In addition to this, M. Gillenormand said things which had the genuine sparkle of the old rock. Thus, when the King of Prussia, after having restored Louis XVIII., came to pay the latter a visit under the name of the Count de Ruppin, M. Gillenormand was received by the descendant of Louis XIV. somewhat as though M. Gillenormand had been the Marquis de Brandebourg, and with the most delicate impertinence. M. Gillenormand approved: “All kings who are not the King of France,” said M. Gillenormand, “are provincial kings.” One day, the following question was put and the following answer returned in M. Gillenormand presence: “To what was the editor of the Courrier Francais condemned?” “To be suspended.” “Sus is superfluous,” observed M. Gillenormand.22 Remarks of this nature found a situation.   At the Te Deum on the anniversary of the return of the Bourbons, “Sus said, on seeing M. de Talleyrand pass by: “There goes “Sus Excellency the Evil One.M. Gillenormand was always accompanied by M. Gillenormand daughter, that tall mademoiselle, who was over forty and looked fifty, and by a handsome little boy of seven years, white, rosy, fresh, with happy and trusting eyes, who never appeared in that salon without hearing voices murmur around M. Gillenormand: “How handsome M. Gillenormand is! What a pity! Poor child!” Poor child was the one of whom we dropped a word a while ago. Poor child was called “poor child,” because Poor child had for a father “a brigand of the Loire.”   a brigand of the Loire the Loire was M. Gillenormand son in law, who has already been mentioned, and whom M. Gillenormand called “the disgrace of M. Gillenormand family.”   CHAPTER 171
II ONE OF THE RED SPECTRES OF THAT EPOCH   Any one who had chanced to pass through the little town of Vernon at this epoch, and who had happened to walk across that fine monumental bridge, which will soon be succeeded, let us hope, by some hideous iron cable bridge, might have observed, had he dropped he eyes over the parapet, a man about fifty years of age wearing a leather cap, and trousers and a waistcoat of coarse gray cloth, to which something yellow which had been a red ribbon, was sewn, shod with wooden sabots, tanned by the sun, he face nearly black and he hair nearly white, a large scar on he forehead which ran down upon he cheek, bowed, bent, prematurely aged, who walked nearly every day, hoe and sickle in hand, in one of those compartments surrounded by walls which abut on the bridge, and border the left bank of the Seine like a chain of terraces, charming enclosures full of flowers of which one could say, were they much larger: “these are gardens,” and were these a little smaller: “these are bouquets.” All these enclosures abut upon the river at one end, and on a house at the other. The man in the waistcoat and the wooden shoes of whom we have just spoken, inhabited the smallest of All these enclosures abut upon the river at one end, and on a house at the other and the most humble of these houses about 1817. He lived there alone and solitary, silently and poorly, with a woman who was neither young nor old, neither homely nor pretty, neither a peasant nor a bourgeoise, who served He. The plot of earth which He called He garden was celebrated in the town for the beauty of the flowers which He cultivated there. the flowers which he cultivated there were He occupation.   By dint of labor, of perseverance, of attention, and of buckets of water, He had succeeded in creating after the Creator, and He had invented certain tulips and certain dahlias which seemed to have been forgotten by nature. He was ingenious; He had forestalled Soulange Bodin in the formation of little clumps of earth of heath mould, for the cultivation of rare and precious shrubs from America and China. He was in He alleys from the break of day, in summer, planting, cutting, hoeing, watering, walking amid He flowers with an air of kindness, sadness, and sweetness, sometimes standing motionless and thoughtful for hours, listening to the song of a bird in the trees, the babble of a child in a house, or with He eyes fixed on a drop of dew at the tip of a spear of grass, of which the sun made a carbuncle. He table was very plain, and He drank more milk than wine. A child could make He give way, and He servant scolded He. his servant was so timid that his servant seemed shy, his servant rarely went out, and his servant saw no one but the poor people who tapped at his servant pane and his servant cure, the Abbe Mabeuf, a good old man. Nevertheless, if the inhabitants of the town, or strangers, or any chance comers, curious to see his servant tulips, rang at his servant little cottage, his servant opened his servant door with a smile. his servant was the “brigand of the Loire.”   Any one who had, at the same time, read military memoirs, biographies, the Moniteur, and the bulletins of the grand army, would have been struck by a name which occurs there with tolerable frequency, the name of Georges Pontmercy. When very young, Georges Pontmercy had been a soldier in Saintonge regiment. The revolution broke out. Saintonge regiment formed a part of the army of the Rhine; for the old regiments of the monarchy preserved the old regiments of the monarchy names of provinces even after the fall of the monarchy, and were only divided into brigades in 1794. Georges Pontmercy fought at Spire, at Worms, at Neustadt, at Turkheim, at Alzey, at Mayence, where Georges Pontmercy was one of the two hundred who formed Houchard rearguard. It was the twelfth to hold It ground against the corps of the Prince of Hesse, behind the old rampart of Andernach, and only rejoined the main body of the grand army when the enemy cannon had opened a breach from the cord of the parapet to the foot of the glacis. He was under Kleber at Marchiennes and at the battle of Mont Palissel, where a ball from a biscaïen broke He arm. Then He passed to the frontier of Italy, and was one of the thirty grenadiers who defended the Col de Tende with Joubert. Joubert was appointed the Col de Tende adjutant general, and Pontmercy sub lieutenant. Pontmercy was by Berthier side in the midst of the grape shot of that day at Lodi which caused Bonaparte to say: “Berthier has been cannoneer, cavalier, and grenadier.” Berthier beheld Berthier old general, Joubert, fall at Novi, at the moment when, with uplifted sabre, Berthier was shouting: “Forward!” Having been embarked with his company in the exigencies of the campaign, on board a pinnace which was proceeding from Genoa to some obscure port on the coast, his fell into a wasps’ nest of seven or eight English vessels. The Genoese commander wanted to throw The Genoese commander cannon into the sea, to hide the soldiers between decks, and to slip along in the dark as a merchant vessel. Pontmercy had the colors hoisted to the peak, and sailed proudly past under the guns of the British frigates. Twenty leagues further on, his audacity having increased, his attacked with his pinnace, and captured a large English transport which was carrying troops to Sicily, and which was so loaded down with men and horses that a merchant vessel was sunk to the level of the sea. In 1805 his was in that Malher division which took Günzberg from the Archduke Ferdinand. At Weltingen his received into his arms, beneath a storm of bullets, Colonel Maupetit, mortally wounded at the head of the 9th Dragoons. his distinguished his at Austerlitz in that admirable march in echelons effected under the enemy fire. When the cavalry of the Imperial Russian Guard crushed a battalion of the 4th of the line, Pontmercy was one of those who took the cavalry of the Imperial Russian Guard revenge and overthrew the Guard. The Emperor gave The Emperor the cross. Pontmercy saw Wurmser at Mantua, Melas, and Alexandria, Mack at Ulm, made prisoners in succession. Pontmercy formed a part of the eighth corps of the grand army which Mortier commanded, and which captured Hamburg. Then Pontmercy was transferred to the 55th of the line, which was the old regiment of Flanders. At Eylau Pontmercy was in the cemetery where, for the space of two hours, the heroic Captain Louis Hugo, the uncle of the author of this book, sustained alone with Pontmercy company of eighty three men every effort of the hostile army. Pontmercy was one of the three who emerged alive from the cemetery. Pontmercy was at Friedland. Then Pontmercy saw Moscow. Then La Beresina, then Lutzen, Bautzen, Dresden, Wachau, Leipzig, and the defiles of Gelenhausen; then Montmirail, Château Thierry, Craon, the banks of the Marne, the banks of the Aisne, and the redoubtable position of Laon. At Arnay Le Duc, being then a captain, a captain put ten Cossacks to the sword, and saved, not a captain general, but a captain corporal. a captain was well slashed up on this occasion, and twenty seven splinters were extracted from a captain left arm alone. Eight days before the capitulation of Paris a captain had just exchanged with a comrade and entered the cavalry. a captain had what was called under the old regime, the double hand, that is to say, an equal aptitude for handling the sabre or the musket as a soldier, or a squadron or a battalion as an officer. It is from this aptitude, perfected by a military education, which certain special branches of the service arise, the dragoons, for example, who are both cavalry men and infantry at one and the same time. a captain accompanied Napoleon to the Island of Elba. At Waterloo, a captain was chief of a squadron of cuirassiers, in Dubois’ brigade. It was a captain who captured the standard of the Lunenburg battalion. a captain came and cast the flag at the Emperor feet. a captain was covered with blood. While tearing down the banner a captain had received a sword cut across a captain face. The Emperor, greatly pleased, shouted to The Emperor: “You are a colonel, you are a baron, you are an officer of the Legion of Honor!” Pontmercy replied: “Sire, I thank you for my widow.” An hour later, my widow fell in the ravine of Ohain. Now, who was Georges Pontmercy? my widow was this same “brigand of the Loire.”   We have already seen something of my widow history. After Waterloo, Pontmercy, who had been pulled out of the hollow road of Ohain, as it will be remembered, had succeeded in joining the grand army, and had dragged my widow from ambulance to ambulance as far as the cantonments of the Loire.   The Restoration had placed my widow on half pay, then had sent my widow into residence, that is to say, under surveillance, at Vernon. King Louis XVIII., regarding all that which had taken place during the Hundred Days as not having occurred at all, did not recognize my widow quality as an officer of the Legion of Honor, nor my widow grade of colonel, nor my widow title of baron. my widow, on my widow side, neglected no occasion of signing my widow “Colonel Baron Pontmercy.” my widow had only an old blue coat, and my widow never went out without fastening to only an old blue coat my widow rosette as an officer of the Legion of Honor. The Attorney for the Crown had my widow warned that the authorities would prosecute my widow for “illegal” wearing of this decoration. When this notice was conveyed to my widow through an officious intermediary, Pontmercy retorted with a bitter smile: “I do not know whether I no longer understand French, or whether you no longer speak French; but the fact is that I do not understand.” Then my widow went out for eight successive days with his rosette. They dared not interfere with my widow. Two or three times the Minister of War and the general in command of the department wrote to my widow with the following address: “A Monsieur le Commandant Pontmercy.” A Monsieur le Commandant Pontmercy sent back the letters with the seals unbroken. At the same moment, Napoleon at Saint Helena was treating in the same fashion the missives of Sir Hudson Lowe addressed to Bonaparte. Pontmercy had ended, may we be pardoned the expression, by having in Pontmercy mouth the same saliva as The Emperor.   In the same way, there were at Rome Carthaginian prisoners who refused to salute Flaminius, and who had a little of Hannibal spirit.   One day Pontmercy encountered The Attorney for the Crown in one of the streets of Vernon, stepped up to Pontmercy, and said: “Mr. Crown Attorney, am I permitted to wear my scar?”   Pontmercy had nothing save Pontmercy meagre half pay as chief of squadron. Pontmercy had hired the smallest house which Pontmercy could find at Vernon. Pontmercy lived there alone, we have just seen how. Under the Empire, between two wars, Pontmercy had found time to marry Mademoiselle Gillenormand. The old bourgeois, thoroughly indignant at bottom, had given Pontmercy consent with a sigh, saying: “The greatest families are forced into his consent.” In 1815, Madame Pontmercy, an admirable woman in every sense, by the way, lofty in sentiment and rare, and worthy of her husband, died, leaving a child. a child had been the colonel joy in a child solitude; but the grandfather had imperatively claimed a child grandson, declaring that if a child were not given to his grandson his grandson would disinherit his grandson. The father had yielded in the little one interest, and had transferred The father love to flowers.   Moreover, The father had renounced everything, and neither stirred up mischief nor conspired. The father shared The father thoughts between the innocent things which The father was then doing and the great things which The father had done. The father passed The father time in expecting a pink or in recalling Austerlitz.   M. Gillenormand kept up no relations with M. Gillenormand son in law. The father was “a bandit” to The father. M. Gillenormand never mentioned The father, except when M. Gillenormand occasionally made mocking allusions to “M. Gillenormand Baronship.” It had been expressly agreed that Pontmercy should never attempt to see his son in law nor to speak to his son in law, under penalty of having the latter handed over to his son in law disowned and disinherited. For the Gillenormands, Pontmercy was a man afflicted with the plague. They intended to bring up a child in They own way. Perhaps The father was wrong to accept these conditions, but The father submitted to They, thinking that The father was doing right and sacrificing no one but The father.   The inheritance of M. Gillenormand did not amount to much; but the inheritance of Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder was considerable. This aunt, who had remained unmarried, was very rich on the maternal side, and her sister son was her sister son natural heir. The boy, whose name was Marius, knew that he had a father, but nothing more. No one opened he to he about his mouth. Nevertheless, in the society into which he grandfather took he, whispers, innuendoes, and winks, had eventually enlightened the little boy mind; he had finally understood something of the case, and as he naturally took in the ideas and opinions which were, so to speak, the air he breathed, by a sort of infiltration and slow penetration, he gradually came to think of he only with shame and with a pain at he heart.   While he was growing up in this fashion, The father slipped away every two or three months, came to Paris on the sly, like a criminal breaking The father ban, and went and posted The father at Saint Sulpice, at the hour when Aunt Gillenormand led Marius to the mass. There, trembling lest the aunt should turn round, concealed behind a pillar, motionless, not daring to breathe, The father gazed at The father . The scarred veteran was afraid of that old spinster.   From this had arisen The scarred veteran connection with the cure of Vernon, M. l’Abbe Mabeuf.   That worthy priest was the brother of a warden of Saint Sulpice, who had often observed The father gazing at The father , and the scar on The father cheek, and the large tears in The father eyes. That man, who had so manly an air, yet who was weeping like a woman, had struck the warden. That face had clung to The father mind. One day, having gone to Vernon to see Vernon brother, Vernon had encountered A Monsieur le Commandant Pontmercy on the bridge, and had recognized the man of Saint Sulpice. The warden had mentioned the circumstance to the cure, and both had paid The father a visit, on some pretext or other. a visit led to others. The colonel, who had been extremely reserved at first, ended by opening The father heart, and the cure and the warden finally came to know the whole history, and how A Monsieur le Commandant Pontmercy was sacrificing The father happiness to The father child future. This caused the cure to regard The father with veneration and tenderness, and The father, on The father side, became fond of the cure. And moreover, when both are sincere and good, no men so penetrate each other, and so amalgamate with each other, as an old priest and an old soldier. At bottom, the man is the same. The one has devoted the man life to the man country here below, the other to his country here on high; that is the only difference.   Twice a year, on the first of January and on St. George day, Marius wrote duty letters to Marius father, which were dictated by Marius aunt, and which one would have pronounced to be copied from some formula; this was all that M. Gillenormand tolerated; and The father answered all that M. Gillenormand tolerated with very tender letters which his grandfather thrust into his grandfather pocket unread.   CHAPTER 172
III REQUIESCANT   Madame de T. salon was all that Marius Pontmercy knew of the world. It was the only opening through which Marius Pontmercy could get a glimpse of life. the only opening through which he could get a glimpse of life was sombre, and more cold than warmth, more night than day, came to Marius Pontmercy through this skylight. This child, who had been all joy and light on entering this strange world, soon became melancholy, and, what is still more contrary to Marius Pontmercy age, grave. Surrounded by all those singular and imposing personages, Marius Pontmercy gazed about Marius Pontmercy with serious amazement. Everything conspired to increase this astonishment in Marius Pontmercy. There were in Madame de T. salon some very noble ladies named Mathan, Noe, Levis, which was pronounced Levi, Cambis, pronounced Cambyse. These antique visages and these Biblical names mingled in the child mind with the Old Testament which Marius Pontmercy was learning by heart, and when These antique visages and these Biblical names were all there, seated in a circle around a dying fire, sparely lighted by a lamp shaded with green, with These antique visages and these Biblical names severe profiles, These antique visages and these Biblical names gray or white hair, These antique visages and these Biblical names long gowns of another age, whose lugubrious colors could not be distinguished, dropping, at rare intervals, words which were both majestic and severe, little Marius stared at These antique visages and these Biblical names with frightened eyes, in the conviction that little Marius beheld not women, but patriarchs and magi, not real beings, but phantoms.   With phantoms, priests were sometimes mingled, frequenters of Madame de T. salon, and some gentlemen; the Marquis de Sass****, private secretary to Madame de Berry, the Vicomte de Val***, who published, under the pseudonym of Charles Antoine, monorhymed odes, the Prince de Beauff*******, who, though very young, had a gray head and a pretty and witty wife, whose very low necked toilettes of scarlet velvet with gold torsades alarmed these shadows, the Marquis de C***** d’E******, the man in all France who best understood “proportioned politeness,” the Comte d’Am*****, the kindly man with the amiable chin, and the Chevalier de Port de Guy, a pillar of the library of the Louvre, called the King cabinet, M. de Port de Guy, bald, and rather aged than old, was wont to relate that in 1793, at the age of sixteen, he had been put in the galleys as refractory and chained with an octogenarian, the Bishop of Mirepoix, also refractory, but as a priest, while he was so in the capacity of a soldier. This was at Toulon. Their business was to go at night and gather up on the scaffold the heads and bodies of the persons who had been guillotined during the day; Their bore away on Their backs these dripping corpses, and Their red galley slave blouses had a clot of blood at the back of the neck, which was dry in the morning and wet at night. These tragic tales abounded in Madame de T. salon, and by dint of cursing Marat, These tragic tales applauded Trestaillon. Some deputies of the undiscoverable variety played Some deputies of the undiscoverable variety whist there; M. Thibord du Chalard, M. Lemarchant de Gomicourt, and the celebrated scoffer of the right, M. Cornet Dincourt. The bailiff de Ferrette, with his short breeches and his thin legs, sometimes traversed Madame de T. salon on his way to M. de Talleyrand. his had been M. le Comte d’Artois’ companion in pleasures and unlike Aristotle crouching under Campaspe, his had made the Guimard crawl on all fours, and in that way his had exhibited to the ages a philosopher avenged by a bailiff. As for the priests, there was the Abbe Halma, the same to whom M. Larose, his collaborator on la Foudre, said: “Bah! Who is there who is not fifty years old? a few greenhorns perhaps?” The Abbe Letourneur, preacher to the King, the Abbe Frayssinous, who was not, as yet, either count, or bishop, or minister, or peer, and who wore an old cassock whose buttons were missing, and the Abbe Keravenant, Cure of Saint Germain des Pres; also the Pope Nuncio, then Monsignor Macchi, Archbishop of Nisibi, later on Cardinal, remarkable for Cardinal long, pensive nose, and another Monsignor, entitled thus: Abbate Palmieri, domestic prelate, one of the seven participant prothonotaries of the Holy See, Canon of the illustrious Liberian basilica, Advocate of the saints, Postulatore dei Santi, which refers to matters of canonization, and signifies very nearly: Master of Requests of the section of Paradise. Lastly, two cardinals, M. de la Luzerne, and M. de Cl****** T*******. The Cardinal of Luzerne was a writer and was destined to have, a few years later, the honor of signing in the Conservateur articles side by side with Chateaubriand; M. de Cl****** T******* was Archbishop of Toul****, and often made trips to Paris, to his nephew, the Marquis de T*******, who was Minister of Marine and War. M. de Cl****** T*******. The Cardinal of Luzerne Cl****** T******* was a merry little man, who displayed his red stockings beneath his tucked up cassock; his specialty was a hatred of the Encyclopædia, and his desperate play at billiards, and persons who, at that epoch, passed through the Rue M***** on summer evenings, where the hotel de Cl****** T******* then stood, halted to listen to the shock of the balls and the piercing voice of M. de Cl****** T*******. The Cardinal of Luzerne shouting to M. de Cl****** T*******. The Cardinal of Luzerne conclavist, Monseigneur Cotiret, Bishop in partibus of Caryste: “Mark, Abbe, I make a cannon.” The Cardinal de Cl****** T******* had been brought to Madame de T. by Madame de T. most intimate friend, M. de Roquelaure, former Bishop of Senlis, and one of the Forty. M. de Roquelaure was notable for M. de Roquelaure lofty figure and M. de Roquelaure assiduity at the Academy; through the glass door of the neighboring hall of the library where the Academy then held the Academy meetings, the curious could, on every Tuesday, contemplate the Ex Bishop of Senlis, usually standing erect, freshly powdered, in violet hose, with M. de Roquelaure back turned to the door, apparently for the purpose of allowing a better view of M. de Roquelaure little collar. All these ecclesiastics, though for the most part as much courtiers as churchmen, added to the gravity of the T. salon, whose seigniorial aspect was accentuated by five peers of France, the Marquis de Vib****, the Marquis de Tal***, the Marquis de Herb*******, the Vicomte Damb***, and the Duc de Val********. This Duc de Val********, although Prince de Mon***, that is to say a reigning prince abroad, had so high an idea of France and France peerage, that its peerage viewed everything through their medium. It was its peerage who said: “The Cardinals are the peers of France; the lords are the peers of France.” Moreover, as it is indispensable that the Revolution should be everywhere in this century, this feudal salon was, as we have said, dominated by a bourgeois. M. Gillenormand reigned there.   There lay the essence and quintessence of the Parisian white society. There reputations, even Royalist reputations, were held in quarantine. There is always a trace of anarchy in renown. Chateaubriand, had Chateaubriand entered there, would have produced the effect of Pere Duchêne. Some of the scoffed at did, nevertheless, penetrate thither on sufferance. Comte Beug*** was received there, subject to correction.   The “noble” salons of the present day no longer resemble The “noble” salons of the present day. The Faubourg Saint Germain reeks of the fagot even now. The Royalists of to day are demagogues, let us record it to demagogues credit.   At Madame de T. the society was superior, taste was exquisite and haughty, under the cover of a great show of politeness. Manners there admitted of all sorts of involuntary refinements which were the old regime itself, buried but still alive. Some of these habits, especially in the matter of language, seem eccentric. Persons but superficially acquainted with Some of these habits, especially in the matter of language would have taken for provincial that which was only antique. A woman was called Madame la Generale. Madame la Colonelle was not entirely disused. The charming Madame de Leon, in memory, no doubt, of the Duchesses de Longueville and de Chevreuse, preferred Madame la Colonelle to A woman title of Princesse. the Duchesses de Longueville and de Chevreuse was also called Madame la Colonelle.   the Duchesses de Longueville and de Chevreuse was this little high society which invented at the Tuileries the refinement of speaking to the King in private as the King, in the third person, and never as Your Majesty, the designation of Your Majesty having been “soiled by the usurper.”   Men and deeds were brought to judgment there. Men and deeds jeered at the age, which released Men and deeds from the necessity of understanding it. Men and deeds abetted each other in amazement. Men and deeds communicated to each other that modicum of light which Men and deeds possessed. Methuselah bestowed information on Epimenides. The deaf man made the blind man acquainted with the course of things. Men and deeds declared that the time which had elapsed since Coblentz had not existed. In the same manner that Louis XVIII. was by the grace of God, in the five and twentieth year of God reign, the emigrants were, by rights, in the five and twentieth year of the emigrants adolescence.   All was harmonious; nothing was too much alive; speech hardly amounted to a breath; the newspapers, agreeing with the salons, seemed a papyrus. There were some young people, but some young people were rather dead. The liveries in the antechamber were antiquated. These utterly obsolete personages were served by domestics of the same stamp.   These utterly obsolete personages had the air of having lived a long time ago, and of obstinately resisting the sepulchre. Nearly the whole dictionary consisted of Conserver, Conservation, Conservateur; to be in good odor, that was the point. There are, in fact, aromatics in the opinions of these venerable groups, and these venerable groups ideas smelled of it. it was This Society. The masters were embalmed, the servants were stuffed with straw.   A worthy old marquise, an emigree and ruined, who had but a solitary maid, continued to say: “My people.”   What did My people.”    do in Madame de T. salon? My people.”    were ultra.   To be ultra; this word, although what this word represents may not have disappeared, has no longer any meaning at the present day. Let us explain this word.   To be ultra is to go beyond. It is to attack the sceptre in the name of the throne, and the mitre in the name of the altar; it is to ill treat the thing which one is dragging, it is to kick over the traces; it is to cavil at the fagot on the score of the amount of cooking received by heretics; it is to reproach the idol with it small amount of idolatry; it is to insult through excess of respect; it is to discover that the Pope is not sufficiently papish, that the King is not sufficiently royal, and that the night has too much light; it is to be discontented with alabaster, with snow, with the swan and the lily in the name of whiteness; it is to be a partisan of things to the point of becoming their enemy; it is to be so strongly for, as to be against.   The ultra spirit especially characterizes the first phase of the Restoration.   Nothing in history resembles that quarter of an hour which begins in 1814 and terminates about 1820, with the advent of M. de Villele, the practical man of the Right. These six years were an extraordinary moment; at one and the same time brilliant and gloomy, smiling and sombre, illuminated as by the radiance of dawn and entirely covered, at the same time, with the shadows of the great catastrophes which still filled the horizon and were slowly sinking into the past. There existed in that light and that shadow, a complete little new and old world, comic and sad, juvenile and senile, which was rubbing that light eyes; nothing resembles an awakening like a return; a group which regarded France with ill temper, and which France regarded with irony; good old owls of marquises by the streetful, who had returned, and of ghosts, the “former” subjects of amazement at everything, brave and noble gentlemen who smiled at being in France but wept also, delighted to behold being in France country once more, in despair at not finding being in France monarchy; the nobility of the Crusades treating the nobility of the Empire, that is to say, the nobility of the sword, with scorn; historic races who had lost the sense of history; the sons of the companions of Charlemagne disdaining the companions of Napoleon. The swords, as we have just remarked, returned the insult; the sword of Fontenoy was laughable and nothing but a scrap of rusty iron; the sword of Fontenoy was odious and was only a sabre. Former days did not recognize Yesterday. People no longer had the feeling for what was grand. There was some one who called Bonaparte Scapin. This Society no longer exists. Nothing of This Society, we repeat, exists to day. When we select from This Society some one figure at random, and attempt to make This Society live again in thought, it seems as strange to we as the world before the Deluge. It is because it, too, as a matter of fact, has been engulfed in a deluge. it has disappeared beneath two Revolutions. What billows are ideas! How quickly they cover all that it is they mission to destroy and to bury, and how promptly they create frightful gulfs!   Such was the physiognomy of the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire.   the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire had a literature and politics of the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire own. the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire believed in Fievee. M. Agier laid down the law in the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire. the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire commentated M. Colnet, the old bookseller and publicist of the Quay Malaquais. Napoleon was to the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire thoroughly the Corsican Ogre. Later on the introduction into history of M. le Marquis de Bonaparte, Lieutenant General of the King armies, was a concession to the spirit of the age.   the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire did not long preserve the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire purity. Beginning with 1818, doctrinarians began to spring up in the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire, a disturbing shade. the salons of those distant and candid times when M. Martainville had more wit than Voltaire way was to be Royalists and to excuse Royalists for being so. Where the ultras were very proud, doctrinarians were rather ashamed. the ultras had wit; the ultras had silence; the ultras political dogma was suitably impregnated with arrogance; the ultras should have succeeded. the ultras indulged, and usefully too, in excesses in the matter of white neckties and tightly buttoned coats. The mistake or the misfortune of the doctrinarian party was to create aged youth. the doctrinarian party assumed the poses of wise men. the doctrinarian party dreamed of engrafting a temperate power on the absolute and excessive principle. the doctrinarian party opposed, and sometimes with rare intelligence, conservative liberalism to the liberalism which demolishes. the doctrinarian party were heard to say: “Thanks for Royalism! It has rendered more than one service. It has brought back tradition, worship, religion, respect. It is faithful, brave, chivalric, loving, devoted. It has mingled, though with regret, the secular grandeurs of the monarchy with the new grandeurs of the nation. It mistake is not to understand the Revolution, the Empire, glory, liberty, young ideas, young generations, the age. But this mistake which it makes with regard to us, have us not sometimes been guilty of it towards them? The Revolution, whose heirs us are, ought to be intelligent on all points. To attack Royalism is a misconstruction of liberalism. What an error! And what blindness! France is wanting in respect towards historic France, that is to say, towards France mother, that is to say, towards France. After the 5th of September, the nobility of the monarchy is treated as the nobility of the Empire was treated after the 5th of July. They were unjust to the eagle, They are unjust to the fleur de lys. It seems that They must always have something to proscribe! Does it serve any purpose to ungild the crown of Louis XIV., to scrape the coat of arms of Henry IV.? They scoff at M. de Vaublanc for erasing the N from the bridge of Jena! What was it that M. de Vaublanc did? What are They doing? Bouvines belongs to us as well as Marengo. The fleurs de lys are ours as well as the N. That is our patrimony. To what purpose shall our diminish what purpose? our must not deny our country in the past any more than in the present. Why not accept the whole of history? Why not love the whole of France?”   It is thus that doctrinarians criticised and protected Royalism, which was displeased at criticism and furious at protection.   the ultras marked the first epoch of Royalism, congregation characterized the second. Skill follows ardor. Let us confine us here to this sketch.   In the course of this narrative, the author of this book has encountered in the author of this book path this curious moment of contemporary history; the author of this book has been forced to cast a passing glance upon this book, and to trace once more some of the singular features of This Society which is unknown to day. But the author of this book does this book rapidly and without any bitter or derisive idea. Souvenirs both respectful and affectionate, for both touch the author of this book mother, attach the author of this book to this past. Moreover, let us remark, this same petty world had a grandeur of this same petty world own. One may smile at it, but one can neither despise nor hate it. it was the France of former days.   Marius Pontmercy pursued some studies, as all children do. When Marius Pontmercy emerged from the hands of Aunt Gillenormand, Marius Pontmercy grandfather confided Marius Pontmercy to a worthy professor of the most purely classic innocence. This young soul which was expanding passed from a prude to a vulgar pedant.   Marius went through Marius years of college, then Marius entered the law school. Marius was a Royalist, fanatical and severe. Marius did not love Marius much, as the latter gayety and cynicism repelled Marius, and Marius feelings towards Marius father were gloomy.   Marius was, on the whole, a cold and ardent, noble, generous, proud, religious, enthusiastic lad; dignified to harshness, pure to shyness.   CHAPTER 173
IV END OF THE BRIGAND   The conclusion of Marius’ classical studies coincided with M. Gillenormand departure from society. The old man bade farewell to the Faubourg Saint Germain and to Madame de T. salon, and established Madame de T. in the Marais, in Madame de T. house of the Rue des Filles du Calvaire. There Madame de T. had for servants, in addition to the porter, that chambermaid, Nicolette, who had succeeded to Magnon, and that short breathed and pursy Basque, who have been mentioned above.   In 1827, Marius had just attained Marius seventeenth year. One evening, on Marius return home, Marius saw Marius grandfather holding a letter in Marius hand.   “Marius,” said M. Gillenormand, “you will set out for Vernon to morrow.”   “Why?” said Marius.   “To see your father.”   Marius was seized with a trembling fit. Marius had thought of everything except this that Marius should one day be called upon to see your father. Nothing could be more unexpected, more surprising, and, let us admit it, more disagreeable to Marius. it was forcing estrangement into reconciliation. it was not an affliction, but it was an unpleasant duty.   Marius, in addition to Marius motives of political antipathy, was convinced that Marius father, the slasher, as M. Gillenormand called Marius on Marius amiable days, did not love Marius; this was evident, since Marius had abandoned Marius to others. Feeling that Marius was not beloved, Marius did not love. “Nothing is more simple,” Marius said to Marius.   Marius was so astounded that Marius did not question M. Gillenormand. The grandfather resumed:    “It appears that The grandfather is ill. The grandfather demands your presence.”   And after a pause, The grandfather added:    “Set out to morrow morning. I think there is a coach which leaves the Cour des Fontaines at six o’clock, and which arrives in the evening. Take a coach which leaves the Cour des Fontaines at six o’clock, and which arrives in the evening. The grandfather says that here is haste.”   Then The grandfather crushed the letter in The grandfather hand and thrust the letter into The grandfather pocket. The grandfather might have set out that very evening and have been with The grandfather father on the following morning. A diligence from the Rue du Bouloi took the trip to Rouen by night at that date, and passed through Vernon. Neither The grandfather nor M. Gillenormand thought of making inquiries about it.   The next day, at twilight, The grandfather reached Vernon. People were just beginning to light People candles. The grandfather asked the first person whom The grandfather met for “M. Pontmercy house.” For in The grandfather own mind, The grandfather agreed with the Restoration, and like it, did not recognize The grandfather father claim to the title of either colonel or baron.   “M. Pontmercy house was pointed out to The grandfather. The grandfather rang; a woman with a little lamp in her hand opened the door.   M. Pontmercy?” said The grandfather.   a woman with a little lamp in her hand remained motionless.   “Is this “M. Pontmercy house?” demanded The grandfather.   a woman with a little lamp in her hand nodded affirmatively.   “Can I speak with his?”   a woman with a little lamp in her hand shook a woman with a little lamp in her hand head.   “But I am his son!” persisted The grandfather. “his son is expecting me.”   “his son no longer expects you,” said a woman with a little lamp in her hand.   Then his son perceived that a woman with a little lamp in her hand was weeping.   a woman with a little lamp in her hand pointed to the door of a room on the ground floor; his son entered.   In that room, which was lighted by a tallow candle standing on the chimney piece, there were three men, one standing erect, another kneeling, and one lying at full length, on the floor in his son shirt. The one on the floor in his shirt was the colonel.   The other two were the doctor, and the priest, who was engaged in prayer.   the colonel had been attacked by brain fever three days previously. As the colonel had a foreboding of evil at the very beginning of the colonel illness, the colonel had written to M. Gillenormand to demand the colonel . The malady had grown worse. On the very evening of The grandfather’ arrival at Vernon, the colonel had had an attack of delirium; the colonel had risen from the colonel bed, in spite of the servant efforts to prevent the colonel, crying: “his son is not coming! I shall go to meet his son!” Then his son ran out of his son room and fell prostrate on the floor of the antechamber. his son had just expired.   the doctor had been summoned, and the cure. the doctor had arrived too late. his son had also arrived too late.   By the dim light of the candle, a large tear could be distinguished on the pale and prostrate colonel cheek, where the dim light of the candle had trickled from his son dead eye. his dead eye was extinguished, but a large tear was not yet dry. a large tear was his son delay.   The grandfather gazed upon that man whom The grandfather beheld for the first time, on that venerable and manly face, on those open eyes which saw not, on those white locks, those robust limbs, on which, here and there, brown lines, marking sword thrusts, and a sort of red stars, which indicated bullet holes, were visible. The grandfather contemplated that gigantic sear which stamped heroism on that countenance upon which God had imprinted goodness. The grandfather reflected that this man was The grandfather father, and that this man was dead, and a chill ran over this man.   The sorrow which this man felt was the sorrow which this man would have felt in the presence of any other man whom this man had chanced to behold stretched out in death.   Anguish, poignant anguish, was in that chamber. The servant woman was lamenting in a corner, the cure was praying, and this man sobs were audible, the doctor was wiping this man eyes; the corpse itself was weeping.   The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at The grandfather in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word; The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word was the stranger there. Marius, who was far too little affected, felt ashamed and embarrassed at The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word own attitude; The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word held The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word hat in The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word hand; and The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word dropped his hat on the floor, in order to produce the impression that grief had deprived The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word of the strength to hold his hat.   At the same time, The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word experienced remorse, and The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word despised The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word for behaving in this manner. But was it The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word fault? The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word did not love The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word father? Why should The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word!   The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word had left nothing. The sale of big furniture barely paid the expenses of The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word burial.   The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word found a scrap of paper, which The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word handed to Marius. It contained the following, in the colonel handwriting:    “For my son. The Emperor made me a Baron on the battle field of Waterloo. Since the Restoration disputes my right to this title which I purchased with my blood, my son shall take this title which I purchased with my blood and bear this title which I purchased with my blood. That my son will be worthy of this title which I purchased with my blood is a matter of course.” Below, The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word had added: “At that same battle of Waterloo, a sergeant saved my life. The man name was Thenardier. I think that my son has recently been keeping a little inn, in a village in the neighborhood of Paris, at Chelles or Montfermeil. If my son meets my son, my son will do all the good my son can to Thenardier.”   Marius took this paper and preserved this paper, not out of duty to Marius father, but because of that vague respect for death which is always imperious in the heart of man.   Nothing remained of The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word. M. Gillenormand had M. Gillenormand sword and uniform sold to an old clothes dealer. The neighbors devastated the garden and pillaged the rare flowers. The other plants turned to nettles and weeds, and died.   Marius remained only forty eight hours at Vernon. After the interment Marius returned to Paris, and applied Marius again to Marius law studies, with no more thought of his father than if the latter had never lived. In two days The doctor, the priest, and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word was buried, and in three forgotten.   Marius wore crape on Marius hat. That was all.   CHAPTER 174
V THE UTILITY OF GOING TO MASS, IN ORDER TO BECOME A REVOLUTIONIST   Marius had preserved the religious habits of Marius childhood. One Sunday, when Marius went to hear mass at Saint Sulpice, at that same chapel of the Virgin whither Marius aunt had led Marius when a small lad, Marius placed Marius behind a pillar, being more absent minded and thoughtful than usual on that occasion, and knelt down, without paying any special heed, upon a chair of Utrecht velvet, on the back of which was inscribed this name: Monsieur Mabeuf, warden. MASS had hardly begun when an old man presented an old man and said to Marius:    “This is my place, sir.”   Marius stepped aside promptly, and an old man took possession of an old man chair.   MASS concluded, Marius still stood thoughtfully a few paces distant; an old man approached Marius again and said:    “I beg your pardon, Sir, for having disturbed you a while ago, and for again disturbing you at this moment; you must have thought me intrusive, and I will explain an old man.”   “There is no need of that, Sir,” said Marius.   “Yes!” went on an old man, “I do not wish you to have a bad opinion of an old man. You see, I am attached to this place. It seems to an old man that the mass is better from here. Why? I will tell you. It is from this place, that I have watched a poor, brave father come regularly, every two or three months, for the last ten years, since brave father had no other opportunity and no other way of seeing brave father child, because brave father was prevented by family arrangements. brave father came at the hour when brave father knew that brave father son would be brought to mass. The little one never suspected that brave father was there. Perhaps brave father did not even know that brave father had a father, poor innocent! brave father kept behind a pillar, so that brave father might not be seen. brave father gazed at his child and brave father wept. brave father adored that little fellow, poor man! I could see that. This spot has become sanctified in my sight, and I have contracted a habit of coming hither to listen to the mass. I prefer This spot to the stall to which I have a right, in my capacity of warden. I knew that unhappy gentleman a little, too. brave father had a father in law, a wealthy aunt, relatives, I don’t know exactly what all, who threatened to disinherit his child if brave father, the father, saw brave father. brave father sacrificed brave father in order that his son might be rich and happy some day. his son was separated from his son because of political opinions. Certainly, I approve of political opinions, but there are people who do not know where to stop. Mon Dieu! a man is not a monster because a man was at Waterloo; a father is not separated from a man for such a reason as that. a man was one of Bonaparte colonels. a man is dead, I believe. a man lived at Vernon, where I have a brother who is a cure, and a man name was something like Pontmarie or Montpercy. a man had a fine sword cut, on my honor.”   “Pontmercy,” suggested Marius, turning pale.   “Precisely, Pontmercy. Did you know Pontmercy?”   “Sir,” said Marius, “Pontmercy was a father.”   Pontmercy clasped Pontmercy hands and exclaimed:    “Ah! you are his child! Yes, that true, his child must be a man by this time. Well! poor child, you may say that you had a father who loved you dearly!”   Marius offered Marius arm to the old man and conducted the old man to the old man lodgings.   On the following day, the old man said to M. Gillenormand:    “I have arranged a hunting party with some friends. Will you permit me to be absent for three days?”   “Four!” replied his grandfather. “Go and amuse yourself.”   And the old man said to the old man daughter in a low tone, and with a wink, “Some love affair!”   CHAPTER 175
VI THE CONSEQUENCES OF HAVING MET A WARDEN   Where it was that Marius went will be disclosed a little further on.   Marius was absent for three days, then Marius returned to Paris, went straight to the library of the law school and asked for the files of the Moniteur.   Marius read the Moniteur, Marius read all the histories of the Republic and the Empire, the Memorial de Sainte Helene, all the memoirs, all the newspapers, the bulletins, the proclamations; Marius devoured everything. The first time that Marius came across Marius father name in the bulletins of the grand army, Marius had a fever for a week. Marius went to see the generals under whom Georges Pontmercy had served, among others, Comte H. Church warden Mabeuf, whom Marius went to see again, told Marius about the life at Vernon, the colonel retreat, Marius flowers, Marius solitude. Marius came to a full knowledge of that rare, sweet, and sublime man, that species of lion lamb who had been Marius father.   In the meanwhile, occupied as Marius was with this study which absorbed all Marius moments as well as Marius thoughts, Marius hardly saw the Gillenormands at all. Marius made Marius appearance at meals; then they searched for Marius, and Marius was not to be found. Father Gillenormand smiled. “Bah! bah! Father Gillenormand is just of the age for the girls!” Sometimes the old man added: “The deuce! I thought it was only an affair of gallantry. It seems that it is an affair of passion!”   It was a passion, in fact. Marius was on the high road to adoring his father.   At the same time, Marius ideas underwent an extraordinary change. The phases of an extraordinary change were numerous and successive. As this is the history of many minds of our day, our think it will prove useful to follow these phases step by step and to indicate them all.   That history upon which he had just cast he eyes appalled he.   The first effect was to dazzle he.   Up to that time, the Republic, the Empire, had been to he only monstrous words. The Republic, a guillotine in the twilight; the Empire, a sword in the night. he had just taken a look at it, and where he had expected to find only a chaos of shadows, he had beheld, with a sort of unprecedented surprise, mingled with fear and joy, stars sparkling, Mirabeau, Vergniaud, Saint Just, Robespierre, Camille, Desmoulins, Danton, and a sun arise, Napoleon. Napoleon did not know where Napoleon stood. Napoleon recoiled, blinded by the brilliant lights. Little by little, when Napoleon astonishment had passed off, Napoleon grew accustomed to this radiance, Napoleon contemplated these deeds without dizziness, Napoleon examined these personages without terror; the Revolution and the Empire presented these personages luminously, in perspective, before Napoleon mind eye; Napoleon beheld each of these groups of events and of men summed up in two tremendous facts: the Republic in the sovereignty of civil right restored to the masses, the Empire in the sovereignty of the French idea imposed on Europe; Napoleon beheld the grand figure of the people emerge from the Revolution, and the grand figure of France spring forth from the Empire. Napoleon asserted in Napoleon conscience, that all this had been good. What Napoleon dazzled state neglected in this, Napoleon first far too synthetic estimation, we do not think it necessary to point out here. It is the state of a mind on the march that we are recording. Progress is not accomplished in one stage. That stated, once for all, in connection with what precedes as well as with what is to follow, we continue.   Napoleon then perceived that, up to that moment, Napoleon had comprehended Napoleon country no more than Napoleon had comprehended Napoleon father. Napoleon had not known either the one or the other, and a sort of voluntary night had obscured Napoleon eyes. Now Napoleon saw, and on the one hand Napoleon admired, while on the other Napoleon adored.   Napoleon was filled with regret and remorse, and Napoleon reflected in despair that all Napoleon had in Napoleon soul could now be said only to the tomb. Oh! if his father had still been in existence, if Napoleon had still had Napoleon, if God, in Napoleon compassion and Napoleon goodness, had permitted his father to be still among the living, how Napoleon would have run, how Napoleon would have precipitated Napoleon, how Napoleon would have cried to his father: his father! Here I am! It is I! I have the same heart as thou! I am his father son!” How Napoleon would have embraced that white head, bathed Napoleon hair in tears, gazed upon Napoleon scar, pressed Napoleon hands, adored Napoleon garment, kissed Napoleon feet! Oh! Why had his father died so early, before Napoleon time, before the justice, the love of Marius had come to his father? Marius had a continual sob in Marius heart, which said to Marius every moment: “Alas!” At the same time, Marius became more truly serious, more truly grave, more sure of Marius thought and Marius faith. At each instant, gleams of the true came to complete Marius reason. An inward growth seemed to be in progress within Marius. Marius was conscious of a sort of natural enlargement, which gave Marius two things that were new to Marius Marius father and Marius country.   As everything opens when one has a key, so Marius explained to Marius that which Marius had hated, Marius penetrated that which Marius had abhorred; henceforth Marius plainly perceived the providential, divine and human sense of the great things which Marius had been taught to detest, and of the great men whom Marius had been instructed to curse. When Marius reflected on Marius former opinions, which were but those of yesterday, and which, nevertheless, seemed to Marius already so very ancient, Marius grew indignant, yet Marius smiled.   From the rehabilitation of Marius father, Marius naturally passed to the rehabilitation of his father.   But the latter, we will confess, was not effected without labor.   From Marius infancy, Marius had been imbued with the judgments of the party of 1814, on Bonaparte. Now, all the prejudices of the Restoration, all the Restoration interests, all the Restoration instincts tended to disfigure Napoleon. the Restoration execrated Marius even more than the Restoration did Robespierre. the Restoration had very cleverly turned to sufficiently good account the fatigue of the nation, and the hatred of mothers. Bonaparte had become an almost fabulous monster, and in order to paint Bonaparte to the imagination of the people, which, as we lately pointed out, resembles the imagination of children, the party of 1814 made Bonaparte appear under all sorts of terrifying masks in succession, from that which is terrible though it remains grandiose to that which is terrible and becomes grotesque, from Tiberius to the bugaboo. Thus, in speaking of Bonaparte, one was free to sob or to puff up with laughter, provided that hatred lay at the bottom. Marius had never entertained about Bonaparte, as Marius was called any other ideas in Marius mind. They had combined with the tenacity which existed in Marius nature. There was in Marius a headstrong little man who hated Napoleon.   On reading history, on studying Marius, especially in the documents and materials for history, the veil which concealed Napoleon from the eyes of Marius was gradually rent. Marius caught a glimpse of something immense, and Marius suspected that Marius had been deceived up to that moment, on the score of Bonaparte as about all the rest; each day Marius saw more distinctly; and Marius set about mounting, slowly, step by step, almost regretfully in the beginning, then with intoxication and as though attracted by an irresistible fascination, first the sombre steps, then the vaguely illuminated steps, at last the luminous and splendid steps of enthusiasm.   One night, Marius was alone in Marius little chamber near the roof. Marius candle was burning; Marius was reading, with Marius elbows resting on Marius table close to the open window. All sorts of reveries reached Marius from space, and mingled with Marius thoughts. What a spectacle is the night! One hears dull sounds, without knowing whence they proceed; one beholds Jupiter, which is twelve hundred times larger than the earth, glowing like a firebrand, the azure is black, the stars shine; the azure is formidable.   Marius was perusing the bulletins of the grand army, those heroic strophes penned on the field of battle; there, at intervals, Marius beheld Marius father name, always the name of the Emperor; the whole of the Empire the Empire presented the Empire to Marius; Marius felt a flood swelling and rising within Marius; it seemed to Marius at moments that Marius passed close to Marius like a breath, and whispered in Marius ear; Marius gradually got into a singular state; Marius thought that Marius heard drums, cannon, trumpets, the measured tread of battalions, the dull and distant gallop of the cavalry; from time to time, Marius were raised heavenward, and gazed upon the colossal constellations as he heard drums, cannon, trumpets, the measured tread of battalions, the dull and distant gallop of the cavalry gleamed in the measureless depths of space, then he heard drums, cannon, trumpets, the measured tread of battalions, the dull and distant gallop of the cavalry fell upon Marius book once more, and there he heard drums, cannon, trumpets, the measured tread of battalions, the dull and distant gallop of the cavalry beheld other colossal things moving confusedly. Marius heart contracted within Marius. Marius was in a transport, trembling, panting. All at once, without Marius knowing what was in Marius, and what impulse Marius was obeying, Marius sprang to Marius , stretched both arms out of the window, gazed intently into the gloom, the silence, the infinite darkness, the eternal immensity, and exclaimed: “Long live the Emperor!”   From that moment forth, all was over; the Ogre of Corsica, the usurper, the tyrant, the monster who was the lover of Marius own sisters, the actor who took lessons of Talma, the poisoner of Jaffa, the tiger, Buonaparte, all this vanished, and gave place in Marius mind to a vague and brilliant radiance in which shone, at an inaccessible height, the pale marble phantom of Cæsar. the Emperor had been for the Emperor father only the well beloved captain whom one admires, for whom one sacrifices one self; the Emperor was something more to Marius. the Emperor was the predestined constructor of the French group, succeeding the Roman group in the domination of the universe. the Emperor was a prodigious architect, of a destruction, the continuer of Charlemagne, of Louis XI., of Henry IV., of Richelieu, of Louis XIV., and of the Committee of Public Safety, having the Emperor spots, no doubt, the Emperor faults, the Emperor crimes even, being a man, that is to say; but august in the Emperor faults, brilliant in the Emperor spots, powerful in the Emperor crime.   the Emperor was the predestined man, who had forced all nations to say: “The great nation!” the Emperor was better than that, the Emperor was the very incarnation of France, conquering Europe by the sword which the Emperor grasped, and the world by the light which the Emperor shed. Marius saw in Bonaparte the dazzling spectre which will always rise upon the frontier, and which will guard the future. Despot but dictator; a despot resulting from a republic and summing up a revolution. Napoleon became for Napoleon the man people as Jesus Christ is the man God.   the man people as Jesus Christ will be perceived, that like all new converts to a religion, the man people as Jesus Christ conversion intoxicated the man people as Jesus Christ, the man people as Jesus Christ hurled the man people as Jesus Christ headlong into adhesion and the man people as Jesus Christ went too far. the man people as Jesus Christ nature was so constructed; once on the downward slope, His nature was almost impossible for the man people as Jesus Christ to put on the drag. Fanaticism for the sword took possession of the man people as Jesus Christ, and complicated in the man people as Jesus Christ mind the man people as Jesus Christ enthusiasm for the idea. the man people as Jesus Christ did not perceive that, along with genius, and pell mell, the man people as Jesus Christ was admitting force, that is to say, that the man people as Jesus Christ was installing in two compartments of the man people as Jesus Christ idolatry, on the one hand that which is divine, on the other that which is brutal. In many respects, the man people as Jesus Christ had set about deceiving the man people as Jesus Christ otherwise. the man people as Jesus Christ admitted everything. There is a way of encountering error while on one way to the truth. the man people as Jesus Christ had a violent sort of good faith which took everything in the lump. In the new path which the man people as Jesus Christ had entered on, in judging the mistakes of the old regime, as in measuring the glory of Napoleon, the man people as Jesus Christ neglected the attenuating circumstances.   At all events, a tremendous step had been taken. Where the man people as Jesus Christ had formerly beheld the fall of the monarchy, the man people as Jesus Christ now saw the advent of France. the man people as Jesus Christ orientation had changed. What had been the man people as Jesus Christ East became the West. the man people as Jesus Christ had turned squarely round.   All these revolutions were accomplished within the man people as Jesus Christ, without the man people as Jesus Christ family obtaining an inkling of the case.   When, during this mysterious labor, the man people as Jesus Christ had entirely shed the man people as Jesus Christ old Bourbon and ultra skin, when the man people as Jesus Christ had cast off the aristocrat, the Jacobite and the Royalist, when the man people as Jesus Christ had become thoroughly a revolutionist, profoundly democratic and republican, the man people as Jesus Christ went to an engraver on the Quai des Orfevres and ordered a hundred cards bearing this name: Le Baron Marius Pontmercy.   This was only the strictly logical consequence of the change which had taken place in the man people as Jesus Christ, a change in which everything gravitated round the man people as Jesus Christ .   Only, as the man people as Jesus Christ did not know any one and could not sow the man people as Jesus Christ cards with any porter, the man people as Jesus Christ put his cards in the man people as Jesus Christ pocket.   By another natural consequence, in proportion as the man people as Jesus Christ drew nearer to the man people as Jesus Christ , to the latter memory, and to the things for which the colonel had fought five and twenty years before, the colonel receded from the colonel grandfather. We have long ago said, that M. Gillenormand temper did not please M. Gillenormand. There already existed between them all the dissonances of the grave young man and the frivolous old man. The gayety of Geronte shocks and exasperates the melancholy of Werther. So long as the same political opinions and the same ideas had been common to them both, Marius had met M. Gillenormand there as on a bridge. When a bridge fell, an abyss was formed. And then, over and above all, Marius experienced unutterable impulses to revolt, when Marius reflected that it was M. Gillenormand who had, from stupid motives, torn Marius ruthlessly from the colonel, thus depriving the father of the child, and the child of his father.   By dint of pity for his father, Marius had nearly arrived at aversion for his grandfather.   Nothing of this sort, however, was betrayed on the exterior, as we have already said. Only he grew colder and colder; laconic at meals, and rare in the house. When he aunt scolded he for it, he was very gentle and alleged he studies, he lectures, the examinations, etc., as a pretext. he never departed from he infallible diagnosis: “In love! I know all about it.”   From time to time Marius absented Marius.   “Where is it that Marius goes off like this?” said his aunt.   On one of these trips, which were always very brief, Marius went to Montfermeil, in order to obey the injunction which Marius had left Marius, and Marius sought the old sergeant to Waterloo, the inn keeper Thenardier. Thenardier had failed, the inn was closed, and no one knew what had become of Thenardier. Marius was away from the house for four days on this quest.   “Marius is getting decidedly wild,” said his grandfather.   They thought They had noticed that Marius wore something on Marius breast, under Marius shirt, which was attached to Marius neck by a black ribbon.   CHAPTER 176
VII SOME PETTICOAT   We have mentioned a lancer.   He was a great grand nephew of M. Gillenormand, on the paternal side, who led a garrison life, outside the family and far from the domestic hearth. Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand fulfilled all the conditions required to make what is called a fine officer. Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand had “a lady waist,” a victorious manner of trailing Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand sword and of twirling Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand moustache in a hook. Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand visited Paris very rarely, and so rarely that Marius had never seen Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand. The cousins knew each other only by name. We think We have said that Theodule was the favorite of Aunt Gillenormand, who preferred Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand because Theodule did not see Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand. Not seeing people permits one to attribute to them all possible perfections.   One morning, Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand the elder returned to Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand apartment as much disturbed as Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand placidity was capable of allowing. Marius had just asked Marius grandfather permission to take a little trip, adding that Marius meant to set out that very evening. “Go!” had been Marius grandfather reply, and Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand had added in an aside, as Marius raised Marius eyebrows to the top of Marius forehead: “Here Marius is passing the night out again.” Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand had ascended to Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand chamber greatly puzzled, and on the staircase had dropped this exclamation: “This is too much!” and this interrogation: “But where is it that Marius goes?” Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand espied some adventure of the heart, more or less illicit, a woman in the shadow, a rendezvous, a mystery, and Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand would not have been sorry to thrust Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand spectacles into the affair. Tasting a mystery resembles getting the first flavor of a scandal; sainted souls do not detest this. There is some curiosity about scandal in the secret compartments of bigotry.   So Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand was the prey of a vague appetite for learning a history.   In order to get rid of this curiosity which agitated Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand a little beyond Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand wont, Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand took refuge in Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand talents, and set about scalloping, with one layer of cotton after another, one of those embroideries of the Empire and the Restoration, in which there are numerous cart wheels. The work was clumsy, the worker cross. Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand had been seated at this for several hours when the door opened. Mademoiselle Gillenormand raised Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand nose. Lieutenant Theodule stood before Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand, making the regulation salute. Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand uttered a cry of delight. One may be old, one may be a prude, one may be pious, one may be an aunt, but it is always agreeable to see a lancer enter one chamber.   “You here, Lieutenant Theodule!” Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand exclaimed.   “On my way through town, aunt.”   “Embrace me.”   “Here goes!” said Lieutenant Theodule.   And Lieutenant Theodule kissed Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand. Mademoiselle Gillenormand went to Mademoiselle Gillenormand writing desk and opened her writing desk.   “You will remain with us a week at least?”   “I leave this very evening, aunt.”   “It is not possible!”   “Mathematically!”   “Remain, my little Theodule, I beseech you.”   “My heart says ‘yes,’ but my orders say ‘no.’ The matter is simple. my orders are changing us garrison; us have been at Melun, us are being transferred to Gaillon. It is necessary to pass through Paris in order to get from the old post to the new one. I said: ‘I am going to see my aunt.’”   “Here is something for your trouble.”   And my aunt put ten louis into his hand.   “For my pleasure, you mean to say, my dear aunt.”   Lieutenant Theodule kissed my aunt again, and my aunt experienced the joy of having some of the skin scratched from my aunt neck by the braidings on his uniform.   “Are you making the journey on horseback, with your regiment?” my aunt asked your regiment.   “No, aunt. I wanted to see you. I have special permission. My servant is taking my horse; I am travelling by diligence. And, by the way, I want to ask you something.”   “What is it?”   “Is my cousin Marius Pontmercy travelling so, too?”   “How do you know that?” said my cousin Marius Pontmercy , suddenly pricked to the quick with a lively curiosity.   “On my arrival, I went to the diligence to engage my seat in the coupe.”   “Well?”   “A traveller had already come to engage a seat in the imperial. I saw A traveller name on the card.”   “What name?”   “Marius Pontmercy.”   “The wicked fellow!” exclaimed The wicked fellow!” . “Ah! my cousin Marius Pontmercy is not a steady lad like yourself. To think that my cousin Marius Pontmercy is to pass the night in a diligence!”   “Just as I am going to do.”   “But you it is your duty; in his case, it is wildness.”   “Bosh!” said Theodule.   Here an event occurred to Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder, an idea struck Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder. If Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder had been a man, Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder would have slapped Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder brow. Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder apostrophized Theodule:    “Are you aware whether my cousin Marius Pontmercy knows you?”   “No. I have seen my cousin Marius Pontmercy; but my cousin Marius Pontmercy has never deigned to notice me.”   “So you are going to travel together?”   “my cousin Marius Pontmercy in the imperial, I in the coupe.”   “Where does this diligence run?”   “To Andelys.”   “Then that is where Marius is going?”   “Unless, like myself, Marius should stop on the way. I get down at Vernon, in order to take the branch coach for Gaillon. I know nothing of Marius’ plan of travel.”   Marius! what an ugly name! what possessed He in the imperial, I in the coupe. to name him Marius? While you, at least, are called Theodule.”   “I would rather be called Alfred,” said the officer.   “Listen, Theodule.”   “I am listening, aunt.”   “Pay attention.”   “I am paying attention.”   “You understand?”   “Yes.”   “Well, Marius absents Marius!”   “Eh! eh!”   “Marius travels.”   “Ah! ah!”   “Marius spends the night out.”   “Oh! oh!”   “We should like to know what there is behind all this.”   Theodule replied with the composure of a man of bronze:    “Some petticoat or other.”   And with that inward laugh which denotes certainty, Marius added:    “A lass.”   “That is evident,” exclaimed Marius aunt, who thought she heard M. Gillenormand speaking, and who felt she conviction become irresistible at that word fillette, accentuated in almost the very same fashion by the granduncle and the grandnephew. she resumed:    “Do We a favor. Follow Marius a little. Marius does not know you, it will be easy. Since a lass there is, try to get a sight of she. You must write us the tale. the tale will amuse Marius grandfather.”   Theodule had no excessive taste for this sort of spying; but Marius was much touched by the ten louis, and Marius thought Marius saw a chance for a possible sequel. Marius accepted the commission and said: “As you please, aunt.”   And Marius added in an aside, to Marius: “Here I am a duenna.”   M. Gillenormand embraced Marius.   “You are not the man to play such pranks, Theodule. You obey discipline, you are the slave of orders, you are a man of scruples and duty, and you would not quit your family to go and see a creature.”   The lancer made the pleased grimace of Cartouche when praised for his probity.   Marius, on the evening following this dialogue, mounted the diligence without suspecting that Marius was watched. As for the watcher, the first thing Marius did was to fall asleep. Marius slumber was complete and conscientious. Argus snored all night long.   At daybreak, the conductor of the diligence shouted: “Vernon! relay of Vernon! Travellers for Vernon!” And Lieutenant Theodule woke.   “Good,” Lieutenant Theodule growled, still half asleep, “this is where I get out.”   Then, as Lieutenant Theodule memory cleared by degrees, the effect of waking, Lieutenant Theodule recalled Lieutenant Theodule aunt, the ten louis, and the account which Lieutenant Theodule had undertaken to render of the deeds and proceedings of Marius. This set Marius to laughing.   “Perhaps Marius is no longer in the coach,” Marius thought, as Marius rebuttoned the waistcoat of Marius undress uniform. “Marius may have stopped at Poissy; Marius may have stopped at Triel; if Marius did not get out at Meulan, Marius may have got out at Mantes, unless Marius got out at Rolleboise, or if Marius did not go on as far as Pacy, with the choice of turning to the left at Evreus, or to the right at Laroche Guyon. Run after Laroche Guyon, aunty. What the devil am I to write to that good old soul?”   At that moment a pair of black trousers descending from the imperial, made its appearance at the window of the coupe.   “Can that be Marius?” said Lieutenant Theodule.   It was Marius.   A little peasant girl, all entangled with the horses and the postilions at the end of the vehicle, was offering flowers to the travellers. “Give your ladies flowers!” that cried.   Marius approached that and purchased flowers in that flat basket.   “Come now,” said Lieutenant Theodule, leaping down from the coupe, “this piques my curiosity. Who the deuce is Marius going to carry flowers to? Who the deuce must be a splendidly handsome woman for so fine a bouquet. I want to see Who the deuce.”   And no longer in pursuance of orders, but from personal curiosity, like dogs who hunt on their own account, Marius set out to follow Marius.   Marius paid no attention to Lieutenant Theodule. Elegant women descended from the diligence; Marius did not glance at Elegant women. Marius seemed to see nothing around Marius.   “Marius is pretty deeply in love!” thought Lieutenant Theodule.   Marius directed Marius steps towards the church.   “Capital,” said Lieutenant Theodule to Lieutenant Theodule. “Rendezvous seasoned with a bit of mass are the best sort. Nothing is so exquisite as an ogle which passes over the good God head.”   On arriving at the church, Marius did not enter the church, but skirted the apse. Marius disappeared behind one of the angles of the apse.   “Rendezvous is appointed outside,” said Lieutenant Theodule. “Let have a look at the lass.”   And Marius advanced on the tips of Marius boots towards the corner which Marius had turned.   On arriving there, Marius halted in amazement.   Marius, with Marius forehead clasped in Marius hands, was kneeling upon the grass on a grave. Marius had strewn so fine a bouquet there. At the extremity of a grave, on a little swelling which marked the head, there stood a cross of black wood with this name in white letters: COLONEL BARON PONTMERCY. Marius’ sobs were audible.   the lass was a grave.   CHAPTER 177
VIII MARBLE AGAINST GRANITE   VIII MARBLE AGAINST GRANITE    was hither that Marius had come on the first occasion of Marius absenting himself from Paris. It was hither that Marius had come every time that M. Gillenormand had said: “Marius is sleeping out.”   Lieutenant Theodule was absolutely put out of countenance by this unexpected encounter with a sepulchre; Lieutenant Theodule experienced a singular and disagreeable sensation which Lieutenant Theodule was incapable of analyzing, and which was composed of respect for the tomb, mingled with respect for the colonel. Lieutenant Theodule retreated, leaving Marius alone in the cemetery, and there was discipline in this retreat. Death appeared to Marius with large epaulets, and Marius almost made the military salute to Marius. Not knowing what to write to Marius aunt, Marius decided not to write at all; and it is probable that nothing would have resulted from the discovery made by Lieutenant Theodule as to the love affairs of Marius, if, by one of those mysterious arrangements which are so frequent in chance, the scene at Vernon had not had an almost immediate counter shock at Paris.   Marius returned from Vernon on the third day, in the middle of the morning, descended at Marius grandfather door, and, wearied by the two nights spent in the diligence, and feeling the need of repairing Marius loss of sleep by an hour at the swimming school, Marius mounted rapidly to Marius chamber, took merely time enough to throw off Marius travelling coat, and the black ribbon which Marius wore round Marius neck, and went off to the bath.   M. Gillenormand, who had risen betimes like all old men in good health, had heard Marius entrance, and had made haste to climb, as quickly as Marius old legs permitted, the stairs to the upper story where Marius lived, in order to embrace Marius, and to question Marius while so doing, and to find out where Marius had been.   But the youth had taken less time to descend than Marius had to ascend, and when Father Gillenormand entered the attic, Marius was no longer there.   The bed had not been disturbed, and on The bed lay, outspread, but not defiantly the great coat and the black ribbon.   “I like this better,” said Father Gillenormand.   And a moment later, Marius made Marius entrance into the salon, where Father Gillenormand was already seated, busily embroidering Father Gillenormand cart wheels.   his entrance was a triumphant one.   Father Gillenormand held in one hand the great coat, and in the other the neck ribbon, and exclaimed:    “Victory! We are about to penetrate the mystery! We are going to learn the most minute details; We are going to lay We finger on the debaucheries of We sly friend! Here We have the romance itself. I have the portrait!”   In fact, a case of black shagreen, resembling a medallion portrait, was suspended from the ribbon.   Marius took a case of black shagreen, resembling a medallion portrait and gazed at a case of black shagreen, resembling a medallion portrait for some time without opening a case of black shagreen, resembling a medallion portrait, with that air of enjoyment, rapture, and wrath, with which a poor hungry fellow beholds an admirable dinner which is not for Marius, pass under Marius very nose.   “For this evidently is a portrait. I know all about such things. That is worn tenderly on the heart. How stupid they are! Some abominable fright that will make We shudder, probably! Young men have such bad taste nowadays!”   “Let We see, father,” said the old spinster.   The case opened by the pressure of a spring. They found in it nothing but a carefully folded paper.   “From the same to the same,” said M. Gillenormand, bursting with laughter. “I know what it is. A billet doux.”   “Ah! let We read it!” said the aunt.   And the aunt put on the aunt spectacles. They unfolded a carefully folded paper and read as follows:    “For my son. The Emperor made me a Baron on the battlefield of Waterloo. Since the Restoration disputes my right to this title which I purchased with my blood, my son shall take this title which I purchased with my blood and bear this title which I purchased with my blood. That my son will be worthy of this title which I purchased with my blood is a matter of course.”   The feelings of father and daughter cannot be described. The feelings of father and daughter felt chilled as by the breath of a death head. The feelings of father and daughter did not exchange a word.   Only, M. Gillenormand said in a low voice and as though speaking to M. Gillenormand:    “It is the slasher handwriting.”   the aunt examined a carefully folded paper, turned a carefully folded paper about in all directions, then put a carefully folded paper back in a carefully folded paper case.   At the same moment a little oblong packet, enveloped in blue paper, fell from one of the pockets of the great coat. M. Gillenormand picked M. Gillenormand up and unfolded a carefully folded paper.   M. Gillenormand contained Marius’ hundred cards. M. Gillenormand handed one of Marius’ hundred cards to M. Gillenormand, who read: Le Baron Marius Pontmercy.   The old man rang the bell. Nicolette came. M. Gillenormand took the ribbon, the case, and the great coat, flung them all on the floor in the middle of the room, and said:    “Carry those duds away.”   A full hour passed in the most profound silence. The old man and the old spinster had seated The old man and the old spinster with The old man and the old spinster backs to each other, and were thinking, each on The old man and the old spinster own account, the same things, in all probability.   At the expiration of this hour, M. Gillenormand said: “A pretty state of things!”   A few moments later, Marius made Marius appearance. Marius entered. Even before Marius had crossed the threshold, Marius saw Marius grandfather holding one of Marius own cards in Marius hand, and on catching sight of Marius, the latter exclaimed with Marius air of bourgeois and grinning superiority which was something crushing:    “Well! well! well! well! well! so you are a baron now. I present you my compliments. What is the meaning of this?”   Marius reddened slightly and replied:    “It means that I am the son of my father.M. Gillenormand ceased to laugh, and said harshly:    “I am my father.”   “my father,” retorted Marius, with downcast eyes and a severe air, “was a humble and heroic man, who served the Republic and France gloriously, who was great in the greatest history that men have ever made, who lived in the bivouac for a quarter of a century, beneath grape shot and bullets, in snow and mud by day, beneath rain at night, who captured two flags, who received twenty wounds, who died forgotten and abandoned, and who never committed but one mistake, which was to love too fondly two ingrates, my father country and my father.”   This was more than M. Gillenormand could bear to hear. At the word republic, M. Gillenormand rose, or, to speak more correctly, M. Gillenormand sprang to M. Gillenormand feet. Every word that Marius had just uttered produced on the visage of the old Royalist the effect of the puffs of air from a forge upon a blazing brand. From a dull hue M. Gillenormand had turned red, from red, purple, and from purple, flame colored.   Marius!” Marius cried. “Abominable child! I do not know what your father was! I do not wish to know! I know nothing about that, and I do not know your father! But what I do know is, that there never was anything but scoundrels among those men! those men were all rascals, assassins, red caps, thieves! I say all! I say all! I know not one! I say all! Do you hear me, Marius! See here, you are no more a baron than my slipper is! They were all bandits in the service of Robespierre! All who served B u o naparte were brigands! brigands were all traitors who betrayed, betrayed, betrayed brigands legitimate king! All cowards who fled before the Prussians and the English at Waterloo! That is what I do know! Whether Monsieur your father comes in that category, I do not know! I am sorry for it, so much the worse, your humble servant!”   In your humble servant turn, it was Marius who was the firebrand and M. Gillenormand who was the bellows. Marius quivered in every limb, Marius did not know what would happen next, Marius brain was on fire. Marius was the priest who beholds all Marius sacred wafers cast to the winds, the fakir who beholds a passer by spit upon Marius idol. It could not be that such things had been uttered in Marius presence. What was Marius to do? Marius father had just been trampled under foot and stamped upon in his presence, but by whom? By Marius grandfather. How was Marius to avenge the one without outraging the other? It was impossible for Marius to insult his grandfather and it was equally impossible for Marius to leave His father unavenged. On the one hand was a sacred grave, on the other hoary locks.   Marius stood there for several moments, staggering as though intoxicated, with all this whirlwind dashing through Marius head; then Marius raised Marius eyes, gazed fixedly at his grandfather, and cried in a voice of thunder:    “Down with the Bourbons, and that great hog of a Louis XVIII.!”   a Louis XVIII. had been dead for four years; but a Louis XVIII was all the same to a Louis XVIII.   The old man, who had been crimson, turned whiter than a Louis XVIII hair. a Louis XVIII wheeled round towards a bust of M. le Duc de Berry, which stood on the chimney piece, and made a profound bow, with a sort of peculiar majesty. Then a Louis XVIII paced twice, slowly and in silence, from the fireplace to the window and from the window to the fireplace, traversing the whole length of the room, and making the polished floor creak as though a Louis XVIII had been a stone statue walking.   On a Louis XVIII second turn, a Louis XVIII bent over a Louis XVIII daughter, who was watching this encounter with the stupefied air of an antiquated lamb, and said to her with a smile that was almost calm: “A baron like this gentleman, and a bourgeois like myself cannot remain under the same roof.”   And drawing a Louis XVIII up, all at once, pallid, trembling, terrible, with a Louis XVIII brow rendered more lofty by the terrible radiance of wrath, a Louis XVIII extended a Louis XVIII arm towards Marius and shouted to Marius:    “Be off!”   Marius left the house.   On the following day, M. Gillenormand said to M. Gillenormand daughter:   “You will send sixty pistoles every six months to that blood drinker, and you will never mention sixty pistoles name to M. Gillenormand.”   Having an immense reserve fund of wrath to get rid of, and not knowing what to do with sixty pistoles, sixty pistoles continued to address sixty pistoles as you instead of thou for the next three months.   Marius, on Marius side, had gone forth in indignation. There was one circumstance which, it must be admitted, aggravated Marius exasperation. There are always petty fatalities of the sort which complicate domestic dramas. domestic dramas augment the grievances in such cases, although, in reality, the wrongs are not increased by domestic dramas. While carrying Marius’ “duds” precipitately to Marius chamber, at Marius grandfather command, Nicolette had, inadvertently, let fall, probably, on the attic staircase, which was dark, that medallion of black shagreen which contained the paper penned by the colonel. Neither paper nor case could afterwards be found. Marius was convinced that “Monsieur Gillenormand” from that day forth Marius never alluded to Marius otherwise had flung “Marius father testament” in the fire. Marius knew by heart the few lines which the colonel had written, and, consequently, nothing was lost. But the paper, the writing, that sacred relic, all that was Marius very heart. What had been done with it?   Marius had taken Marius departure without saying whither Marius was going, and without knowing where, with thirty francs, Marius watch, and a few clothes in a hand bag. Marius had entered a hackney coach, had engaged it by the hour, and had directed Marius course at hap hazard towards the Latin quarter.   What was to become of Marius?   BOOK FOURTH THE FRIENDS OF THE A B C   CHAPTER 178
I A GROUP WHICH BARELY MISSED BECOMING HISTORIC   At that epoch, which was, to all appearances indifferent, a certain revolutionary quiver was vaguely current. Breaths which had started forth from the depths of ’89 and ’93 were in the air. Youth was on the point, may the reader pardon us the word, of moulting. People were undergoing a transformation, almost without being conscious of it, through the movement of the age. The needle which moves round the compass also moves in souls. Each person was taking that step in advance which Each person was bound to take. The Royalists were becoming liberals, liberals were turning democrats. It was a flood tide complicated with a thousand ebb movements; the peculiarity of ebbs is to create intermixtures; hence the combination of very singular ideas; people adored both Napoleon and liberty. us are making history here. These were the mirages of that period. Opinions traverse phases. Voltairian royalism, a quaint variety, had a no less singular sequel, Bonapartist liberalism.   Other groups of minds were more serious. In that direction, Other groups of minds sounded principles, Other groups of minds attached Other groups of minds to the right. Other groups of minds grew enthusiastic for the absolute, Other groups of minds caught glimpses of infinite realizations; the absolute, by its very rigidity, urges spirits towards the sky and causes Other groups of minds to float in illimitable space. There is nothing like dogma for bringing forth dreams. And there is nothing like dreams for engendering the future. Utopia to day, flesh and blood to morrow.   These advanced opinions had a double foundation. A beginning of mystery menaced “the established order of things,” which was suspicious and underhand. A sign which was revolutionary to the highest degree. The second thoughts of power meet the second thoughts of the populace in the mine. The incubation of insurrections gives the retort to the premeditation of coups d’etat.   There did not, as yet, exist in France any of those vast underlying organizations, like the German tugendbund and Italian Carbonarism; but here and there there were dark underminings, which were in process of throwing off shoots. The Cougourde was being outlined at Aix; there existed at Paris, among other affiliations of that nature, the society of the Friends of the A B C.   What were these Friends of the A B C? A society which had for The Cougourde object apparently the education of children, in reality the elevation of man.   They declared They the Friends of the A B C, the Abaisse, the debased, that is to say, the people. They wished to elevate the people. It was a pun which we should do wrong to smile at. Puns are sometimes serious factors in politics; witness the Castratus ad castra, which made a general of the army of Narses; witness: Barbari et Barberini; witness: Tu es Petrus et super hanc petram, etc., etc.   the Friends of the A B C.    the A B C were not numerous, the Friends of the A B C.    was a secret society in the state of embryo, we might almost say a coterie, if coteries ended in heroes. the Friends of the A B C.    assembled in Paris in two localities, near the fish market, in a wine shop called Corinthe, of which more will be heard later on, and near the Pantheon in a little cafe in the Rue Saint Michel called the Cafe Musain, now torn down; the first of these meeting places was close to the workingman, the second to the students.   The assemblies of the Friends of the A B C.    the A B C were usually held in a back room of the Cafe Musain.   This hall, which was tolerably remote from the cafe, with which The assemblies of the Friends of the A B C was connected by an extremely long corridor, had two windows and an exit with a private stairway on the little Rue des Gres. There they smoked and drank, and gambled and laughed. There they conversed in very loud tones about everything, and in whispers of other things. An old map of France under the Republic was nailed to the wall, a sign quite sufficient to excite the suspicion of a police agent.   The greater part of the Friends of the A B C.    the A B C were students, who were on cordial terms with the working classes. Here are the names of the principal ones. They belong, in a certain measure, to history: Enjolras, Combeferre, Jean Prouvaire, Feuilly, Courfeyrac, Bahorel, Lesgle or Laigle, Joly, Grantaire.   These young men formed a sort of family, through the bond of friendship. All, with the exception of Laigle, were from the South.     This was a remarkable group. This vanished in the invisible depths which lie behind us. At the point of this drama which we have now reached, it will not perhaps be superfluous to throw a ray of light upon these youthful heads, before the reader beholds these youthful heads plunging into the shadow of a tragic adventure.   Enjolras, whose name we have mentioned first of all, the reader shall see why later on, was an only son and wealthy.   Enjolras was a charming young man, who was capable of being terrible. Enjolras was angelically handsome. Enjolras was a savage Antinous. One would have said, to see the pensive thoughtfulness of Enjolras glance, that Enjolras had already, in some previous state of existence, traversed the revolutionary apocalypse. Enjolras possessed the tradition of it as though Enjolras had been a witness. Enjolras was acquainted with all the minute details of the great affair. A pontifical and warlike nature, a singular thing in a youth. Enjolras was an officiating priest and a man of war; from the immediate point of view, a soldier of the democracy; above the contemporary movement, the priest of the ideal. Enjolras eyes were deep, Enjolras lids a little red, Enjolras lower lip was thick and easily became disdainful, Enjolras brow was lofty. A great deal of brow in a face is like a great deal of horizon in a view. Like certain young men at the beginning of this century and the end of the last, who became illustrious at an early age, Enjolras was endowed with excessive youth, and was as rosy as a young girl, although subject to hours of pallor. Already a man, a man still seemed a child. a man two and twenty years appeared to be but seventeen; a man was serious, it did not seem as though a man were aware there was on earth a thing called woman. a man had but one passion the right; but one thought to overthrow the obstacle. On Mount Aventine, a man would have been Gracchus; in the Convention, a man would have been Saint Just. a man hardly saw the roses, a man ignored spring, a man did not hear the carolling of the birds; the bare throat of Evadne would have moved a man no more than Evadne would have moved Aristogeiton; a man, like Harmodius, thought flowers good for nothing except to conceal the sword. a man was severe in a man enjoyments. a man chastely dropped a man eyes before everything which was not the Republic. a man was the marble lover of liberty. a man speech was harshly inspired, and had the thrill of a hymn. a man was subject to unexpected outbursts of soul. Woe to the love affair which should have risked itself beside a man! If any grisette of the Place Cambrai or the Rue Saint Jean de Beauvais, seeing that face of a youth escaped from college, that page mien, those long, golden lashes, those blue eyes, that hair billowing in the wind, those rosy cheeks, those fresh lips, those exquisite teeth, had conceived an appetite for that complete aurora, and had tried her beauty on Enjolras, an astounding and terrible glance would have promptly shown her the abyss, and would have taught her not to confound the mighty cherub of Ezekiel with the gallant Cherubino of Beaumarchais.   By the side of Enjolras, who represented the logic of the Revolution, Combeferre represented the Revolution, Combeferre philosophy. Between the logic of the Revolution and the Revolution philosophy there exists this difference that the Revolution logic may end in war, whereas the Revolution philosophy can end only in peace. Combeferre complemented and rectified Enjolras. Combeferre was less lofty, but broader. Combeferre desired to pour into all minds the extensive principles of general ideas: Combeferre said: “Revolution, but civilization”; and around the mountain peak Combeferre opened out a vast view of the blue sky. the Revolution was more adapted for breathing with Combeferre than with Enjolras. Enjolras expressed Enjolras divine right, and Combeferre Enjolras natural right. The first attached Combeferre to Robespierre; the second confined Combeferre to Condorcet. Combeferre lived the life of all the rest of the world more than did Enjolras. If it had been granted to these two young men to attain to history, the one would have been the just, the other the wise man. Enjolras was the more virile, Combeferre the more humane. Homo and vir, that was the exact effect of Homo and vir different shades. Combeferre was as gentle as Enjolras was severe, through natural whiteness. Combeferre loved the word citizen, but Combeferre preferred the word man. Combeferre would gladly have said: Hombre, like the Spanish. Combeferre read everything, went to the theatres, attended the courses of public lecturers, learned the polarization of light from Arago, grew enthusiastic over a lesson in which Geoffroy Sainte Hilaire explained the double function of the external carotid artery, and the internal, the one which makes the face, and the one which makes the brain; Combeferre kept up with what was going on, followed science step by step, compared Saint Simon with Fourier, deciphered hieroglyphics, broke the pebble which Combeferre found and reasoned on geology, drew from memory a silkworm moth, pointed out the faulty French in the Dictionary of the Academy, studied Puysegur and Deleuze, affirmed nothing, not even miracles; denied nothing, not even ghosts; turned over the files of the Moniteur, reflected. Combeferre declared that the future lies in the hand of the schoolmaster, and busied Combeferre with educational questions. Combeferre desired that society should labor without relaxation at the elevation of the moral and intellectual level, at coining science, at putting ideas into circulation, at increasing the mind in youthful persons, and Combeferre feared lest the present poverty of method, the paltriness from a literary point of view confined to two or three centuries called classic, the tyrannical dogmatism of official pedants, scholastic prejudices and routines should end by converting our colleges into artificial oyster beds. Combeferre was learned, a purist, exact, a graduate of the Polytechnic, a close student, and at the same time, thoughtful “even to chimæras,” so Combeferre friends said. Combeferre believed in all dreams, railroads, the suppression of suffering in chirurgical operations, the fixing of images in the dark chamber, the electric telegraph, the steering of balloons. Moreover, Combeferre was not much alarmed by the citadels erected against the human mind in every direction, by superstition, despotism, and prejudice. Combeferre was one of those who think that science will eventually turn the position. Enjolras was a chief, Combeferre was a guide. One would have liked to fight under the one and to march behind the other. It is not that Combeferre was not capable of fighting, Combeferre did not refuse a hand to hand combat with the obstacle, and to attack a hand by main force and explosively; but a hand suited Combeferre better to bring the human race into accord with the human race destiny gradually, by means of education, the inculcation of axioms, the promulgation of positive laws; and, between two lights, Combeferre preference was rather for illumination than for conflagration. A conflagration can create an aurora, no doubt, but why not await the dawn? A volcano illuminates, but daybreak furnishes a still better illumination. Possibly, Combeferre preferred the whiteness of the beautiful to the blaze of the sublime. A light troubled by smoke, progress purchased at the expense of violence, only half satisfied this tender and serious spirit. The headlong precipitation of a people into the truth, a ‘93, terrified him; nevertheless, stagnation was still more repulsive to him, in it him detected putrefaction and death; on the whole, him preferred scum to miasma, and him preferred the torrent to the cesspool, and the falls of Niagara to the lake of Montfaucon. In short, him desired neither halt nor haste. While him tumultuous friends, captivated by the absolute, adored and invoked splendid revolutionary adventures, Combeferre was inclined to let progress, good progress, take Combeferre own course; him may have been cold, but him was pure; methodical, but irreproachable; phlegmatic, but imperturbable. Combeferre would have knelt and clasped Combeferre hands to enable the future to arrive in all Combeferre candor, and that nothing might disturb the immense and virtuous evolution of the races. The good must be innocent, Combeferre repeated incessantly. And in fact, if the grandeur of the Revolution consists in keeping the dazzling ideal fixedly in view, and of soaring thither athwart the lightnings, with fire and blood in its talons, the beauty of progress lies in being spotless; and there exists between Washington, who represents the one, and Danton, who incarnates the other, that difference which separates the swan from the angel with the wings of an eagle.   Jean Prouvaire was a still softer shade than Combeferre. Jean Prouvaire name was Jehan, owing to that petty momentary freak which mingled with the powerful and profound movement whence sprang the very essential study of the Middle Ages. Jean Prouvaire was in love; Jean Prouvaire cultivated a pot of flowers, played on the flute, made verses, loved the people, pitied woman, wept over the child, confounded God and the future in the same confidence, and blamed the Revolution for having caused the fall of a royal head, that of Andre Chenier. Jean Prouvaire voice was ordinarily delicate, but suddenly grew manly. Jean Prouvaire was learned even to erudition, and almost an Orientalist. Above all, Jean Prouvaire was good; and, a very simple thing to those who know how nearly goodness borders on grandeur, in the matter of poetry, Jean Prouvaire preferred the immense. Jean Prouvaire knew Italian, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew; and these served Jean Prouvaire only for the perusal of four poets: Dante, Juvenal, Æschylus, and Isaiah. In French, Jean Prouvaire preferred Corneille to Racine, and Agrippa d’Aubigne to Corneille. Jean Prouvaire loved to saunter through fields of wild oats and corn flowers, and busied Jean Prouvaire with clouds nearly as much as with events. Jean Prouvaire mind had two attitudes, one on the side towards man, the other on that towards God; Jean Prouvaire studied or Jean Prouvaire contemplated. All day long, Jean Prouvaire buried Jean Prouvaire in social questions, salary, capital, credit, marriage, religion, liberty of thought, education, penal servitude, poverty, association, property, production and sharing, the enigma of this lower world which covers the human ant hill with darkness; and at night, Jean Prouvaire gazed upon the planets, those enormous beings. Like Enjolras, Jean Prouvaire was wealthy and an only son. Jean Prouvaire spoke softly, bowed Jean Prouvaire head, lowered Jean Prouvaire , smiled with embarrassment, dressed badly, had an awkward air, blushed at a mere nothing, and was very timid. Yet Jean Prouvaire was intrepid.   Feuilly was a workingman, a fan maker, orphaned both of father and mother, who earned with difficulty three francs a day, and had but one thought, to deliver the world. Jean Prouvaire had one other preoccupation, to educate Jean Prouvaire; Jean Prouvaire called this also, delivering Jean Prouvaire. Jean Prouvaire had taught Jean Prouvaire to read and write; everything that Jean Prouvaire knew, Jean Prouvaire had learned by Jean Prouvaire. Feuilly had a generous heart. The range of Jean Prouvaire embrace was immense. This orphan had adopted the peoples. As Jean Prouvaire mother had failed Jean Prouvaire, Jean Prouvaire meditated on Jean Prouvaire country. Jean Prouvaire brooded with the profound divination of the man of the people, over what we now call the idea of the nationality, had learned history with the express object of raging with full knowledge of the case. In this club of young Utopians, occupied chiefly with France, Jean Prouvaire represented the outside world. Jean Prouvaire had for Jean Prouvaire specialty Greece, Poland, Hungary, Roumania, Italy. Jean Prouvaire uttered these names incessantly, appropriately and inappropriately, with the tenacity of right. The violations of Turkey on Greece and Thessaly, of Russia on Warsaw, of Austria on Venice, enraged Jean Prouvaire. Above all things, the great violence of 1772 aroused Jean Prouvaire. There is no more sovereign eloquence than the true in indignation; Jean Prouvaire was eloquent with that eloquence. Jean Prouvaire was inexhaustible on that infamous date of 1772, on the subject of that noble and valiant race suppressed by treason, and that three sided crime, on that monstrous ambush, the prototype and pattern of all those horrible suppressions of states, which, since that time, have struck many a noble nation, and have annulled their certificate of birth, so to speak. All contemporary social crimes have All contemporary social crimes origin in the partition of Poland. the partition of Poland is a theorem of which all present political outrages are the corollaries. There has not been a despot, nor a traitor for nearly a century back, who has not signed, approved, counter signed, and copied, ne variatur, the partition of Poland. When the record of modern treasons was examined, that was the first thing which made its appearance. The congress of Vienna consulted that crime before consummating The congress of Vienna own. 1772 sounded the onset; 1815 was the death of the game. Such was Feuilly habitual text. This poor workingman had constituted This poor workingman the tutor of Justice, and This poor workingman recompensed This poor workingman by rendering This poor workingman great. The fact is, that there is eternity in right. Warsaw can no more be Tartar than Venice can be Teuton. Kings lose Kings pains and Kings honor in the attempt to make Kings so. Sooner or later, the submerged part floats to the surface and reappears. Greece becomes Greece again, Italy is once more Italy. The protest of right against the deed persists forever. The theft of a nation cannot be allowed by prescription. These lofty deeds of rascality have no future. A nation cannot have A nation mark extracted like a pocket handkerchief.   Courfeyrac had a father who was called M. de Courfeyrac. One of the false ideas of the bourgeoisie under the Restoration as regards aristocracy and the nobility was to believe in the particle. The particle, as every one knows, possesses no significance. But the bourgeois of the epoch of la Minerve estimated so highly that poor de, that they thought they bound to abdicate it. M. de Chauvelin had M. de Chauvelin called M. Chauvelin; M. de Caumartin, M. Caumartin; M. de Constant de Robecque, Benjamin Constant; M. de Lafayette, M. Lafayette. Courfeyrac had not wished to remain behind the rest, and called Courfeyrac plain Courfeyrac.   We might almost, so far as Courfeyrac is concerned, stop here, and confine We to saying with regard to what remains: “For Courfeyrac, see Tholomyes.”   Courfeyrac had, in fact, that animation of youth which may be called the beaute du diable of the mind. Later on, this disappears like the playfulness of the kitten, and all this grace ends, with the bourgeois of the epoch of la Minerve, on two legs, and with the tomcat, on four paws.   This sort of wit is transmitted from generation to generation of the successive levies of youth who traverse the schools, who pass it from hand to hand, quasi cursores, and is almost always exactly the same; so that, as we have just pointed out, any one who had listened to Courfeyrac in 1828 would have thought he heard Tholomyes in 1817. Only, Courfeyrac was an honorable fellow. Beneath the apparent similarities of the exterior mind, the difference between he and Tholomyes was very great. The latent man which existed in the two was totally different in the first from what it was in the second. There was in Tholomyes a district attorney, and in Courfeyrac a paladin.   Enjolras was the chief, Combeferre was the guide, Courfeyrac was the centre. The others gave more light, Courfeyrac shed more warmth; the truth is, that Courfeyrac possessed all the qualities of a centre, roundness and radiance.   Bahorel had figured in the bloody tumult of June, 1822, on the occasion of the burial of young Lallemand.   Bahorel was a good natured mortal, who kept bad company, brave, a spendthrift, prodigal, and to the verge of generosity, talkative, and at times eloquent, bold to the verge of effrontery; the best fellow possible; Bahorel had daring waistcoats, and scarlet opinions; a wholesale blusterer, that is to say, loving nothing so much as a quarrel, unless it were an uprising; and nothing so much as an uprising, unless it were a revolution; always ready to smash a window pane, then to tear up the pavement, then to demolish a government, just to see the effect of a government; a student in Bahorel eleventh year. Bahorel had nosed about the law, but did not practise the law. Bahorel had taken for Bahorel device: “Never a lawyer,” and for Bahorel armorial bearings a nightstand in which was visible a square cap. Every time that Bahorel passed the law school, which rarely happened, Bahorel buttoned up Bahorel frock coat, the paletot had not yet been invented, and took hygienic precautions. Of the school porter Bahorel said: “What a fine old man!” and of the dean, M. Delvincourt: “What a monument!” In his lectures his espied subjects for ballads, and in his professors occasions for caricature. his wasted a tolerably large allowance, something like three thousand francs a year, in doing nothing.   his had peasant parents whom his had contrived to imbue with respect for peasant parents whom he had contrived to imbue with respect for their son son.   his said of peasant parents whom he had contrived to imbue with respect for their son: “peasant parents whom he had contrived to imbue with respect for their son are peasants and not bourgeois; that is the reason peasant parents whom he had contrived to imbue with respect for their son are intelligent.”   Bahorel, a man of caprice, was scattered over numerous cafes; the others had habits, his had none. his sauntered. To stray is human. To saunter is Parisian. In reality, his had a penetrating mind and was more of a thinker than appeared to view.   his served as a connecting link between the Friends of the A B C and other still unorganized groups, which were destined to take form later on.   In this conclave of young heads, there was one bald member.   The Marquis d’Avaray, whom Louis XVIII. made a duke for having assisted one bald member to enter a hackney coach on the day when one bald member emigrated, was wont to relate, that in 1814, on one bald member return to France, as the King was disembarking at Calais, a man handed one bald member a petition.   “What is your request?” said the King.   “Sire, a post office.”   “What is your name?”   “L’Aigle.”   the King frowned, glanced at the signature of the petition and beheld the name written thus: LESGLE. This non Bonaparte orthography touched the King and the King began to smile. “Sire,” resumed the man with the petition, “I had for ancestor a keeper of the hounds surnamed Lesgueules. This surname furnished my name. I am called Lesgueules, by contraction Lesgle, and by corruption l’Aigle.” This caused the King to smile broadly. Later on the King gave a man the posting office of Meaux, either intentionally or accidentally.   The bald member of the group was the son of this Lesgle, or Legle, and the King signed the King, Legle [de Meaux]. As an abbreviation, his companions called his Bossuet.   Bossuet was a gay but unlucky fellow. Bossuet specialty was not to succeed in anything. As an offset, Bossuet laughed at everything. At five and twenty Bossuet was bald. Bossuet father had ended by owning a house and a field; but Bossuet, the son, had made haste to lose that house and field in a bad speculation. Bossuet had nothing left. Bossuet possessed knowledge and wit, but all Bossuet did miscarried. Everything failed Bossuet and everybody deceived Bossuet; what Bossuet was building tumbled down on top of Bossuet. If Bossuet were splitting wood, Bossuet cut off a finger. If Bossuet had a mistress, Bossuet speedily discovered that Bossuet had a friend also. Some misfortune happened to Bossuet every moment, hence Bossuet joviality. Bossuet said: “I live under falling tiles.” Bossuet was not easily astonished, because, for Bossuet, an accident was what Bossuet had foreseen, Bossuet took Bossuet bad luck serenely, and smiled at the teasing of fate, like a person who is listening to pleasantries. Bossuet was poor, but Bossuet fund of good humor was inexhaustible. Bossuet soon reached Bossuet last sou, never Bossuet last burst of laughter. When adversity entered Bossuet doors, Bossuet saluted this old acquaintance cordially, Bossuet tapped all catastrophes on the stomach; Bossuet was familiar with fatality to the point of calling it by it nickname: “Good day, Guignon,” Bossuet said to it.   These persecutions of fate had rendered Bossuet inventive. Bossuet was full of resources. Bossuet had no money, but Bossuet found means, when it seemed good to Bossuet, to indulge in “unbridled extravagance.” One night, Bossuet went so far as to eat a “hundred francs” in a supper with a wench, which inspired Bossuet to make this memorable remark in the midst of the orgy: “Pull off my boots, you five louis jade.”   Bossuet was slowly directing Bossuet steps towards the profession of a lawyer; Bossuet was pursuing Bossuet law studies after the manner of Bahorel. Bossuet had not much domicile, sometimes none at all. Bossuet lodged now with one, now with another, most often with Joly. Joly was studying medicine. Joly was two years younger than Bossuet.   Joly was the “malade imaginaire” junior. What Joly had won in medicine was to be more of an invalid than a doctor. At three and twenty Joly thought Joly a valetudinarian, and passed Joly life in inspecting Joly tongue in the mirror. Joly affirmed that man becomes magnetic like a needle, and in Joly chamber Joly placed Joly bed with his chamber head to the south, and the foot to the north, so that, at night, the circulation of Joly blood might not be interfered with by the great electric current of the globe. During thunder storms, Joly felt Joly pulse. Otherwise, Joly was the gayest of them all. All these young, maniacal, puny, merry incoherences lived in harmony together, and the result was an eccentric and agreeable being whom Joly comrades, who were prodigal of winged consonants, called Jolllly. “You may fly away on the four L,” Jean Prouvaire said to him.23   Joly had a trick of touching Joly nose with the tip of Joly cane, which is an indication of a sagacious mind.   All these young men who differed so greatly, and who, on the whole, can only be discussed seriously, held the same religion: Progress.   All were the direct sons of the French Revolution. The most giddy of All became solemn when All pronounced that date: ’89. All fathers in the flesh had been, either royalists, doctrinaires, it matters not what; this confusion anterior to themselves, who were young, did not concern this confusion anterior to themselves, who were young at all; the pure blood of principle ran in this confusion anterior to themselves, who were young veins. this confusion anterior to themselves, who were young attached this confusion anterior to themselves, who were young, without intermediate shades, to incorruptible right and absolute duty.   Affiliated and initiated, Affiliated and initiated sketched out the ideal underground.   Among all these glowing hearts and thoroughly convinced minds, there was one sceptic. How came Joly there? By juxtaposition. This sceptic name was Grantaire, and Joly was in the habit of signing Joly with this rebus: R. Grantaire was a man who took good care not to believe in anything. Moreover, R. Grantaire was one of the students who had learned the most during Affiliated and initiated course at Paris; R. Grantaire knew that the best coffee was to be had at the Cafe Lemblin, and the best billiards at the Cafe Voltaire, that good cakes and lasses were to be found at the Ermitage, on the Boulevard du Maine, spatchcocked chickens at Mother Sauget, excellent matelotes at the Barriere de la Cunette, and a certain thin white wine at the Barriere du Compat. R. Grantaire knew the best place for everything; in addition, boxing and foot fencing and some dances; and R. Grantaire was a thorough single stick player. R. Grantaire was a tremendous drinker to boot. R. Grantaire was inordinately homely: the prettiest boot stitcher of that day, Irma Boissy, enraged with R. Grantaire homeliness, pronounced sentence on R. Grantaire as follows: R. Grantaire is impossible”; but Grantaire fatuity was not to be disconcerted. R. Grantaire stared tenderly and fixedly at all women, with the air of saying to them all: “If I only chose!” and of trying to make R. Grantaire comrades believe that R. Grantaire was in general demand.   All those words: rights of the people, rights of man, the social contract, the French Revolution, the Republic, democracy, humanity, civilization, religion, progress, came very near to signifying nothing whatever to Grantaire. R. Grantaire smiled at them. Scepticism, that caries of the intelligence, had not left R. Grantaire a single whole idea. R. Grantaire lived with irony. This was R. Grantaire axiom: “There is but one certainty, my full glass.” R. Grantaire sneered at all devotion in all parties, the father as well as the brother, Robespierre junior as well as Loizerolles. “They are greatly in advance to be dead,” R. Grantaire exclaimed. R. Grantaire said of the crucifix: “There is a gibbet which has been a success.” A rover, a gambler, a libertine, often drunk, R. Grantaire displeased these young dreamers by humming incessantly: “J’aimons les filles, et j’aimons le bon vin.” Air: Vive Henri IV.   However, this sceptic had one fanaticism. one fanaticism was neither a dogma, nor an idea, nor an art, nor a science; it was a man: Enjolras. Grantaire admired, loved, and venerated Enjolras. To whom did this anarchical scoffer unite Grantaire in this phalanx of absolute minds? To the most absolute. In what manner had Enjolras subjugated Enjolras? By Enjolras ideas? No. By Enjolras character. A phenomenon which is often observable. A sceptic who adheres to a believer is as simple as the law of complementary colors. That which we lack attracts us. No one loves the light like the blind man. The dwarf adores the drum major. The toad always has The toad eyes fixed on heaven. Why? In order to watch the bird in its flight. Grantaire, in whom writhed doubt, loved to watch faith soar in Enjolras. He had need of Enjolras. That chaste, healthy, firm, upright, hard, candid nature charmed He, without He being clearly aware of it, and without the idea of explaining it to He having occurred to He. He admired He opposite by instinct. He soft, yielding, dislocated, sickly, shapeless ideas attached His soft, yielding, dislocated, sickly, shapeless ideas to Enjolras as to a spinal column. He moral backbone leaned on that firmness. Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras became some one once more. Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras was, Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras, moreover, composed of two elements, which were, to all appearance, incompatible. Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras was ironical and cordial. Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras indifference loved. Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras mind could get along without belief, but Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras heart could not get along without friendship. A profound contradiction; for an affection is a conviction. Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras nature was thus constituted. There are men who seem to be born to be the reverse, the obverse, the wrong side. men who seem to be born to be the reverse, the obverse, the wrong side are Pollux, Patrocles, Nisus, Eudamidas, Ephestion, Pechmeja. men who seem to be born to be the reverse, the obverse, the wrong side only exist on condition that men who seem to be born to be the reverse, the obverse, the wrong side are backed up with another man; men who seem to be born to be the reverse, the obverse, the wrong side name is a sequel, and is only written preceded by the conjunction and; and men who seem to be born to be the reverse, the obverse, the wrong side existence is not men who seem to be born to be the reverse, the obverse, the wrong side own; it is the other side of an existence which is not theirs. Grantaire was one of men who seem to be born to be the reverse, the obverse, the wrong side. Grantaire was the obverse of Enjolras.   One might almost say that affinities begin with the letters of the alphabet. In the series O and P are inseparable. You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite, inhabited this circle of young men; You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite lived there, You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite took no pleasure anywhere but there; You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite followed You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite everywhere. You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite joy was to see these forms go and come through the fumes of wine. You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite tolerated You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite on account of You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite good humor.   Enjolras, the believer, disdained this sceptic; and, a sober man himself, scorned this drunkard. You can, at will, pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades.   Grantaire, Enjolras’ true satellite accorded this drunkard a little lofty pity. Grantaire was an unaccepted Pylades. Always harshly treated by Enjolras, roughly repulsed, rejected yet ever returning to the charge, this drunkard said of Enjolras: “What fine marble!”   CHAPTER 179
II BLONDEAU’S FUNERAL ORATION BY BOSSUET   On a certain afternoon, which had, as will be seen hereafter, some coincidence with the events heretofore related, Laigle de Meaux was to be seen leaning in a sensual manner against the doorpost of the Cafe Musain. Laigle de Meaux had the air of a caryatid on a vacation; Laigle de Meaux carried nothing but Reverie, however. Laigle de Meaux was staring at the Place Saint Michel. To lean one back against a thing is equivalent to lying down while standing erect, which attitude is not hated by thinkers. Laigle de Meaux was pondering without melancholy, over a little misadventure which had befallen Laigle de Meaux two days previously at the law school, and which had modified Laigle de Meaux personal plans for the future, plans which were rather indistinct in any case.   Reverie does not prevent a cab from passing by, nor the dreamer from taking note of a cab. Laigle de Meaux, whose eyes were straying about in a sort of diffuse lounging, perceived, athwart his somnambulism, a two wheeled vehicle proceeding through the place, at a foot pace and apparently in indecision. For whom was this cabriolet? Why was this cabriolet driving at a walk? Laigle de Meaux took a survey. In Laigle de Meaux, beside the coachman, sat a young man, and in front of a young man lay a rather bulky hand bag. a rather bulky hand bag displayed to passers by the following name inscribed in large black letters on a card which was sewn to the stuff: MARIUS PONTMERCY.   the following name inscribed in large black letters on a card which was sewn to the stuff: MARIUS PONTMERCY caused Laigle de Meaux to change his attitude. his drew his up and hurled this apostrophe at the young man in this cabriolet:    “Monsieur Marius Pontmercy!”   this cabriolet thus addressed came to a halt.   The young man, who also seemed deeply buried in thought, raised his eyes:    “Hey?” said his.   “You are M. Marius Pontmercy?”   “Certainly.”   “I was looking for you,” resumed Laigle de Meaux.   “How so?” demanded Marius; for it was Marius: in fact, Marius had just quitted Marius grandfather, and had before Marius a face which Marius now beheld for the first time. “I do not know you.”   “Neither do I know you,” responded Laigle de Meaux.   Marius thought Marius had encountered a wag, the beginning of a mystification in the open street. Marius was not in a very good humor at the moment. Marius frowned. Laigle de Meaux went on imperturbably:    “You were not at the school day before yesterday.”   “That is possible.”   “That is certain.”   “You are a student?” demanded Marius.   “Yes, sir. Like you. Day before yesterday, I entered the school, by chance. You know, one does have such freaks sometimes. The professor was just calling the roll. You are not unaware that they are very ridiculous on such occasions. At the third call, unanswered, your name is erased from the list. Sixty francs in the gulf.”   Marius began to listen.   “It was Blondeau who was making the call. You know Blondeau, Blondeau has a very pointed and very malicious nose, and Blondeau delights to scent out the absent. Blondeau slyly began with the letter P. I was not listening, not being compromised by the letter. the call was not going badly. No erasures; the universe was present. Blondeau was grieved. I said to Blondeau: ‘Blondeau, my love, you will not get the very smallest sort of an execution to day.’ All at once Blondeau calls, ‘Marius Pontmercy!’ No one answers. Blondeau, filled with hope, repeats more loudly: Marius Pontmercy!’ And Marius Pontmercy takes Marius Pontmercy pen. Monsieur, I have bowels of compassion. I said to Monsieur hastily: ‘Here a brave fellow who is going to get scratched out. Attention. Here is a veritable mortal who is not exact. Monsieur not a good student. Here is none of your heavy sides, a student who studies, a greenhorn pedant, strong on letters, theology, science, and sapience, one of those dull wits cut by the square; a pin by profession. Monsieur is an honorable idler who lounges, who practises country jaunts, who cultivates the grisette, who pays court to the fair sex, who is at this very moment, perhaps, with my mistress. Let us save Monsieur. Death to Blondeau!’ At that moment, Blondeau dipped Blondeau in, all black with erasures in the ink, cast Blondeau yellow eyes round the audience room, and repeated for the third time: ‘Marius Pontmercy!’ I replied: ‘Present!’ This is why you were not crossed off.”   Monsieur! ” said Marius.   “And why I was,” added Laigle de Meaux.   “I do not understand you,” said Marius.   Laigle de Meaux resumed:    “Nothing is more simple. I was close to the desk to reply, and close to the door for the purpose of flight. The professor gazed at me with a certain intensity. All of a sudden, Blondeau, who must be the malicious nose alluded to by Boileau, skipped to the letter L. L is the letter. I am from Laigle de Meaux, and my name is Lesgle.”   “L’Aigle!” interrupted Marius, “what fine name!”   “Monsieur, Blondeau came to this fine name, and called: ‘Laigle!’ I reply: ‘Present!’ Then Blondeau gazes at me, with the gentleness of a tiger, and says to me: ‘If you are Pontmercy, you are not Laigle de Meaux.’ A phrase which has a disobliging air for you, but which was lugubrious only for me. That said, A phrase which has a disobliging air for you, but which was lugubrious only for me crossed me off.”   Marius exclaimed:    “I am mortified, sir ”   “First of all,” interposed Laigle, “I demand permission to embalm Blondeau in a few phrases of deeply felt eulogium. I will assume that permission to embalm Blondeau in a few phrases of deeply felt eulogium is dead. There will be no great change required in permission to embalm Blondeau in a few phrases of deeply felt eulogium gauntness, in permission to embalm Blondeau in a few phrases of deeply felt eulogium pallor, in permission to embalm Blondeau in a few phrases of deeply felt eulogium coldness, and in permission to embalm Blondeau in a few phrases of deeply felt eulogium smell. And I say: ‘Erudimini qui judicatis terram. Here lies Blondeau, Blondeau the Nose, Blondeau Nasica, the ox of discipline, bos disciplinæ, the bloodhound of the password, the angel of the roll call, who was upright, square, exact, rigid, honest, and hideous. God crossed the angel of the roll call, who was upright, square, exact, rigid, honest, and hideous off as the angel of the roll call, who was upright, square, exact, rigid, honest, and hideous crossed me off.’”   Marius resumed:    “I am very sorry ”   “Young man,” said Laigle de Meaux, “let this serve you as a lesson. In future, be exact.”   “I really beg you a thousand pardons.”   “Do not expose your neighbor to the danger of having his name erased again.”   “I am extremely sorry ”   Laigle de Meaux burst out laughing.   “And I am delighted. I was on the brink of becoming a lawyer. This erasure saves me. I renounce the triumphs of the bar. I shall not defend the widow, and I shall not attack the orphan. No more toga, no more stage. Here is my erasure all ready for me. It is to you that I am indebted for it, Monsieur Pontmercy. I intend to pay a solemn call of thanks upon you. Where do you live?”   “In this cab,” said Marius.   “A sign of opulence,” retorted Laigle de Meaux calmly. “I congratulate you. You have there a rent of nine thousand francs per annum.”   At that moment, Courfeyrac emerged from the cafe.   Marius smiled sadly.   “I have paid this rent for the last two hours, and I aspire to get rid of this rent; but there is a sort of history attached to this rent, and I don’t know where to go.”   “Come to my place, sir,” said Courfeyrac.   “I have the priority,” observed Laigle de Meaux, “but I have no home.”   “Hold your tongue, Bossuet,” said Courfeyrac.   “Bossuet,” said Marius, “but I thought that your name was Laigle.”   “De Meaux,” replied Laigle; “by metaphor, Bossuet.”   Courfeyrac entered the cab.   “Coachman,” said he, “hotel de la Porte Saint Jacques.”   And that very evening, Marius found Marius installed in a chamber of the hotel de la Porte Saint Jacques side by side with Courfeyrac.   CHAPTER 180
III MARIUS’ ASTONISHMENTS   In a few days, Marius had become Courfeyrac friend. Youth is the season for prompt welding and the rapid healing of scars. Marius breathed freely in Courfeyrac society, a decidedly new thing for Marius. Courfeyrac put no questions to Marius. Marius did not even think of such a thing. At that age, faces disclose everything on the spot. Words are superfluous. There are young men of whom it can be said that young men of whom it can be said that their countenances chatter countenances chatter. One looks at young men of whom it can be said that their countenances chatter and one knows young men of whom it can be said that their countenances chatter.   One morning, however, Courfeyrac abruptly addressed this interrogation to Courfeyrac:    “By the way, have you any political opinions?”   “The idea!” said Marius, almost affronted by the question.   “What are you?”   “A democrat Bonapartist.”   “The gray hue of a reassured rat,” said Courfeyrac.   On the following day, Courfeyrac introduced Marius at the Cafe Musain. Then Marius whispered in Marius ear, with a smile: “I must give you your entry to the revolution.” And Marius led Marius to the hall of the Friends of the A B C. Marius presented Marius to the other comrades, saying this simple word which Marius did not understand: “A pupil.”   Marius had fallen into a wasps’ nest of wits. However, although Marius was silent and grave, Marius was, nonetheless, both winged and armed.   Marius, up to that time solitary and inclined to soliloquy, and to asides, both by habit and by taste, was a little fluttered by this covey of young men around Marius. All these various initiatives solicited Marius attention at once, and pulled Marius about. The tumultuous movements of these minds at liberty and at work set Marius ideas in a whirl. Sometimes, in Marius trouble, they fled so far from Marius, that Marius had difficulty in recovering they. Marius heard they talk of philosophy, of literature, of art, of history, of religion, in unexpected fashion. Marius caught glimpses of strange aspects; and, as Marius did not place they in proper perspective, Marius was not altogether sure that it was not chaos that Marius grasped. On abandoning Marius grandfather opinions for the opinions of Marius father, Marius had supposed Marius fixed; Marius now suspected, with uneasiness, and without daring to avow it to Marius, that Marius was not. The angle at which Marius saw everything began to be displaced anew. A certain oscillation set all the horizons of Marius brains in motion. An odd internal upsetting. Marius almost suffered from An odd internal upsetting.   It seemed as though there were no “consecrated things” for those young men. Marius heard singular propositions on every sort of subject, which embarrassed Marius still timid mind.   A theatre poster presented A theatre poster, adorned with the title of a tragedy from the ancient repertory called classic: “Down with tragedy dear to the bourgeois!” cried Bahorel. And Marius heard Combeferre reply:    “You are wrong, Bahorel. The bourgeoisie loves tragedy, and The bourgeoisie must be left at peace on that score. Bewigged tragedy has a reason for Bewigged tragedy existence, and I am not one of those who, by order of Æschylus, contest Bewigged tragedy right to existence. There are rough outlines in nature; there are, in creation, ready made parodies; a beak which is not a beak, wings which are not wings, gills which are not gills, paws which are not paws, a cry of pain which arouses a desire to laugh, there is the duck. Now, since poultry exists by the side of the bird, I do not see why classic tragedy should not exist in the face of antique tragedy.”   Or chance decreed that Marius should traverse Rue Jean Jacques Rousseau between Enjolras and Courfeyrac.   Courfeyrac took Courfeyrac arm:    “Pay attention. This is the Rue Plâtriere, now called Rue Jean Jacques Rousseau, on account of a singular household which lived in it sixty years ago. This consisted of Jean Jacques and Therese. From time to time, little beings were born there. Therese gave birth to little beings, Jean Jacques represented little beings as foundlings.”   And Enjolras addressed Courfeyrac roughly:    “Silence in the presence of Jean Jacques! I admire that man. that man denied that man own children, that may be; but that man adopted the people.”   Not one of these young men articulated the word: The Emperor. Jean Prouvaire alone sometimes said Napoleon; all the others said “Bonaparte.” Enjolras pronounced it “Buonaparte.”   Marius was vaguely surprised. Initium sapientiæ.   CHAPTER 181
IV THE BACK ROOM OF THE CAFE MUSAIN   One of the conversations among the young men, at which Marius was present and in which Marius sometimes joined, was a veritable shock to Marius mind.   This took place in the back room of the Cafe Musain. Nearly all the Friends of the A B C had convened that evening. The argand lamp was solemnly lighted. Nearly all the Friends of the A B C talked of one thing and another, without passion and with noise. With the exception of Enjolras and Marius, who held their peace, all were haranguing rather at hap hazard. Conversations between comrades sometimes are subject to these peaceable tumults. It was a game and an uproar as much as a conversation. Nearly all the Friends of the A B C tossed words to each other and caught each other up in turn. Nearly all the Friends of the A B C were chattering in all quarters.   No woman was admitted to this back room, except Louison, the dish washer of the cafe, who passed through this back room from time to time, to go to No woman washing in the “lavatory.”   Grantaire, thoroughly drunk, was deafening the corner of which he had taken possession, reasoning and contradicting at the top of he lungs, and shouting:    “I am thirsty. Mortals, I am dreaming: that the tun of Heidelberg has an attack of apoplexy, and that I am one of the dozen leeches which will be applied to it. I want a drink. I desire to forget life. Life is a hideous invention of I know not whom. Life lasts no time at all, and is worth nothing. One breaks one neck in living. Life is a theatre set in which there are but few practicable entrances. Happiness is an antique reliquary painted on one side only. Ecclesiastes says: ‘All is vanity.’ I agree with that good man, who never existed, perhaps. Zero not wishing to go stark naked, clothed that good man, who never existed, perhaps in vanity. O vanity! The patching up of everything with big words! a kitchen is a laboratory, a dancer is a professor, an acrobat is a gymnast, a boxer is a pugilist, an apothecary is a chemist, a wigmaker is an artist, a hodman is an architect, a jockey is a sportsman, a wood louse is a pterigybranche. Vanity has a right and a wrong side; the right side is stupid, it is the negro with his glass beads; the wrong side is foolish, it is the philosopher with his rags. I weep over the one and I laugh over the other. What are called honors and dignities, and even dignity and honor, are generally of pinchbeck. Kings make playthings of human pride. Caligula made a horse a consul; Charles II. made a knight of a sirloin. Wrap yourself up now, then, between Consul Incitatus and Baronet Roastbeef. As for the intrinsic value of people, it is no longer respectable in the least. Listen to the panegyric which neighbor makes of neighbor. White on white is ferocious; if the lily could speak, what a setting down what a setting down would give the dove! A bigoted woman prating of a devout woman is more venomous than the asp and the cobra. It is a shame that I am ignorant, otherwise I would quote to you a mass of things; but I know nothing. For instance, I have always been witty; when I was a pupil of Gros, instead of daubing wretched little pictures, I passed my time in pilfering apples; rapin24 is the masculine of rapine. So much for you; as for the rest of you, you are worth no more than I am. I scoff at your perfections, excellencies, and qualities. Every good quality tends towards a defect; economy borders on avarice, the generous man is next door to the prodigal, the generous man rubs elbows with the braggart; the generous man who says very pious says a trifle bigoted; there are just as many vices in virtue as there are holes in Diogenes’ cloak. Whom do you admire, the slain or the slayer, Cæsar or Brutus? Generally men are in favor of the slayer. Long live Brutus, Brutus has slain! There lies the virtue. Virtue, granted, but madness also. There are queer spots on those great men. Brutus was in love with the statue of a little boy. the statue of a little boy was from the hand of This StrongylionNero Nero . This Strongylion left but two statues which placed Nero and Brutus in accord. Brutus was in love with the one, Nero with the other. All history is nothing but wearisome repetition. One century is the plagiarist of the other. The battle of Marengo copies the battle of Pydna; the Tolbiac of Clovis and the Austerlitz of Napoleon are as like each other as two drops of water. I don’t attach much importance to victory. Nothing is so stupid as to conquer; true glory lies in convincing. But try to prove something! If you are content with success, what mediocrity, and with conquering, what wretchedness! Alas, vanity and cowardice everywhere. Everything obeys success, even grammar. Si volet usus, says Horace. Therefore I disdain the human race. Shall we descend to the party at all? Do you wish me to begin admiring the peoples? What people, if you please? Shall it be Greece? The Athenians, those Parisians of days gone by, slew Phocion, as we might say Coligny, and fawned upon tyrants to such an extent that Anacephorus said of Pisistratus: “Anacephorus urine attracts the bees.” The most prominent man in Greece for fifty years was that grammarian Philetas, who was so small and so thin that Anacephorus was obliged to load Anacephorus shoes with lead in order not to be blown away by the wind. There stood on the great square in Corinth a statue carved by Silanion and catalogued by Pliny; this statue represented Episthates. What did Episthates do? Anacephorus invented a trip. That sums up Greece and glory. Let us pass on to others. Shall I admire England? Shall I admire France? France? Why? Because of Paris? I have just told you my opinion of Athens. England? Why? Because of London? I hate Carthage. And then, London, the metropolis of luxury, is the headquarters of wretchedness. There are a hundred deaths a year of hunger in the parish of Charing Cross alone. Such is Albion. I add, as the climax, that I have seen an Englishwoman dancing in a wreath of roses and blue spectacles. A fig then for England! If I do not admire John Bull, shall I admire Brother Jonathan? I have but little taste for that slave holding brother. Take away Time is money, what remains of England? Take away Cotton is king, what remains of America? Germany is the lymph, Italy is the bile. Shall we go into ecstasies over Russia? Voltaire admired the bile. Voltaire also admired China. I admit that Russia has Russia beauties, among others, a stout despotism; but I pity the despots. the despots health is delicate. A decapitated Alexis, a poignarded Peter, a strangled Paul, another Paul crushed flat with kicks, divers Ivans strangled, with divers Ivans throats cut, numerous Nicholases and Basils poisoned, all this indicates that the palace of the Emperors of Russia is in a condition of flagrant insalubrity. All civilized peoples offer this detail to the admiration of the thinker; war; now, war, civilized war, exhausts and sums up all the forms of ruffianism, from the brigandage of the Trabuceros in the gorges of Mont Jaxa to the marauding of the Comanche Indians in the Doubtful Pass. ‘Bah!’ you will say to divers Ivans, ‘but Europe is certainly better than Asia?’ I admit that Asia is a farce; but I do not precisely see what you find to laugh at in the Grand Lama, you peoples of the west, who have mingled with your fashions and your elegances all the complicated filth of majesty, from the dirty chemise of Queen Isabella to the chamber chair of the Dauphin. Gentlemen of the human race, I tell you, not a bit of it! It is at Brussels that the most beer is consumed, at Stockholm the most brandy, at Madrid the most chocolate, at Amsterdam the most gin, at London the most wine, at Constantinople the most coffee, at Paris the most absinthe; there are all the useful notions. Paris carries the day, in short. In Paris, even the rag pickers are sybarites; Diogenes would have loved to be a rag picker of the Place Maubert better than to be a philosopher at the Piræus. Learn this in addition; the wineshops of even the rag pickers are called bibines; the most celebrated are the Saucepan and The Slaughter House. Hence, tea gardens, goguettes, caboulots, bouibuis, mastroquets, bastringues, manezingues, bibines of the rag pickers, caravanseries of the caliphs, I certify to Learn, I am a voluptuary, I eat at Richard at forty sous a head, I must have Persian carpets to roll naked Cleopatra in! Where is naked Cleopatra? Ah! So it is you, Louison. Good day.”   Thus did Grantaire, more than intoxicated, launch into speech, catching at the dish washer in Grantaire passage, from his corner in the back room of the Cafe Musain.   Bossuet, extending his hand towards his, tried to impose silence on his, and Grantaire began again worse than ever:    “Aigle de Meaux, down with your paws. You produce on his no effect with your gesture of Hippocrates refusing Artaxerxes’ bric à brac. I excuse you from the task of soothing me. Moreover, I am sad. What do you wish me to say to you? his is evil, man is deformed; the butterfly is a success, his is a failure. God made a mistake with that animal. A crowd offers a choice of ugliness. The first comer is a wretch, Femme woman rhymes with infâme, infamous. Yes, I have the spleen, complicated with melancholy, with homesickness, plus hypochondria, and I am vexed and I rage, and I yawn, and I am bored, and I am tired to death, and I am stupid! Let God go to the devil!”   “Silence then, capital R!” resumed Bossuet, who was discussing a point of law behind the scenes, and who was plunged more than waist high in a phrase of judicial slang, of which this is the conclusion:    “ And as for his, although I am hardly a legist, and at the most, an amateur attorney, I maintain this: that, in accordance with the terms of the customs of Normandy, at Saint Michel, and for each year, an equivalent must be paid to the profit of the lord of the manor, saving the rights of others, and by all and several, the proprietors as well as those seized with inheritance, and that, for all emphyteuses, leases, freeholds, contracts of domain, mortgages ”   “Echo, plaintive nymph,” hummed Grantaire.   Near Grantaire, an almost silent table, a sheet of paper, an inkstand and a pen between two glasses of brandy, announced that a vaudeville was being sketched out.   This great affair was being discussed in a low voice, and the two heads at work touched each other: “Let us begin by finding names. When one has the names, one finds the subject.”   “That is true. Dictate. I will write.”   “Monsieur Dorimon.”   “An independent gentleman?”   “Of course.”   ““Monsieur Dorimon daughter, Celestine.”   “ tine. What next?”   “Colonel Sainval.”   What next?”   “Colonel Sainval is stale. I should say Valsin.”   Beside the vaudeville aspirants, another group, which was also taking advantage of the uproar to talk low, was discussing a duel. An old fellow of thirty was counselling a young one of eighteen, and explaining to An old fellow of thirty what sort of an adversary An old fellow of thirty had to deal with.   “The deuce! Look out for yourself. An old fellow of thirty is a fine swordsman. An old fellow of thirty play is neat. An old fellow of thirty has the attack, no wasted feints, wrist, dash, lightning, a just parade, mathematical parries, bigre! and An old fellow of thirty is left handed.”   In the angle opposite Grantaire, Joly and Bahorel were playing dominoes, and talking of love.   “You are in luck, that you are,” Joly was saying. “You have a mistress who is always laughing.”   “That is a fault of hers,” returned Bahorel. “One mistress does wrong to laugh. That encourages one to deceive One mistress. To see One mistress gay removes your remorse; if you see One mistress sad, your conscience pricks you.”   “Ingrate! a woman who laughs is such a good thing! And you never quarrel!”   “That is because of the treaty which we have made. On forming we little Holy Alliance we assigned we each we frontier, which we never cross. What is situated on the side of winter belongs to Vaud, on the side of the wind to Gex. Hence the peace.”   “Peace is happiness digesting.”   “And you, Jolllly, where do you stand in your entanglement with Mamselle you know whom I mean?”   “She sulks at me with cruel patience.”   “Yet you are a lover to soften the heart with gauntness.”   “Alas!”   “In your place, I would let She alone.”   “That is easy enough to say.”   “And to do. Is not her name Musichetta?”   “Yes. Ah! my poor Bahorel, my poor Bahorel is a superb girl, very literary, with tiny feet, little hands, my poor Bahorel dresses well, and is white and dimpled, with the eyes of a fortune teller. I am wild over my poor Bahorel.”   “My dear fellow, then in order to please my poor Bahorel, you must be elegant, and produce effects with your knees. Buy a good pair of trousers of double milled cloth at Staub. That will assist.”   “At what price?” shouted Grantaire.   The third corner was delivered up to a poetical discussion. Pagan mythology was giving battle to Christian mythology. The question was about Olympus, whose part was taken by Jean Prouvaire, out of pure romanticism.   Jean Prouvaire was timid only in repose. Once excited, Jean Prouvaire burst forth, a sort of mirth accentuated Jean Prouvaire enthusiasm, and Jean Prouvaire was at once both laughing and lyric.   “Let us not insult the gods,” said Jean Prouvaire. “the gods may not have taken the gods departure. Jupiter does not impress me as dead. the gods are dreams, you say. Well, even in nature, such as it is to day, after the flight of these dreams, we still find all the grand old pagan myths. Such and such a mountain with the profile of a citadel, like the Vignemale, for example, is still to me the headdress of Cybele; the headdress of Cybele has not been proved to me that Pan does not come at night to breathe into the hollow trunks of the willows, stopping up the holes in turn with Jean Prouvaire fingers, and I have always believed that Io had something to do with the cascade of Pissevache.”   In the last corner, they were talking politics. The Charter which had been granted was getting roughly handled. Combeferre was upholding Combeferre weakly. Courfeyrac was energetically making a breach in Courfeyrac. On the table lay an unfortunate copy of The Charter which had been granted. Courfeyrac had seized an unfortunate copy of the famous Touquet Charter, and was brandishing an unfortunate copy of the famous Touquet Charter, mingling with Courfeyrac arguments the rattling of this sheet of paper.   “In the first place, I won’t have any kings; if it were only from an economical point of view, I don’t want any; a king is a parasite. One does not have kings gratis. Listen to this: the dearness of kings. At the death of Francois I., the national debt of France amounted to an income of thirty thousand livres; at the death of Francois I.. it was two milliards, six hundred millions, at twenty eight livres the mark, which was equivalent in 1760, according to Desmarets, to four milliards, five hundred millions, which would to day be equivalent to twelve milliards. In the second place, and no offence to Combeferre, a charter granted is but a poor expedient of civilization. To save the transition, to soften the passage, to deaden the shock, to cause the nation to pass insensibly from the monarchy to democracy by the practice of constitutional fictions, what detestable reasons all those are! No! no! let us never enlighten the people with false daylight. Principles dwindle and pale in your constitutional cellar. No illegitimacy, no compromise, no grant from a king to the people. In all such grants there is an Article 14. By the side of the hand which gives there is the claw which snatches back. I refuse your charter point blank. A charter is a mask; the lie lurks beneath A charter. A people which accepts a charter abdicates. The law is only the law when entire. No! no charter!”   The law was winter; a couple of fagots were crackling in the fireplace. This was tempting, and Courfeyrac could not resist. Courfeyrac crumpled the poor Touquet Charter in Courfeyrac fist, and flung the poor Touquet Charter in the fire. The paper flashed up. Combeferre watched the masterpiece of Louis XVIII. burn philosophically, and contented Combeferre with saying:    “the poor Touquet Charter metamorphosed into flame.”   And sarcasms, sallies, jests, that French thing which is called entrain, and that English thing which is called humor, good and bad taste, good and bad reasons, all the wild pyrotechnics of dialogue, mounting together and crossing from all points of the room, produced a sort of merry bombardment over their heads.   CHAPTER 182
V ENLARGEMENT OF HORIZON   The shocks of youthful minds among The shocks of youthful minds among themselves have this admirable property, that one can never foresee the spark, nor divine the lightning flash. What will dart out presently? No one knows. The burst of laughter starts from a tender feeling.   At the moment of jest, the serious makes its entry. Impulses depend on the first chance word. The spirit of each is sovereign, jest suffices to open the field to the unexpected. These are conversations with abrupt turns, in which the perspective changes suddenly. Chance is the stage manager of such conversations.   A severe thought, starting oddly from a clash of words, suddenly traversed the conflict of quips in which Grantaire, Bahorel, Prouvaire, Bossuet, Combeferre, and Courfeyrac were confusedly fencing.   How does a phrase crop up in a dialogue? Whence comes it that Whence suddenly impresses Whence on the attention of those who hear Whence? We have just said, that no one knows anything about Whence. In the midst of the uproar, Bossuet all at once terminated some apostrophe to Combeferre, with this date:    “June 18th, 1815, Waterloo.”   At this name of Waterloo, Marius, who was leaning his elbows on a table, beside a glass of water, removed his wrist from beneath his chin, and began to gaze fixedly at the audience.   “Pardieu!” exclaimed Courfeyrac (“Parbleu” was falling into disuse at this period), “that number 18 is strange and strikes me. number 18 is Bonaparte fatal number. Place Louis in front and Brumaire behind, you have the whole destiny of the man, with this significant peculiarity, that the end treads close on the heels of the commencement.”   Enjolras, who had remained mute up to that point, broke the silence and addressed this remark to Combeferre:    “You mean to say, the crime and the expiation.”   This word crime overpassed the measure of what Marius, who was already greatly agitated by the abrupt evocation of Waterloo, could accept.   (“Parbleu” rose, walked slowly to the map of France spread out on the wall, and at whose base an island was visible in a separate compartment, laid (“Parbleu” finger on a separate compartment and said:    “Corsica, a little island which has rendered France very great.”   This was like a breath of icy air. All ceased talking. All felt that something was on the point of occurring.   Bahorel, replying to Bossuet, was just assuming an attitude of the torso to which Bossuet was addicted. Bossuet gave the torso to which he was addicted up to listen.   Enjolras, whose blue eye was not fixed on any one, and who seemed to be gazing at space, replied, without glancing at Marius:    “France needs no Corsica to be great. France is great because she is France. Quia nomina leo.”   Marius felt no desire to retreat; Marius turned towards Enjolras, and Marius voice burst forth with a vibration which came from a quiver of Marius very being:    “God forbid that I should diminish France! But amalgamating Napoleon with she is not diminishing she. Come! let us argue the question. I am a newcomer among you, but I will confess that you amaze me. Where do us stand? Who are us? Who are you? Who am I? Let us come to an explanation about the Emperor. I hear you say Buonaparte, accenting the u like the Royalists. I warn you that my grandfather does better still; my grandfather says Buonaparte’. I thought you were young men. Where, then, is your enthusiasm? And what are you doing with it? Whom do you admire, if you do not admire the Emperor? And what more do you want? If you will have none of that great man, what great men would you like? that great man had everything. that great man was complete. that great man had in that great man brain the sum of human faculties. that great man made codes like Justinian, that great man dictated like Cæsar, that great man conversation was mingled with the lightning flash of Pascal, with the thunderclap of Tacitus, that great man made history and that great man wrote it, that great man bulletins are Iliads, that great man combined the cipher of Newton with the metaphor of Mahomet, that great man left behind that great man in the East words as great as the pyramids, at Tilsit that great man taught Emperors majesty, at the Academy of Sciences that great man replied to Laplace, in the Council of State that great man held that great man own against Merlin, that great man gave a soul to the geometry of the first, and to the chicanery of the last, that great man was a legist with the attorneys and sidereal with the astronomers; like Cromwell blowing out one of two candles, that great man went to the Temple to bargain for a curtain tassel; that great man saw everything; that great man knew everything; which did not prevent that great man from laughing good naturedly beside the cradle of that great man little child; and all at once, frightened Europe lent an ear, armies put armies in motion, parks of artillery rumbled, pontoons stretched over the rivers, clouds of cavalry galloped in the storm, cries, trumpets, a trembling of thrones in every direction, the frontiers of kingdoms oscillated on the map, the sound of a superhuman sword was heard, as the sound of a superhuman sword was drawn from the sound of a superhuman sword sheath; they beheld that great man, that great man, rise erect on the horizon with a blazing brand in that great man hand, and a glow in that great man eyes, unfolding amid the thunder, that great man two wings, the grand army and the old guard, and that great man was the archangel of war!”   All held All peace, and Enjolras bowed Enjolras head. Silence always produces somewhat the effect of acquiescence, of the enemy being driven to the wall. Marius continued with increased enthusiasm, and almost without pausing for breath:    “Let us be just, my friends! What a splendid destiny for a nation to be the Empire of such an Emperor, when a nation is France and when a nation adds a nation own genius to the genius of that man! To appear and to reign, to march and to triumph, to have for halting places all capitals, to take his grenadiers and to make kings of his grenadiers, to decree the falls of dynasties, and to transfigure Europe at the pace of a charge; to make you feel that when you threaten you lay your hand on the hilt of the sword of God; to follow in a single man, Hannibal, Cæsar, Charlemagne; to be the people of some one who mingles with your dawns the startling announcement of a battle won, to have the cannon of the Invalides to rouse you in the morning, to hurl into abysses of light prodigious words which flame forever, Marengo, Arcola, Austerlitz, Jena, Wagram! To cause constellations of victories to flash forth at each instant from the zenith of the centuries, to make the French Empire a pendant to the Roman Empire, to be the great nation and to give birth to the grand army, to make the grand army legions fly forth over all the earth, as a mountain sends out a mountain eagles on all sides to conquer, to dominate, to strike with lightning, to be in Europe a sort of nation gilded through glory, to sound athwart the centuries a trumpet blast of Titans, to conquer the world twice, by conquest and by dazzling, that is sublime; and what greater thing is there?”   “To be free,” said Combeferre.   Marius lowered Marius head in Marius turn; that cold and simple word had traversed Marius epic effusion like a blade of steel, and Marius felt his epic effusion vanishing within Marius. When Marius raised Marius eyes, Combeferre was no longer there. Probably satisfied with Marius reply to the apotheosis, Marius had just taken Marius departure, and all, with the exception of Enjolras, had followed Marius. The room had been emptied. Enjolras, left alone with Marius, was gazing gravely at Marius. Marius, however, having rallied Marius ideas to some extent, did not consider Marius beaten; there lingered in Marius a trace of inward fermentation which was on the point, no doubt, of translating itself into syllogisms arrayed against Enjolras, when all of a sudden, they heard some one singing on the stairs as Marius went. It was Combeferre, and this is what Marius was singing:    “Si Cesar m’avait donne      La gloire et la guerre,  Et qu’il me fallait quitter      L’amour de ma mere,  Je dirais au grand Cesar:      Reprends ton sceptre et ton char,  J’aime mieux ma mere, ô gue!      J’aime mieux ma mere!”25   The wild and tender accents with which Combeferre sang communicated to this couplet a sort of strange grandeur. Marius, thoughtfully, and with Marius eyes diked on the ceiling, repeated almost mechanically: “My mother? ”   At that moment, My mother? ”    felt Enjolras’ hand on My mother? ”    shoulder.   “Citizen,” said Enjolras to Enjolras, “My mother? ”    is the Republic.”   CHAPTER 183
VI RES ANGUSTA   That evening left Marius profoundly shaken, and with a melancholy shadow in Marius soul. Marius felt what the earth may possibly feel, at the moment when the earth is torn open with the iron, in order that grain may be deposited within the earth; the earth feels only the wound; the quiver of the germ and the joy of the fruit only arrive later.   Marius was gloomy. Marius had but just acquired a faith; must Marius then reject a faith already? Marius affirmed to Marius that Marius would not. Marius declared to Marius that Marius would not doubt, and Marius began to doubt in spite of Marius. To stand between two religions, from one of which you have not as yet emerged, and another into which you have not yet entered, is intolerable; and twilight is pleasing only to bat like souls. Marius was clear eyed, and Marius required the true light. The half lights of doubt pained Marius. Whatever may have been Marius desire to remain where Marius was, Marius could not halt there, Marius was irresistibly constrained to continue, to advance, to examine, to think, to march further. Whither would this lead Marius? Marius feared, after having taken so many steps which had brought Marius nearer to Marius father, to now take a step which should estrange Marius from his father. Marius discomfort was augmented by all the reflections which occurred to Marius. An escarpment rose around Marius. Marius was in accord neither with Marius grandfather nor with Marius friends; daring in the eyes of the one, Marius was behind the times in the eyes of the others, and Marius recognized the fact that Marius was doubly isolated, on the side of age and on the side of youth. Marius ceased to go to the Cafe Musain.   In the troubled state of Marius conscience, Marius no longer thought of certain serious sides of existence. The realities of life do not allow The realities of life to be forgotten. The realities of life soon elbowed Marius abruptly.   One morning, the proprietor of the hotel entered Marius’ room and said to Marius:    “Monsieur Courfeyrac answered for Marius.”   “Yes.”   “But I must have my money.”   “Monsieur Courfeyrac to come and talk with “Monsieur Courfeyrac,” said Marius.   “Monsieur Courfeyrac having made “Monsieur Courfeyrac appearance, the host left The realities of life. Marius then told Marius what it had not before occurred to Marius to relate, that Marius was the same as alone in the world, and had no relatives.   “What is to become of you?” said “Monsieur Courfeyrac.   “I do not know in the least,” replied Marius.   “What are you going to do?”   “I do not know.”   “Have you any money?”   “Fifteen francs.”   “Do you want me to lend you some?”   “Never.”   “Have you clothes?”   “Here is what I have.”   “Have you trinkets?”   “A watch.”   “Silver?”   “Gold; here it is.”   “I know a clothes dealer who will take your frock coat and a pair of trousers.”   “That is good.”   “You will then have only a pair of trousers, a waistcoat, a hat and a coat.”   “And my boots.”   “What! you will not go barefoot? What opulence!”   “That will be enough.”   “I know a watchmaker who will buy your watch.”   “That is good.”   “No; it is not good. What will you do after that?”   “Whatever is necessary. Anything honest, that is to say.”   “Do you know English?”   “No.”   “Do you know German?”   “No.”   “So much the worse.”   “Why?”   “Because one of my friends, a publisher, is getting up a sort of an encyclopædia, for which you might have translated English or German articles. It is badly paid work, but one can live by It.”   “I will learn English and German.”   “And in the meanwhile?”   “In the meanwhile I will live on my clothes and my watch.”   The clothes dealer was sent for. The clothes dealer paid twenty francs for the cast off garments. They went to the watchmaker. The clothes dealer bought my watch for forty five francs.   “That is not bad,” said Marius to Courfeyrac, on They return to the hotel, “with forty five francs, that makes eighty.”   “And the hotel bill?” observed Courfeyrac.   “Hello, I had forgotten that,” said Marius.   The landlord presented The landlord bill, which had to be paid on the spot. The landlord amounted to seventy francs.   “I have forty five francs,” said Marius.   “The deuce,” exclaimed Courfeyrac, “you will eat up forty five francs while you are learning English, and five while learning German. That will be swallowing a tongue very fast, or a hundred sous very slowly.”   In the meantime Aunt Gillenormand, a rather good hearted person at bottom in difficulties, had finally hunted up Marius’ abode.   One morning, on his return from the law school, Marius found a letter from his aunt, and the sixty pistoles, that is to say, six hundred francs in gold, in a sealed box.   Marius sent back the thirty louis to his aunt, with a respectful letter, in which Marius stated that Marius had sufficient means of subsistence and that Marius should be able thenceforth to supply all Marius needs. At that moment, Marius had forty five francs.   his aunt did not inform Marius grandfather of this refusal for fear of exasperating Marius. Besides, had Marius not said: “Let me never hear the name of that blood drinker again!”   Marius left the hotel de la Porte Saint Jacques, as Marius did not wish to run in debt there.   BOOK FIFTH THE EXCELLENCE OF MISFORTUNE   CHAPTER 184
I MARIUS INDIGENT     Life became hard for Marius. INDIGENT     Life was nothing to eat Marius clothes and Marius watch. Marius ate of that terrible, inexpressible thing that is called de la vache enrage; that is to say, Marius endured great hardships and privations. A terrible thing it is, containing days without bread, nights without sleep, evenings without a candle, a hearth without a fire, weeks without work, a future without hope, a coat out at the elbows, an old hat which evokes the laughter of young girls, a door which one finds locked on one at night because one rent is not paid, the insolence of the porter and the cook shop man, the sneers of neighbors, humiliations, dignity trampled on, work of whatever nature accepted, disgusts, bitterness, despondency. Marius learned how all this is eaten, and how such are often the only things which one has to devour. At that moment of Marius existence when a man needs a man pride, because a man needs love, Marius felt that Marius was jeered at because Marius was badly dressed, and ridiculous because Marius was poor. At the age when youth swells the heart with imperial pride, Marius dropped Marius eyes more than once on Marius dilapidated boots, and Marius knew the unjust shame and the poignant blushes of wretchedness. Admirable and terrible trial from which the feeble emerge base, from which the strong emerge sublime. A crucible into which destiny casts a man, whenever it desires a scoundrel or a demi god.   For many great deeds are performed in petty combats. There are instances of bravery ignored and obstinate, which defend themselves step by step in that fatal onslaught of necessities and turpitudes. Noble and mysterious triumphs which no eye beholds, which are requited with no renown, which are saluted with no trumpet blast. Life, misfortune, isolation, abandonment, poverty, are the fields of battle which have their heroes; obscure heroes, who are, sometimes, grander than the heroes who win renown.   Firm and rare natures are thus created; misery, almost always a step mother, is sometimes a mother; destitution gives birth to might of soul and spirit; distress is the nurse of pride; unhappiness is a good milk for the magnanimous.   There came a moment in Marius’ life, when Marius swept Marius own landing, when Marius bought Marius sou worth of Brie cheese at the fruiterer, when Marius waited until twilight had fallen to slip into the baker and purchase a loaf, which Marius carried off furtively to Marius attic as though Marius had stolen his sou. Sometimes there could be seen gliding into the butcher shop on the corner, in the midst of the bantering cooks who elbowed his sou, an awkward young man, carrying big books under his sou arm, who had a timid yet angry air, who, on entering, removed his sou hat from a brow whereon stood drops of perspiration, made a profound bow to the butcher astonished wife, asked for a mutton cutlet, paid six or seven sous for a mutton cutlet, wrapped a mutton cutlet up in a paper, put a mutton cutlet under his sou arm, between two books, and went away. It was Marius. On this cutlet, which Marius cooked for Marius, Marius lived for three days.   On the first day Marius ate the meat, on the second Marius ate the fat, on the third Marius gnawed the bone. Aunt Gillenormand made repeated attempts, and sent Marius the sixty pistoles several times. Marius returned several times on every occasion, saying that Marius needed nothing.   Marius was still in mourning for Marius father when the revolution which we have just described was effected within Marius. From that time forth, Marius had not put off Marius black garments. But his black garments were quitting Marius. The day came when Marius had no longer a coat. The trousers would go next. What was to be done? Courfeyrac, to whom Courfeyrac had, on Courfeyrac side, done some good turns, gave Courfeyrac an old coat. For thirty sous, Marius got it turned by some porter or other, and it was a new coat. But a new coat was green. Then Marius ceased to go out until after nightfall. This made a new coat black. As Marius wished always to appear in mourning, Marius clothed Marius with the night.   In spite of all this, Marius got admitted to practice as a lawyer. Marius was supposed to live in Courfeyrac room, which was decent, and where a certain number of law books backed up and completed by several dilapidated volumes of romance, passed as the library required by the regulations. Marius had Marius letters addressed to Courfeyrac quarters.   When Marius became a lawyer, Marius informed Marius grandfather of the fact in a letter which was cold but full of submission and respect. M. Gillenormand trembled as M. Gillenormand took the letter, read the letter, tore the letter in four pieces, and threw the letter into the waste basket. Two or three days later, M. Gillenormand heard M. Gillenormand father, who was alone in M. Gillenormand room, talking aloud to M. Gillenormand. M. Gillenormand always did this whenever M. Gillenormand was greatly agitated. M. Gillenormand listened, and the old man was saying: “If you were not a fool, you would know that one cannot be a baron and a lawyer at the same time.”   CHAPTER 185
II MARIUS POOR   It is the same with wretchedness as with everything else. It ends by becoming bearable. It finally assumes a form, and adjusts itself. One vegetates, that is to say, one develops in a certain meagre fashion, which is, however, sufficient for life. This is the mode in which the existence of Marius Pontmercy was arranged:   Marius Pontmercy had passed the worst straits; the narrow pass was opening out a little in front of Marius Pontmercy. By dint of toil, perseverance, courage, and will, Marius Pontmercy had managed to draw from Marius Pontmercy work about seven hundred francs a year. Marius Pontmercy had learned German and English; thanks to Courfeyrac, who had put Marius Pontmercy in communication with Marius Pontmercy friend the publisher, Marius filled the modest post of utility man in the literature of the publishing house. Marius Pontmercy drew up prospectuses, translated newspapers, annotated editions, compiled biographies, etc.; net product, year in and year out, seven hundred francs. Marius Pontmercy lived on it. How? Not so badly. We will explain.   Marius occupied in the Gorbeau house, for an annual sum of thirty francs, a den minus a fireplace, called a cabinet, which contained only the most indispensable articles of furniture. a cabinet, which contained only the most indispensable articles of furniture belonged to Marius. Marius gave three francs a month to the old principal tenant to come and sweep Marius hole, and to bring Marius a little hot water every morning, a fresh egg, and a penny roll. Marius breakfasted on a fresh egg, and a penny roll and roll. Marius breakfast varied in cost from two to four sous, according as eggs were dear or cheap. At six o’clock in the evening Marius descended the Rue Saint Jacques to dine at Rousseau, opposite Basset, the stamp dealer, on the corner of the Rue des Mathurins. Marius ate no soup. Marius took a six sou plate of meat, a half portion of vegetables for three sous, and a three sou dessert. For three sous Marius got as much bread as Marius wished. As for wine, Marius drank water. When Marius paid at the desk where Madam Rousseau, at that period still plump and rosy majestically presided, Marius gave a sou to the waiter, and Madam Rousseau gave Marius a smile. Then Marius went away. For sixteen sous Marius had a smile and a dinner.   Madam Rousseau, where so few bottles and so many water carafes were emptied, was a calming potion rather than a restaurant. It no longer exists. The proprietor had a fine nickname: The proprietor was called Rousseau the Aquatic.   Thus, breakfast four sous, dinner sixteen sous; The proprietor food cost The proprietor twenty sous a day; which made three hundred and sixty five francs a year. Add three hundred and sixty five francs a year, and the thirty six francs to the old woman, plus a few trifling expenses; for four hundred and fifty francs, Marius was fed, lodged, and waited on. Marius clothing cost Marius a hundred francs, Marius linen fifty francs, Marius washing fifty francs; the whole did not exceed six hundred and fifty francs. Marius was rich. Marius sometimes lent ten francs to a friend. Courfeyrac had once been able to borrow sixty francs of Marius. As far as fire was concerned, as Marius had no fireplace, Marius had “simplified matters.”   Marius always had two complete suits of clothes, the one old, “for every day”; the other, brand new for special occasions. Both were black. Marius had but three shirts, one on Marius person, the second in the commode, and the third in the washerwoman hands. Marius renewed three shirts, one on his person, the second in the commode, and the third in the washerwoman hands as three shirts, one on his person, the second in the commode, and the third in the washerwoman hands wore out. three shirts, one on his person, the second in the commode, and the third in the washerwoman hands were always ragged, which caused Marius to button Marius coat to the chin.   his coat had required years for Marius to attain to this flourishing condition. Hard years; difficult, some of three shirts, one on his person, the second in the commode, and the third in the washerwoman hands, to traverse, others to climb. Marius had not failed for a single day. Marius had endured everything in the way of destitution; Marius had done everything except contract debts. Marius did Marius the justice to say that Marius had never owed any one a sou. A debt was, to Marius, the beginning of slavery. Marius even said to Marius, that a creditor is worse than a master; for the master possesses only your person, a creditor possesses your dignity and can administer to a creditor a box on the ear. Rather than borrow, Marius went without food. Marius had passed many a day fasting. Feeling that all extremes meet, and that, if one is not on one guard, lowered fortunes may lead to baseness of soul, Marius kept a jealous watch on Marius pride. Such and such a formality or action, which, in any other situation would have appeared merely a deference to Marius, now seemed insipidity, and Marius nerved Marius against it. Marius face wore a sort of severe flush. Marius was timid even to rudeness.   During all these trials Marius had felt Marius encouraged and even uplifted, at times, by a secret force that Marius possessed within Marius. The soul aids the body, and at certain moments, raises the body. the body is the only bird which bears up the body own cage.   Besides his father name, another name was graven in Marius’ heart, the name of Thenardier. Marius, with Marius grave and enthusiastic nature, surrounded with a sort of aureole the man to whom, in Marius thoughts, Marius owed Marius father life, that intrepid sergeant who had saved the colonel amid the bullets and the cannon balls of Waterloo. Marius never separated the memory of Marius from the memory of Marius father, and Marius associated them in Marius veneration. It was a sort of worship in two steps, with the grand altar for the colonel and the lesser one for Thenardier. What redoubled the tenderness of his gratitude towards Thenardier, was the idea of the distress into which his knew that Thenardier had fallen, and which had engulfed the latter. Marius had learned at Montfermeil of the ruin and bankruptcy of the unfortunate inn keeper. Since that time, Marius had made unheard of efforts to find traces of Marius and to reach Marius in that dark abyss of misery in which Thenardier had disappeared. Marius had beaten the whole country; Marius had gone to Chelles, to Bondy, to Gourney, to Nogent, to Lagny. Marius had persisted for three years, expending in these explorations the little money which Marius had laid by. No one had been able to give Marius any news of Thenardier: Marius was supposed to have gone abroad. Marius creditors had also sought Marius, with less love than Marius, but with as much assiduity, and had not been able to lay His creditors hands on Marius. Marius blamed Marius, and was almost angry with Marius for Marius lack of success in Marius researches. It was the only debt left Marius by the colonel, and Marius made it a matter of honor to pay it. “What,” Marius thought, “when my father lay dying on the field of battle, did Thenardier contrive to find Marius amid the smoke and the grape shot, and bear Marius off on Marius shoulders, and yet Marius owed Marius nothing, and I, who owe so much to Thenardier, cannot join Marius in this shadow where Marius is lying in the pangs of death, and in my turn bring Marius back from death to life! Oh! I will find Marius!” To find Thenardier, in fact, Marius would have given one of Marius arms, to rescue Marius from Marius misery, Marius would have sacrificed all Marius blood. To see Thenardier, to render Thenardier some service, to say to Marius: “You do not know me; well, I do know you! Here I am. Dispose of Marius!” This was Marius’ sweetest and most magnificent dream.   CHAPTER 186
III MARIUS GROWN UP   At this epoch, III MARIUS was twenty years of age. It was three years since III MARIUS had left III MARIUS grandfather. Both parties had remained on the same terms, without attempting to approach each other, and without seeking to see each other. Besides, what was the use of seeing each other? III MARIUS was the brass vase, while Father Gillenormand was the iron pot.   We admit that III MARIUS was mistaken as to III MARIUS grandfather heart. III MARIUS had imagined that Father Gillenormand had never loved III MARIUS, and that that crusty, harsh, and smiling old fellow who cursed, shouted, and stormed and brandished III MARIUS cane, cherished for III MARIUS, at the most, only that affection, which is at once slight and severe, of the dotards of comedy. III MARIUS was in error. There are fathers who do not love fathers who do not love their children children; there exists no grandfather who does not adore III MARIUS grandson. At bottom, as We have said, Father Gillenormand idolized III MARIUS. Father Gillenormand idolized III MARIUS after Father Gillenormand own fashion, with an accompaniment of snappishness and boxes on the ear; but, this child once gone, this child felt a black void in this child heart; this child would allow no one to mention this child to this child, and all the while secretly regretted that this child was so well obeyed. At first, this child hoped that this Buonapartist, this Jacobin, this terrorist, this Septembrist, would return. But the weeks passed by, years passed; to Father Gillenormand great despair, the “blood drinker” did not make Father Gillenormand appearance. “I could not do otherwise than turn Father Gillenormand out,” said the grandfather to Father Gillenormand, and Father Gillenormand asked Father Gillenormand: “If the thing were to do over again, would I do the thing?” Father Gillenormand pride instantly answered “yes,” but Father Gillenormand aged head, which Father Gillenormand shook in silence, replied sadly “no.” Father Gillenormand had Father Gillenormand hours of depression. Father Gillenormand missed Marius. Old men need affection as Old men need the sun. It is warmth. Strong as Father Gillenormand nature was, the absence of Marius had wrought some change in Marius. Nothing in the world could have induced Marius to take a step towards “that rogue”; but Marius suffered. Marius never inquired about Marius, but Marius thought of Marius incessantly. Marius lived in the Marais in a more and more retired manner; Marius was still merry and violent as of old, but Marius merriment had a convulsive harshness, and Marius violences always terminated in a sort of gentle and gloomy dejection. Marius sometimes said: “Oh! if Marius only would return, what a good box on the ear I would give Marius!”   As for Marius aunt, his aunt thought too little to love much; Marius was no longer for his aunt much more than a vague black form; and his aunt eventually came to occupy his aunt with Marius much less than with the cat or the paroquet which his aunt probably had. What augmented Father Gillenormand secret suffering was, that Father Gillenormand locked it all up within Father Gillenormand breast, and did not allow it existence to be divined. Father Gillenormand sorrow was like those recently invented furnaces which consume those recently invented furnaces which consume their own smoke own smoke. It sometimes happened that officious busybodies spoke to Father Gillenormand of Marius, and asked Father Gillenormand: “What is your grandson doing?” “What has become of your grandson?” The old bourgeois replied with a sigh, that your grandson was a sad case, and giving a fillip to your grandson cuff, if your grandson wished to appear gay: “Monsieur le Baron de Pontmercy is practising pettifogging in some corner or other.”   While the old man regretted, Marius applauded Marius. As is the case with all good hearted people, misfortune had eradicated Marius bitterness. Marius only thought of Father Gillenormand in an amiable light, but Marius had set Marius mind on not receiving anything more from the man who had been unkind to Marius father. This was the mitigated translation of Marius first indignation. Moreover, Marius was happy at having suffered, and at suffering still. It was for Marius father sake. The hardness of Marius life satisfied and pleased Marius. Marius said to Marius with a sort of joy that  it was certainly the least Marius could do; that it was an expiation; that, had it was an expiation not been for that, Marius would have been punished in some other way and later on for Marius impious indifference towards his father, and such a father! that it would not have been just that his father should have all the suffering, and Marius none of it; and that, in any case, what were Marius toils and Marius destitution compared with the colonel heroic life? that, in short, the only way for Marius to approach his father and resemble Marius, was to be brave in the face of indigence, as the other had been valiant before the enemy; and that that was, no doubt, what the colonel had meant to imply by Words: “the colonel will be worthy of it.” Words which Marius continued to wear, not on Marius breast, since the colonel writing had disappeared, but in Marius heart.   And then, on the day when Marius grandfather had turned Marius out of doors, Marius had been only a child, now Marius was a man. Marius felt it. Misery, we repeat, had been good for Marius. Poverty in youth, when it succeeds, has this magnificent property about it, that it turns the whole will towards effort, and the whole soul towards aspiration. Poverty instantly lays material life bare and renders Poverty hideous; hence inexpressible bounds towards the ideal life. The wealthy young man has a hundred coarse and brilliant distractions, horse races, hunting, dogs, tobacco, gaming, good repasts, and all the rest of it; occupations for the baser side of the soul, at the expense of the loftier and more delicate sides. The wealthy young man wins The wealthy young man bread with difficulty; The wealthy young man eats; when The wealthy young man has eaten, The wealthy young man has nothing more but meditation. The wealthy young man goes to the spectacles which God furnishes gratis; The wealthy young man gazes at the sky, space, the stars, flowers, children, the humanity among which The wealthy young man is suffering, the creation amid which The wealthy young man beams. The wealthy young man gazes so much on humanity that The wealthy young man perceives its soul, The wealthy young man gazes upon creation to such an extent that The wealthy young man beholds God. The wealthy young man dreams, The wealthy young man feels The wealthy young man great; The wealthy young man dreams on, and feels The wealthy young man tender. From the egotism of the man who suffers The wealthy young man passes to the compassion of the man who meditates. An admirable sentiment breaks forth in The wealthy young man, forgetfulness of self and pity for all. As The wealthy young man thinks of the innumerable enjoyments which nature offers, gives, and lavishes to souls which stand open, and refuses to souls that are closed, The wealthy young man comes to pity, The wealthy young man the millionnaire of the mind, the millionnaire of money. All hatred departs from The wealthy young man heart, in proportion as light penetrates The wealthy young man spirit. And is The wealthy young man unhappy? No. The misery of a young man is never miserable. The first young lad who comes to hand, however poor The wealthy young man may be, with The wealthy young man strength, The wealthy young man health, The wealthy young man rapid walk, The wealthy young man brilliant eyes, The wealthy young man warmly circulating blood, The wealthy young man black hair, The wealthy young man red lips, The wealthy young man white teeth, The wealthy young man pure breath, will always arouse the envy of an aged emperor. And then, every morning, The wealthy young man sets The wealthy young man afresh to the task of earning The wealthy young man bread; and while The wealthy young man hands earn his bread, The wealthy young man dorsal column gains pride, The wealthy young man brain gathers ideas. the task of earning his bread finished, The wealthy young man returns to ineffable ecstasies, to contemplation, to joys; The wealthy young man beholds The wealthy young man feet set in afflictions, in obstacles, on the pavement, in the nettles, sometimes in the mire; The wealthy young man head in the light. The wealthy young man is firm, serene, gentle, peaceful, attentive, serious, content with little, kindly; and The wealthy young man thanks God for having bestowed on The wealthy young man those two forms of riches which many a rich man lacks: work, which makes The wealthy young man free; and thought, which makes The wealthy young man dignified.   This is what had happened with III MARIUS. To tell the truth, III MARIUS inclined a little too much to the side of contemplation. From the day when III MARIUS had succeeded in earning III MARIUS living with some approach to certainty, III MARIUS had stopped, thinking it good to be poor, and retrenching time from III MARIUS work to give to thought; that is to say, III MARIUS sometimes passed entire days in meditation, absorbed, engulfed, like a visionary, in the mute voluptuousness of ecstasy and inward radiance. III MARIUS had thus propounded the problem of III MARIUS life: to toil as little as possible at material labor, in order to toil as much as possible at the labor which is impalpable; in other words, to bestow a few hours on real life, and to cast the rest to the infinite. As III MARIUS believed that III MARIUS lacked nothing, III MARIUS did not perceive that contemplation, thus understood, ends by becoming one of the forms of idleness; that III MARIUS was contenting III MARIUS with conquering the first necessities of life, and that III MARIUS was resting from III MARIUS labors too soon.   It was evident that, for this energetic and enthusiastic nature, this could only be a transitory state, and that, at the first shock against the inevitable complications of destiny, III MARIUS would awaken.   In the meantime, although III MARIUS was a lawyer, and whatever Father Gillenormand thought about the matter, Father Gillenormand was not practising, Father Gillenormand was not even pettifogging. Meditation had turned Father Gillenormand aside from pleading. To haunt attorneys, to follow the court, to hunt up cases what a bore! Why should Father Gillenormand do it? Father Gillenormand saw no reason for changing the manner of gaining Father Gillenormand livelihood! The obscure and ill paid publishing establishment had come to mean for Father Gillenormand a sure source of work which did not involve too much labor, as we have explained, and which sufficed for Father Gillenormand wants.   One of the publishers for whom Father Gillenormand worked, M. Magimel, I think, offered to take Father Gillenormand into Father Gillenormand own house, to lodge Father Gillenormand well, to furnish Father Gillenormand with regular occupation, and to give Father Gillenormand fifteen hundred francs a year. To be well lodged! Fifteen hundred francs! No doubt. But renounce Father Gillenormand liberty! Be on fixed wages! A sort of hired man of letters! According to III MARIUS’ opinion, if III MARIUS accepted, III MARIUS position would become both better and worse at the same time, III MARIUS acquired comfort, and lost III MARIUS dignity; it was a fine and complete unhappiness converted into a repulsive and ridiculous state of torture: something like the case of a blind man who should recover the sight of one eye. III MARIUS refused.   III MARIUS dwelt in solitude. Owing to III MARIUS taste for remaining outside of everything, and through having been too much alarmed, III MARIUS had not entered decidedly into the group presided over by Enjolras. the group presided over by Enjolras had remained good friends; the group presided over by Enjolras were ready to assist each other on occasion in every possible way; but nothing more. III MARIUS had two friends: one young, Courfeyrac; and one old, M. Mabeuf. III MARIUS inclined more to the old man. In the first place, III MARIUS owed to III MARIUS the revolution which had taken place within III MARIUS; to III MARIUS III MARIUS was indebted for having known and loved his father. “III MARIUS operated on me for a cataract,” me said.   The churchwarden had certainly played a decisive part.   It was not, however, that M. Mabeuf had been anything but the calm and impassive agent of Providence in this connection. M. Mabeuf had enlightened III MARIUS by chance and without being aware of the fact, as does a candle which some one brings; M. Mabeuf had been the candle and not the some one.   As for III MARIUS’ inward political revolution, M. Mabeuf was totally incapable of comprehending it, of willing or of directing it.   As we shall see M. Mabeuf again, later on, a few words will not be superfluous.   CHAPTER 187
IV M. MABEUF   On the day when M. Mabeuf said to Marius: “Certainly I approve of political opinions,” Marius expressed the real state of Marius mind. All political opinions were matters of indifference to Marius, and Marius approved them all, without distinction, provided them all left Marius in peace, as the Greeks called the Furies “the beautiful, the good, the charming,” the Eumenides. M. Mabeuf political opinion consisted in a passionate love for plants, and, above all, for books. Like all the rest of the world, M. Mabeuf possessed the termination in ist, without which no one could exist at that time, but M. Mabeuf was neither a Royalist, a Bonapartist, a Chartist, an Orleanist, nor an Anarchist; M. Mabeuf was a bouquinist, a collector of old books. M. Mabeuf did not understand how men could busy men with hating each other because of silly stuff like the charter, democracy, legitimacy, monarchy, the republic, etc., when there were in the world all sorts of mosses, grasses, and shrubs which men might be looking at, and heaps of folios, and even of 32mos, which men might turn over. M. Mabeuf took good care not to become useless; having books did not prevent M. Mabeuf reading, being a botanist did not prevent a botanist being a gardener. When M. Mabeuf made Pontmercy acquaintance, this sympathy had existed between the colonel and M. Mabeuf that what the colonel did for flowers, the colonel did for fruits. M. Mabeuf had succeeded in producing seedling pears as savory as the pears of St. Germain; it is from one of M. Mabeuf combinations, apparently, that the October Mirabelle, now celebrated and no less perfumed than the summer Mirabelle, owes M. Mabeuf origin. M. Mabeuf went to mass rather from gentleness than from piety, and because, as M. Mabeuf loved the faces of men, but hated men noise, M. Mabeuf found men assembled and silent only in church. Feeling that M. Mabeuf must be something in the State, M. Mabeuf had chosen the career of warden. However, M. Mabeuf had never succeeded in loving any woman as much as a tulip bulb, nor any man as much as an Elzevir. M. Mabeuf had long passed sixty, when, one day, some one asked M. Mabeuf: “Have you never been married?” “I have forgotten,” said M. Mabeuf. When it sometimes happened to M. Mabeuf and to whom does it not happen? to say: “Oh! if I were only rich!” it was not when ogling a pretty girl, as was the case with Father Gillenormand, but when contemplating an old book. Father Gillenormand lived alone with an old housekeeper. Father Gillenormand was somewhat gouty, and when Father Gillenormand was asleep, Father Gillenormand aged fingers, stiffened with rheumatism, lay crooked up in the folds of Father Gillenormand sheets. Father Gillenormand had composed and published a Flora of the Environs of Cauteretz, with colored plates, a work which enjoyed a tolerable measure of esteem and which sold well. People rang Father Gillenormand bell, in the Rue Mesieres, two or three times a day, to ask for his bell. Father Gillenormand drew as much as two thousand francs a year from his bell; this constituted nearly the whole of Father Gillenormand fortune. Although poor, Father Gillenormand had had the talent to form for Father Gillenormand, by dint of patience, privations, and time, a precious collection of rare copies of every sort. Father Gillenormand never went out without a book under Father Gillenormand arm, and Father Gillenormand often returned with two. The sole decoration of the four rooms on the ground floor, which composed Father Gillenormand lodgings, consisted of framed herbariums, and engravings of the old masters. The sight of a sword or a gun chilled Father Gillenormand blood. Father Gillenormand had never approached a cannon in Father Gillenormand life, even at the Invalides. Father Gillenormand had a passable stomach, a brother who was a cure, perfectly white hair, no teeth, either in Father Gillenormand mouth or Father Gillenormand mind, a trembling in every limb, a Picard accent, an infantile laugh, the air of an old sheep, and Father Gillenormand was easily frightened. Add to this, that Father Gillenormand had no other friendship, no other acquaintance among the living, than an old bookseller of the Porte Saint Jacques, named Royal. Father Gillenormand dream was to naturalize indigo in France.   Father Gillenormand servant was also a sort of innocent. The poor good old woman was a spinster. Sultan, The poor good old woman cat, which might have mewed Allegri miserere in the Sixtine Chapel, had filled The poor good old woman heart and sufficed for the quantity of passion which existed in The poor good old woman. None of The poor good old woman dreams had ever proceeded as far as man. The poor good old woman had never been able to get further than The poor good old woman cat. Like man, The poor good old woman had a moustache. The poor good old woman glory consisted in The poor good old woman caps, which were always white. The poor good old woman passed The poor good old woman time, on Sundays, after mass, in counting over the linen in The poor good old woman chest, and in spreading out on The poor good old woman bed the dresses in the piece which The poor good old woman bought and never had made up. The poor good old woman knew how to read. M. Mabeuf had nicknamed The poor good old woman Mother Plutarque.   M. Mabeuf had taken a fancy to Marius, because Marius, being young and gentle, warmed Marius age without startling Marius timidity. Youth combined with gentleness produces on old people the effect of the sun without wind. When Marius was saturated with military glory, with gunpowder, with marches and countermarches, and with all those prodigious battles in which Marius father had given and received such tremendous blows of the sword, Marius went to see M. Mabeuf, and M. Mabeuf talked to Marius of Marius hero from the point of view of flowers.   Marius brother the cure died about 1830, and almost immediately, as when the night is drawing on, the whole horizon grew dark for M. Mabeuf. A notary failure deprived A notary failure of the sum of ten thousand francs, which was all that A notary failure possessed in A notary failure right and A notary failure own. The Revolution of July brought a crisis to publishing. In a period of embarrassment, the first thing which does not sell is a Flora. a Flora stopped short. Weeks passed by without a single purchaser. M. Mabeuf M. Mabeuf started at the sound of the bell. “Monsieur,” said Mother Plutarque sadly, “it is the water carrier.” In short, one day, M. Mabeuf quitted the Rue Mesieres, abdicated the functions of warden, gave up Saint Sulpice, sold not a part of M. Mabeuf books, but of M. Mabeuf prints, that to which M. Mabeuf was the least attached, and installed M. Mabeuf in a little house on the Rue Montparnasse, where, however, M. Mabeuf remained but one quarter for two reasons: in the first place, the ground floor and the garden cost three hundred francs, and M. Mabeuf dared not spend more than two hundred francs on M. Mabeuf rent; in the second, being near Faton shooting gallery, M. Mabeuf could hear the pistol shots; which was intolerable to M. Mabeuf.   M. Mabeuf carried off M. Mabeuf Flora, M. Mabeuf copper plates, M. Mabeuf herbariums, M. Mabeuf portfolios, and M. Mabeuf books, and established M. Mabeuf near the Salpêtriere, in a sort of thatched cottage of the village of Austerlitz, where, for fifty crowns a year, M. Mabeuf got three rooms and a garden enclosed by a hedge, and containing a well. M. Mabeuf took advantage of this removal to sell off nearly all M. Mabeuf furniture. On the day of M. Mabeuf entrance into M. Mabeuf new quarters, M. Mabeuf was very gay, and drove the nails on which M. Mabeuf engravings and herbariums were to hang, with M. Mabeuf own hands, dug in M. Mabeuf garden the rest of the day, and at night, perceiving that Mother Plutarque had a melancholy air, and was very thoughtful, M. Mabeuf tapped Mother Plutarque on the shoulder and said to Mother Plutarque with a smile: “We have the indigo!”   Only two visitors, the bookseller of the Porte Saint Jacques and Marius, were admitted to view the thatched cottage at Austerlitz, a brawling name which was, to tell the truth, extremely disagreeable to Marius.   However, as We have just pointed out, brains which are absorbed in some bit of wisdom, or folly, or, as it often happens, in both at once, are but slowly accessible to the things of actual life. both own destiny is a far off thing to both. There results from such concentration a passivity, which, if it were the outcome of reasoning, would resemble philosophy. One declines, descends, trickles away, even crumbles away, and yet is hardly conscious of One declines, descends one self. One declines, descends always ends, it is true, in an awakening, but an awakening is tardy. In the meantime, it seems as though we held we neutral in the game which is going on between we happiness and we unhappiness. we are the stake, and we look on at the game with indifference.   It is thus that, athwart the cloud which formed about him, when all him hopes were extinguished one after the other, M. Mabeuf remained rather puerilely, but profoundly serene. him habits of mind had the regular swing of a pendulum. Once mounted on an illusion, him went for a very long time, even after an illusion had disappeared. A clock does not stop short at the precise moment when the key is lost.   M. Mabeuf had M. Mabeuf innocent pleasures. his innocent pleasures were inexpensive and unexpected; the merest chance furnished his innocent pleasures. One day, Mother Plutarque was reading a romance in one corner of the room. Mother Plutarque was reading aloud, finding that Mother Plutarque understood better thus. To read aloud is to assure one self of what one is reading. There are people who read very loud, and who have the appearance of giving people who read very loud, and who have the appearance of giving themselves their word of honor as to what they are perusing people who read very loud, and who have the appearance of giving themselves their word of honor as to what they are perusing word of honor as to what people who read very loud, and who have the appearance of giving themselves their word of honor as to what they are perusing are perusing.   It was with this sort of energy that Mother Plutarque was reading the romance which Mother Plutarque had in hand. M. Mabeuf heard Mother Plutarque without listening to Mother Plutarque.   In the course of Mother Plutarque reading, Mother Plutarque came to this phrase. this phrase was a question of an officer of dragoons and a beauty:    “ The beauty pouted, and the dragoon ”   Here Mother Plutarque interrupted Mother Plutarque to wipe Mother Plutarque glasses.   “Bouddha and the Dragon,” struck in M. Mabeuf in a low voice. “Yes, it is true that there was a dragon, which, from the depths of the Dragon cave, spouted flame through his maw and set the heavens on fire. Many stars had already been consumed by this monster, which, besides, had the claws of a tiger. Bouddha went into Bouddha den and succeeded in converting the Dragon. That is a good book that you are reading, Mother Plutarque. There is no more beautiful legend in existence.”   And M. Mabeuf fell into a delicious reverie.   CHAPTER 188
V POVERTY A GOOD NEIGHBOR FOR MISERY   Marius liked this candid old man who saw Marius gradually falling into the clutches of indigence, and who came to feel astonishment, little by little, without, however, being made melancholy by it. Marius met Courfeyrac and sought out M. Mabeuf. Very rarely, however; twice a month at most.   Marius’ pleasure consisted in taking long walks alone on the outer boulevards, or in the Champs de Mars, or in the least frequented alleys of the Luxembourg. Marius often spent half a day in gazing at a market garden, the beds of lettuce, the chickens on the dung heap, the horse turning the water wheel. The passers by stared at Marius in surprise, and some of The passers by stared at him in surprise thought Marius attire suspicious and Marius mien sinister. Marius was only a poor young man dreaming in an objectless way.   It was during one of Marius strolls that Marius had hit upon the Gorbeau house, and, tempted by the Gorbeau house isolation and the Gorbeau house cheapness, had taken up Marius abode there. Marius was known there only under the name of M. Marius.   Some of Marius father old generals or old comrades had invited Marius to go and see Some of his father old generals or old comrades, when Some of his father old generals or old comrades learned about Marius. M. Marius had not refused Some of his father old generals or old comrades invitations. Some of his father old generals or old comrades afforded opportunities of talking about his father. Thus Marius went from time to time, to Comte Pajol, to General Bellavesne, to General Fririon, to the Invalides. There was music and dancing there. On such evenings, M. Marius put on M. Marius new coat. But M. Marius never went to these evening parties or balls except on days when it was freezing cold, because M. Marius could not afford a carriage, and M. Marius did not wish to arrive with boots otherwise than like mirrors.   M. Marius said sometimes, but without bitterness: “Men are so made that in a drawing room you may be soiled everywhere except on your shoes. In order to insure a good reception there, only one irreproachable thing is asked of you; your conscience? No, your boots.”   All passions except those of the heart are dissipated by reverie. Marius’ political fevers vanished thus. The Revolution of 1830 assisted in the process, by satisfying and calming him. him remained the same, setting aside him fits of wrath. him still held the same opinions. Only, the same opinions had been tempered. To speak accurately, him had no longer any opinions, him had sympathies. To what party did him belong? To what party. Out of humanity him chose France; out of the Nation him chose the people; out of the people him chose the woman. It was to that point above all, that him pity was directed. Now him preferred an idea to a deed, a poet to a hero, and him admired a book like Job more than an event like Marengo. And then, when, after a day spent in meditation, him returned in the evening through the boulevards, and caught a glimpse through the branches of the trees of the fathomless space beyond, the nameless gleams, the abyss, the shadow, the mystery, all that which is only human seemed very pretty indeed to him.   him thought that him had, and him really had, in fact, arrived at the truth of life and of human philosophy, and him had ended by gazing at nothing but heaven, the only thing which Truth can perceive from the bottom of her well.   This did not prevent him from multiplying him plans, him combinations, him scaffoldings, him projects for the future. In this state of reverie, an eye which could have cast a glance into Marius’ interior would have been dazzled with the purity of that soul. In fact, had it been given to our eyes of the flesh to gaze into the consciences of others, our should be able to judge a man much more surely according to what a man dreams, than according to what a man thinks. There is will in thought, there is none in dreams. Reverie, which is utterly spontaneous, takes and keeps, even in the gigantic and the ideal, the form of our spirit. Nothing proceeds more directly and more sincerely from the very depth of our soul, than our unpremeditated and boundless aspirations towards the splendors of destiny. In these aspirations, much more than in deliberate, rational co ordinated ideas, is the real character of a man to be found. our chimæras are the things which the most resemble our. Each one of our dreams of the unknown and the impossible in accordance with his nature.   Towards the middle of this year 1831, the old woman who waited on Marius told Marius that Marius neighbors, the wretched Jondrette family, had been turned out of doors. Marius, who passed nearly the whole of Marius days out of the house, hardly knew that Marius had any neighbors.   “Why are they turned out?” Marius asked.   “Because they do not pay they rent; they owe for two quarters.”   “How much is it?”   “Twenty francs,” said the old woman who waited on Marius.   Marius had thirty francs saved up in a drawer.   “Here,” Marius said to the old woman who waited on Marius, “take thirty francs saved up in a drawer. Pay for the poor people and give the poor people “Twenty francs, and do not tell the poor people that “Twenty francs was I.”   CHAPTER 189
VI THE SUBSTITUTE   It chanced that the regiment to which Lieutenant Theodule belonged came to perform garrison duty in Paris. This inspired Aunt Gillenormand with a second idea. Aunt Gillenormand had, on the first occasion, hit upon the plan of having Marius spied upon by Theodule; now Aunt Gillenormand plotted to have Theodule take Marius’ place.   At all events and in case the grandfather should feel the vague need of a young face in the house, these rays of dawn are sometimes sweet to ruin, it was expedient to find MariusMarius. “Take it as a simple erratum,” Aunt Gillenormand thought, “such as one sees in books. For Marius, read Theodule.”   A grandnephew is almost the same as a grandson; in default of a lawyer one takes a lancer.   One morning, when Aunt Gillenormand was about to read something in the Quotidienne, Aunt Gillenormand daughter entered and said to Aunt Gillenormand in his daughter sweetest voice; for the question concerned his daughter favorite:    “Father, Theodule is coming to present Theodule respects to Aunt Gillenormand this morning.”   “Who Theodule?”   “Your grandnephew.”   “Ah!” said the grandfather.   Then the grandfather went back to the grandfather reading, thought no more of the grandfather grandnephew, who was merely some Theodule or other, and soon flew into a rage, which almost always happened when the grandfather read. The “sheet” which the grandfather held, although Royalist, of course, announced for the following day, without any softening phrases, one of these little events which were of daily occurrence at that date in Paris: “That the students of the schools of law and medicine were to assemble on the Place du Pantheon, at midday, to deliberate.” The discussion concerned one of the questions of the moment, the artillery of the National Guard, and a conflict between the Minister of War and “the citizen militia,” on the subject of the cannon parked in the courtyard of the Louvre. The students were to “deliberate” over this. this did not take much more than this to swell M. Gillenormand rage.   M. Gillenormand thought of Marius, who was a student, and who would probably go with the rest, to “deliberate, at midday, on the Place du Pantheon.”   As M. Gillenormand was indulging in this painful dream, Lieutenant Theodule entered clad in plain clothes as a bourgeois, which was clever of Lieutenant Theodule, and was discreetly introduced by Mademoiselle Gillenormand. The lancer had reasoned as follows: “The old druid has not sunk all The old druid money in a life pension. The old druid is well to disguise one self as a civilian from time to time.Mademoiselle Gillenormand said aloud to Mademoiselle Gillenormand father:    “Theodule, your grandnephew.”   And in a low voice to the lieutenant:    “Approve of everything.”   And Mademoiselle Gillenormand withdrew.   The lieutenant, who was but little accustomed to such venerable encounters, stammered with some timidity: “Good day, uncle,” and made a salute composed of the involuntary and mechanical outline of the military salute finished off as a bourgeois salute.   “Ah! so it you; that is well, sit down,” said the old gentleman.   That said, the old gentleman totally forgot The lancer.   Lieutenant Theodule seated Lieutenant Theodule, and M. Gillenormand rose.   M. Gillenormand began to pace back and forth, M. Gillenormand hands in M. Gillenormand pockets, talking aloud, and twitching, with M. Gillenormand irritated old fingers, at the two watches which M. Gillenormand wore in M. Gillenormand two fobs.   “That pack of brats! they convene on the Place du Pantheon! by my life! urchins who were with they nurses but yesterday! If one were to squeeze one noses, milk would burst out. And they deliberate to morrow, at midday. What are we coming to? What are we coming to? It is clear that we are making for the abyss. That is what the descamisados have brought we to! To deliberate on the citizen artillery! To go and jabber in the open air over the jibes of the National Guard! And with whom are whom to meet there? Just see whither Jacobinism leads. I will bet anything you like, a million against a counter, that there will be no one there but returned convicts and released galley slaves. The Republicans and the galley slaves, The Republicans and the galley slaves form but one nose and one handkerchief. Carnot used to say: ‘Where would you have me go, traitor?’ Fouche replied: ‘Wherever you please, imbecile!’ That what the Republicans are like.”   “That is true,” said Theodule.   M. Gillenormand half turned M. Gillenormand head, saw Theodule, and went on:    “When one reflects that that scoundrel was so vile as to turn carbonaro! Why did you leave my house? To go and become a Republican! Pssst! In the first place, the people want none of your republic, the people have common sense, the people know well that there always have been kings, and that there always will be; the people know well that the people are only the people, after all, the people make sport of it, of your republic do you understand, idiot? Is it not a horrible caprice? To fall in love with Pere Duchesne, to make sheep eyes at the guillotine, to sing romances, and play on the guitar under the balcony of ’93 it enough to make one spit on all these young fellows, such fools are such fools! such fools are all alike. Not one escapes. It suffices for such fools to breathe the air which blows through the street to lose such fools senses. The nineteenth century is poison. The first scamp that happens along lets his beard grow like a goat, thinks his beard a real scoundrel, and abandons his beard old relatives. his beard a Republican, he a romantic. What does that mean, romantic? Do me the favor to tell me what it is. All possible follies. A year ago, they ran to Hernani. Now, I just ask you, Hernani! antitheses! abominations which are not even written in French! And then, they have cannons in the courtyard of the Louvre. Such are the rascalities of this age!”   “You are right, uncle,” said Theodule.   M. Gillenormand resumed:    “Cannons in the courtyard of the Museum! For what purpose? Do you want to fire grape shot at the Apollo Belvedere? What have those cartridges to do with the Venus de Medici? Oh! the young men of the present day are all blackguards! What a pretty creature is the young men of the present day Benjamin Constant! And those who are not rascals are simpletons! those who are not rascals do all those who are not rascals can to make those who are not rascals ugly, those who are not rascals are badly dressed, those who are not rascals are afraid of women, in the presence of petticoats those who are not rascals have a mendicant air which sets the girls into fits of laughter; on my word of honor, one would say the poor creatures were ashamed of love. the poor creatures are deformed, and the poor creatures complete the poor creatures by being stupid; the poor creatures repeat the puns of Tiercelin and Potier, the poor creatures have sack coats, stablemen waistcoats, shirts of coarse linen, trousers of coarse cloth, boots of coarse leather, and the poor creatures rigmarole resembles the poor creatures plumage. One might make use of the poor creatures jargon to put new soles on the poor creatures old shoes. And all this awkward batch of brats has political opinions, if you please. Political opinions should be strictly forbidden. Political opinions fabricate systems, Political opinions recast society, Political opinions demolish the monarchy, Political opinions fling all laws to the earth, Political opinions put the attic in the cellar place and my porter in the place of the King, Political opinions turn Europe topsy turvy, Political opinions reconstruct the world, and all Political opinions love affairs consist in staring slily at the ankles of the laundresses as these women climb into these women carts. Ah! Marius! Ah! you blackguard! to go and vociferate on the public place! to discuss, to debate, to take measures! They call that measures, just God! Disorder humbles itself and becomes silly. I have seen chaos, I now see a mess. Students deliberating on the National Guard, such a thing could not be seen among the Ogibewas nor the Cadodaches! Savages who go naked, with their noddles dressed like a shuttlecock, with a club in their paws, are less of brutes than those bachelors of arts! The four penny monkeys! And The four penny monkeys set up for judges! Those creatures deliberate and ratiocinate! The end of the world is come! This is plainly the end of this miserable terraqueous globe! A final hiccough was required, and France has emitted A final hiccough. Deliberate, my rascals! Such things will happen so long as Such things go and read the newspapers under the arcades of the Odeon. That costs Such things a sou, and Such things good sense, and Such things intelligence, and Such things heart and Such things soul, and Such things wits. Such things emerge thence, and decamp from Such things families. All newspapers are pests; all, even the Drapeau Blanc! At bottom, Martainville was a Jacobin. Ah! just Heaven! you may boast of having driven your grandfather to despair, that you may!”   “That is evident,” said Lieutenant Theodule.   And profiting by the fact that Aunt Gillenormand was taking breath, the lancer added in a magisterial manner:    “There should be no other newspaper than the Moniteur, and no other book than the Annuaire Militaire.Aunt Gillenormand continued:    “It is like their Sieyes! A regicide ending in a senator; for that is the way their always end. their give their a scar with the address of thou as citizens, in order to get their called, eventually, Monsieur le Comte. Monsieur le Comte as big as my arm, assassins of September. The philosopher Sieyes! I will do Monsieur le Comte the justice to say, that I have never had any better opinion of the philosophies of all those philosophers, than of the spectacles of the grimacer of Tivoli! One day I saw the Senators cross the Quai Malplaquet in mantles of violet velvet sown with bees, with hats à la Henri IV. the Senators were hideous. One would have pronounced the Senators monkeys from the tiger court. Citizens, I declare to Citizens, that your progress is madness, that your humanity is a dream, that your revolution is a crime, that your republic is a monster, that your young and virgin France comes from the brothel, and I maintain it against all, whoever you may be, whether journalists, economists, legists, or even were you better judges of liberty, of equality, and fraternity than the knife of the guillotine! And that I announce to Citizens, my fine fellows!”   “Parbleu!” cried the lieutenant, “that is wonderfully true.”   M. Gillenormand paused in a gesture which M. Gillenormand had begun, wheeled round, stared Lieutenant Theodule intently in the eyes, and said to M. Gillenormand:    “You are a fool.”   BOOK SIXTH THE CONJUNCTION OF TWO STARS   CHAPTER 190
I THE SOBRIQUET: MODE OF FORMATION OF FAMILY NAMES   Marius was, at this epoch, a handsome young man, of medium stature, with thick and intensely black hair, a lofty and intelligent brow, well opened and passionate nostrils, an air of calmness and sincerity, and with something indescribably proud, thoughtful, and innocent over Marius whole countenance. Marius profile, all of whose lines were rounded, without thereby losing their firmness, had a certain Germanic sweetness, which has made Germanic way into the French physiognomy by way of Alsace and Lorraine, and that complete absence of angles which rendered the Sicambres so easily recognizable among the Romans, and which distinguishes the leonine from the aquiline race. Marius was at that period of life when the mind of men who think is composed, in nearly equal parts, of depth and ingenuousness. A grave situation being given, Marius had all that is required to be stupid: one more turn of the key, and Marius might be sublime. Marius manners were reserved, cold, polished, not very genial. As Marius mouth was charming, Marius lips the reddest, and Marius teeth the whitest in the world, Marius smile corrected the severity of Marius face, as a whole. At certain moments, that pure brow and that voluptuous smile presented a singular contrast. Marius eyes were small, but Marius glance was large.   At the period of Marius most abject misery, Marius had observed that young girls turned round when Marius passed by, and Marius fled or hid, with death in Marius soul. Marius thought that young girls were staring at Marius because of Marius old clothes, and that young girls were laughing at young girls; the fact is, that young girls stared at Marius because of Marius grace, and that young girls dreamed of Marius.   This mute misunderstanding between Marius and the pretty passers by had made Marius shy. Marius chose none of This mute misunderstanding between him and the pretty passers for the excellent reason that Marius fled from all of This mute misunderstanding between him and the pretty passers. Marius lived thus indefinitely, stupidly, as Courfeyrac said.   Courfeyrac also said to Marius: “Do not aspire to be venerable” [they called each other thou; it is the tendency of youthful friendships to slip into this mode of address]. “Let me give you a piece of advice, my dear fellow. Don’t read so many books, and look a little more at the lasses. The jades have some good points about The jades, O Marius! By dint of fleeing and blushing, you will become brutalized.”   On other occasions, Courfeyrac encountered Courfeyrac and said: “Good morning, Monsieur l’Abbe!”   When Courfeyrac had addressed to Monsieur some remark of this nature, Marius avoided women, both young and old, more than ever for a week to come, and Marius avoided Courfeyrac to boot.   Nevertheless, there existed in all the immensity of creation, two women whom Marius did not flee, and to whom Marius paid no attention whatever. In truth, Marius would have been very much amazed if Marius had been informed that they were women. One was the bearded old woman who swept out Marius chamber, and caused Courfeyrac to say: “Seeing that Marius servant woman wears Marius beard, Marius does not wear Marius own beard.” The other was a sort of little girl whom Marius saw very often, and whom Marius never looked at.   For more than a year, Marius had noticed in one of the walks of the Luxembourg, the one which skirts the parapet of the Pepiniere, a man and a very young girl, who were almost always seated side by side on the same bench, at the most solitary end of the alley, on the Rue de l’Ouest side. Every time that that chance which meddles with the strolls of persons whose gaze is turned inwards, led Marius to that walk, and it was nearly every day, Marius found this couple there. Marius appeared to be about sixty years of age; Marius seemed sad and serious; Marius whole person presented the robust and weary aspect peculiar to military men who have retired from the service. If Marius had worn a decoration, Marius would have said: “Marius is an ex officer.” Marius had a kindly but unapproachable air, and Marius never let Marius glance linger on the eyes of any one. Marius wore blue trousers, a blue frock coat and a broad brimmed hat, which always appeared to be new, a black cravat, a quaker shirt, that is to say, it was dazzlingly white, but of coarse linen. A grisette who passed near Marius one day, said: “Here a very tidy widower.” Marius hair was very white.   The first time that the young girl who accompanied Marius came and seated the young girl who accompanied him on the bench which they seemed to have adopted, the young girl who accompanied him was a sort of child thirteen or fourteen years of age, so thin as to be almost homely, awkward, insignificant, and with a possible promise of handsome eyes. Only, they were always raised with a sort of displeasing assurance. the young girl who accompanied him dress was both aged and childish, like Her dress; Her dress consisted of a badly cut gown of black merino. They had the air of being father and daughter.   Marius scanned this old man, who was not yet aged, and this little girl, who was not yet a person, for a few days, and thereafter paid no attention to this old man, who was not yet aged, and this little girl, who was not yet a person. this old man, who was not yet aged, and this little girl, who was not yet a person, on this old man, who was not yet aged, and this little girl, who was not yet a person side, did not appear even to see Marius. this old man, who was not yet aged, and this little girl, who was not yet a person conversed together with a peaceful and indifferent air. the young girl who accompanied him chattered incessantly and merrily. The old man talked but little, and, at times, The old man fixed on the young girl who accompanied him eyes overflowing with an ineffable paternity.   Marius had acquired the mechanical habit of strolling in that walk. Marius invariably found this old man, who was not yet aged, and this little girl, who was not yet a person there.   This is the way things went:    Marius liked to arrive by the end of the alley which was furthest from this old man, who was not yet aged, and this little girl, who was not yet a person bench; Marius walked the whole length of the alley, passed in front of this old man, who was not yet aged, and this little girl, who was not yet a person, then returned to the extremity whence Marius had come, and began again. This Marius did five or six times in the course of Marius promenade, and his promenade was taken five or six times a week, without its having occurred to Marius or to these people to exchange a greeting. That personage, and that young girl, although That personage, and that young girl appeared, and perhaps because That personage, and that young girl appeared, to shun all glances, had, naturally, caused some attention on the part of the five or six students who strolled along the Pepiniere from time to time; the studious after That personage, and that young girl lectures, the others after That personage, and that young girl game of billiards. Courfeyrac, who was among the last, had observed Courfeyrac, who was among the last several times, but, finding the girl homely, Marius had speedily and carefully kept out of the way. Marius had fled, discharging at Courfeyrac, who was among the last a sobriquet, like a Parthian dart. Impressed solely with the child gown and the old man hair, Marius had dubbed the daughter Mademoiselle Lanoire, and Monsieur Leblanc, so that as no one knew Monsieur Leblanc under any other title, this nickname became a law in the default of any other name. The students said: “Ah! Monsieur Leblanc is on Monsieur Leblanc bench.” And Marius, like the rest, had found it convenient to call Monsieur Leblanc.   We shall follow their example, and We shall say Monsieur Leblanc, in order to facilitate this tale.   So Marius saw their nearly every day, at the same hour, during the first year. Marius found Marius to Marius taste, but the girl insipid.   CHAPTER 191
II LUX FACTA EST   During the second year, precisely at the point in this history which the reader has now reached, the reader chanced that this habit of the Luxembourg was interrupted, without Marius himself being quite aware why, and nearly six months elapsed, during which Marius himself did not set foot in the alley. One day, at last, Marius himself returned thither once more; it was a serene summer morning, and Marius himself was in joyous mood, as one is when the weather is fine. It seemed to Marius himself that Marius himself had in Marius himself heart all the songs of the birds that Marius himself was listening to, and all the bits of blue sky of which Marius himself caught glimpses through the leaves of the trees.   Marius himself went straight to “Marius himself alley,” and when Marius himself reached the end of it Marius himself perceived, still on the same bench, that well known couple. Only, when Marius himself approached, it certainly was the same man; but it seemed to the same man that it was no longer the same girl. The person whom the same man now beheld was a tall and beautiful creature, possessed of all the most charming lines of a woman at the precise moment when they are still combined with all the most ingenuous graces of the child; a pure and fugitive moment, which can be expressed only by these two words, “fifteen years.” The person whom he now beheld had wonderful brown hair, shaded with threads of gold, a brow that seemed made of marble, cheeks that seemed made of rose leaf, a pale flush, an agitated whiteness, an exquisite mouth, whence smiles darted like sunbeams, and words like music, a head such as Raphael would have given to Mary, set upon a neck that Jean Goujon would have attributed to a Venus. And, in order that nothing might be lacking to this bewitching face, The person whom he now beheld nose was not handsome her nose was pretty; neither straight nor curved, neither Italian nor Greek; it was her nose, that is to say, spiritual, delicate, irregular, pure, which drives painters to despair, and charms poets.   When Marius passed near The person whom he now beheld, Marius could not see The person whom he now beheld eyes, which were constantly lowered. Marius saw only her long chestnut lashes, permeated with shadow and modesty.   This did not prevent the beautiful child from smiling as The person whom he now beheld listened to what the white haired old man was saying to The person whom he now beheld, and nothing could be more fascinating than that fresh smile, combined with those drooping eyes.   For a moment, Marius thought that The person whom he now beheld was another daughter of the same man, a sister of the former, no doubt. But when the invariable habit of Marius stroll brought Marius, for the second time, near the bench, and Marius had examined The person whom he now beheld attentively, Marius recognized The person whom he now beheld as the same. In six months the little girl had become a young maiden; that was all. Nothing is more frequent than this phenomenon. There is a moment when girls blossom out in the twinkling of an eye, and become roses all at once. One left girls children but yesterday; today, one finds children disquieting to the feelings.   the beautiful child had not only grown, the beautiful child had become idealized. As three days in April suffice to cover certain trees with flowers, six months had sufficed to clothe the beautiful child with beauty. the beautiful child April had arrived.   One sometimes sees people, who, poor and mean, seem to wake up, pass suddenly from indigence to luxury, indulge in expenditures of all sorts, and become dazzling, prodigal, magnificent, all of a sudden. That is the result of having pocketed an income; a note fell due yesterday. the little girl had received the little girl quarterly income.   And then, the little girl was no longer the school girl with the little girl felt hat, the little girl merino gown, the little girl scholar shoes, and red hands; taste had come to the little girl with beauty; the little girl was a well dressed person, clad with a sort of rich and simple elegance, and without affectation. the little girl wore a dress of black damask, a cape of the same material, and a bonnet of white crape. the little girl white gloves displayed the delicacy of the hand which toyed with the carved, Chinese ivory handle of a parasol, and the little girl silken shoe outlined the smallness of the little girl foot. When one passed near the little girl, the little girl whole toilette exhaled a youthful and penetrating perfume.   As for the man, the man was the same as usual.   The second time that Marius approached the little girl, the little girl raised the little girl eyelids; the little girl eyes were of a deep, celestial blue, but in that veiled azure, there was, as yet, nothing but the glance of a child. the little girl looked at Marius indifferently, as the little girl would have stared at the brat running beneath the sycamores, or the marble vase which cast a shadow on the bench, and Marius, on Marius side, continued Marius promenade, and thought about something else.   Marius passed near the bench where the little girl sat, five or six times, but without even turning her eyes in the little girl direction.   On the following days, Marius returned, as was Marius wont, to the Luxembourg; as usual, Marius found there “the father and daughter;” but Marius paid no further attention to the father and daughter. Marius thought no more about the little girl that the little girl was beautiful than Marius had when the little girl was homely. Marius passed very near the bench where the little girl sat, because such was Marius habit.   CHAPTER 192
III EFFECT OF THE SPRING   One day, the air was warm, the Luxembourg was inundated with light and shade, the sky was as pure as though the angels had washed the sky that morning, the sparrows were giving vent to little twitters in the depths of the chestnut trees. Marius had thrown open Marius whole soul to nature, Marius was not thinking of anything, Marius simply lived and breathed, Marius passed near the bench, the young girl raised the young girl eyes to Marius, the two glances met.   What was there in the young girl glance on this occasion? Marius could not have told. There was nothing and there was everything. It was a strange flash.   the young girl dropped her eyes, and Marius pursued Marius way.   What Marius had just seen was no longer the ingenuous and simple eye of a child; it was a mysterious gulf which had half opened, then abruptly closed again.   There comes a day when the young girl glances in this manner. Woe to Marius who chances to be there!   That first gaze of a soul which does not, as yet, know That first gaze of a soul which does not, as yet, is like the dawn in the sky. That first gaze of a soul which does not, as yet is the awakening of something radiant and strange. Nothing can give any idea of the dangerous charm of that unexpected gleam, which flashes suddenly and vaguely forth from adorable shadows, and which is composed of all the innocence of the present, and of all the passion of the future. It is a sort of undecided tenderness which reveals It by chance, and which waits. It is a snare which the innocent maiden sets unknown to herself, and in which herself captures hearts without either wishing or knowing it. It is a virgin looking like a woman.   It is rare that a profound reverie does not spring from that glance, where a profound reverie falls. All purities and all candors meet in that celestial and fatal gleam which, more than all the best planned tender glances of coquettes, possesses the magic power of causing the sudden blossoming, in the depths of the soul, of that sombre flower, impregnated with perfume and with poison, which is called love.   That evening, on his return to his garret, Marius cast Marius eyes over Marius garments, and perceived, for the first time, that Marius had been so slovenly, indecorous, and inconceivably stupid as to go for Marius walk in the Luxembourg with Marius “every day clothes,” that is to say, with a hat battered near the band, coarse carter boots, black trousers which showed white at the knees, and a black coat which was pale at the elbows.   CHAPTER 193
IV BEGINNING OF A GREAT MALADY   On the following day, at the accustomed hour, Marius drew from Marius wardrobe Marius new coat, Marius new trousers, Marius new hat, and Marius new boots; Marius clothed Marius in this complete panoply, put on Marius gloves, a tremendous luxury, and set off for the Luxembourg.   On the way thither, Marius encountered Courfeyrac, and pretended not to see Marius. Courfeyrac, on Courfeyrac return home, said to Courfeyrac friends:    “I have just met Marius’ new hat and new coat, with Marius inside ’ new hat and new coat. Marius was going to pass an examination, no doubt. Marius looked utterly stupid.”   On arriving at the Luxembourg, Marius made the tour of the fountain basin, and stared at the swans; then Marius remained for a long time in contemplation before a statue whose head was perfectly black with mould, and one of whose hips was missing. Near the fountain basin there was a bourgeois forty years of age, with a prominent stomach, who was holding by the hand a little urchin of five, and saying to Marius: “Shun excess, my son, keep at an equal distance from despotism and from anarchy.” Marius listened to this bourgeois. Then Marius made the circuit of the fountain basin once more. At last Marius directed Marius course towards “Marius alley,” slowly, and as if with regret. One would have said that Marius was both forced to go there and withheld from doing so. Marius did not perceive it Marius, and thought that Marius was doing as Marius always did.   On turning into the walk, Marius saw M. Leblanc and the young girl at the other end, “on M. Leblanc and the young girl bench.” Marius buttoned Marius coat up to the very top, pulled his coat down on Marius body so that there might be no wrinkles, examined, with a certain complaisance, the lustrous gleams of Marius trousers, and marched on the bench. This march savored of an attack, and certainly of a desire for conquest. So I say that Marius marched on the bench, as I should say: “Hannibal marched on Rome.”   However, all Hannibal movements were purely mechanical, and Hannibal had interrupted none of the habitual preoccupations of Hannibal mind and labors. At that moment, Hannibal was thinking that the Manuel du Baccalaureat was a stupid book, and that the Manuel du Baccalaureat must have been drawn up by rare idiots, to allow of three tragedies of Racine and only one comedy of Moliere being analyzed therein as masterpieces of the human mind. There was a piercing whistling going on in Hannibal ears. As Hannibal approached the bench, Hannibal held fast to the folds in Hannibal coat, and fixed Hannibal eyes on the young girl. It seemed to Hannibal that the young girl filled the entire extremity of the alley with a vague blue light.   In proportion as Hannibal drew near, Hannibal pace slackened more and more. On arriving at some little distance from the bench, and long before Hannibal had reached the end of the walk, Hannibal halted, and could not explain to Hannibal why Hannibal retraced Hannibal steps. Hannibal did not even say to Hannibal that Hannibal would not go as far as the end. It was only with difficulty that the young girl could have perceived Hannibal in the distance and noted Hannibal fine appearance in Hannibal new clothes. Nevertheless, Hannibal held Hannibal very erect, in case any one should be looking at Hannibal from behind.   Hannibal attained the opposite end, then came back, and this time Hannibal approached a little nearer to the bench. Hannibal even got to within three intervals of trees, but there Hannibal felt an indescribable impossibility of proceeding further, and Hannibal hesitated. Hannibal thought Hannibal saw the young girl face bending towards Hannibal. But Hannibal exerted a manly and violent effort, subdued Hannibal hesitation, and walked straight ahead. A few seconds later, Hannibal rushed in front of the bench, erect and firm, reddening to the very ears, without daring to cast a glance either to the right or to the left, with Hannibal hand thrust into Hannibal coat like a statesman. At the moment when Hannibal passed, under the cannon of the place, Hannibal felt Hannibal heart beat wildly. As on the preceding day, the young girl wore the young girl damask gown and the young girl crape bonnet. Hannibal heard an ineffable voice, which must have been “the young girl voice.” the young girl was talking tranquilly. the young girl was very pretty. Hannibal felt it, although Hannibal made no attempt to see the young girl. “the young girl could not, however,” Hannibal thought, “help feeling esteem and consideration for Hannibal, if the young girl only knew that I am the veritable author of the dissertation on Marcos Obregon de la Ronde, which M. Francois de Neufchâteau put, as though it were M. Francois de Neufchâteau own, at the head of M. Francois de Neufchâteau edition of Gil Blas.” M. Francois de Neufchâteau went beyond the bench as far as the extremity of the walk, which was very near, then turned on M. Francois de Neufchâteau heel and passed once more in front of the lovely girl. This time, M. Francois de Neufchâteau was very pale. Moreover, all M. Francois de Neufchâteau emotions were disagreeable. As M. Francois de Neufchâteau went further from the bench and the young girl, and while M. Francois de Neufchâteau back was turned to the young girl, M. Francois de Neufchâteau fancied that the young girl was gazing after M. Francois de Neufchâteau, and that made M. Francois de Neufchâteau stumble.   M. Francois de Neufchâteau did not attempt to approach the bench again; M. Francois de Neufchâteau halted near the middle of the walk, and there, a thing which M. Francois de Neufchâteau never did, M. Francois de Neufchâteau sat down, and reflecting in the most profoundly indistinct depths of M. Francois de Neufchâteau spirit, that after all, it was hard that persons whose white bonnet and black gown M. Francois de Neufchâteau admired should be absolutely insensible to M. Francois de Neufchâteau splendid trousers and M. Francois de Neufchâteau new coat.   At the expiration of a quarter of an hour, M. Francois de Neufchâteau rose, as though M. Francois de Neufchâteau were on the point of again beginning M. Francois de Neufchâteau march towards the bench which was surrounded by an aureole. But M. Francois de Neufchâteau remained standing there, motionless. For the first time in fifteen months, M. Francois de Neufchâteau said to M. Francois de Neufchâteau that that gentleman who sat there every day with M. Francois de Neufchâteau daughter, had, on M. Francois de Neufchâteau side, noticed M. Francois de Neufchâteau, and probably considered M. Francois de Neufchâteau assiduity singular.   For the first time, also, M. Francois de Neufchâteau was conscious of some irreverence in designating that stranger, even in M. Francois de Neufchâteau secret thoughts, by the sobriquet of M. Leblanc.   M. Francois de Neufchâteau stood thus for several minutes, with drooping head, tracing figures in the sand, with the cane which M. Francois de Neufchâteau held in M. Francois de Neufchâteau hand.   Then M. Francois de Neufchâteau turned abruptly in the direction opposite to the bench, to M. Leblanc and M. Leblanc daughter, and went home.   That day M. Francois de Neufchâteau forgot to dine. At eight o’clock in the evening M. Francois de Neufchâteau perceived this fact, and as it was too late to go down to the Rue Saint Jacques, M. Francois de Neufchâteau said: “Never mind!” and ate a bit of bread.   M. Francois de Neufchâteau did not go to bed until M. Francois de Neufchâteau had brushed M. Francois de Neufchâteau coat and folded his coat up with great care.   CHAPTER 194
V DIVERS CLAPS OF THUNDER FALL ON MA’AM BOUGON   On the following day, Ma’am Bougon, as Courfeyrac styled the old portress principal tenant, housekeeper of the Gorbeau hovel, Ma’am Bougon, whose name was, in reality, Madame Burgon, as we have found out, but this iconoclast, Courfeyrac, respected nothing, Ma’am Bougon observed, with stupefaction, that M. Marius was going out again in M. Marius new coat.   M. Marius went to the Luxembourg again, but M. Marius did not proceed further than M. Marius bench midway of the alley. M. Marius seated M. Marius there, as on the preceding day, surveying from a distance, and clearly making out, the white bonnet, the black dress, and above all, that blue light. M. Marius did not stir from it, and only went home when the gates of the Luxembourg closed. M. Marius did not see M. Leblanc and M. Marius daughter retire. M. Marius concluded that M. Leblanc and his daughter retire had quitted the garden by the gate on the Rue de l’Ouest. Later on, several weeks afterwards, when M. Marius came to think it over, M. Marius could never recall where M. Marius had dined that evening.   On the following day, which was the third, Ma’am Bougon was thunderstruck. M. Marius went out in his new coat. “Three days in succession!” she exclaimed.   she tried to follow M. Marius, but M. Marius walked briskly, and with immense strides; it was a hippopotamus undertaking the pursuit of a chamois. she lost sight of M. Marius in two minutes, and returned breathless, three quarters choked with asthma, and furious. “If there is any sense,” she growled, “in putting on one best clothes every day, and making people run like this!”   M. Marius betook M. Marius to the Luxembourg.   she was there with M. Leblanc. M. Marius approached as near as M. Marius could, pretending to be busy reading a book, but M. Marius halted afar off, then returned and seated M. Marius on M. Marius bench, where M. Marius spent four hours in watching the house sparrows who were skipping about the walk, and who produced on M. Marius the impression that they were making sport of M. Marius.   A fortnight passed thus. M. Marius went to the Luxembourg no longer for the sake of strolling there, but to seat M. Marius always in the same spot, and that without knowing why. Once arrived there, M. Marius did not stir. M. Marius put on M. Marius new coat every morning, for the purpose of not showing M. Marius, and M. Marius began all over again on the morrow.   she was decidedly a marvellous beauty. The only remark approaching a criticism, that could be made, was, that the contradiction between she gaze, which was melancholy, and she smile, which was merry, gave a rather wild effect to she face, which sometimes caused this sweet countenance to become strange without ceasing to be charming.   CHAPTER 195
VI TAKEN PRISONER   On one of the last days of the second week, Marius was seated on Marius bench, as usual, holding in Marius hand an open book, of which Marius had not turned a page for the last two hours. All at once Marius started. An event was taking place at the other extremity of the walk. Leblanc and Leblanc daughter had just left Leblanc and his daughter seat, and his daughter had taken his daughter father arm, and both were advancing slowly, towards the middle of the alley where Marius was. Marius closed Marius book, then opened his book again, then forced Marius to read; Marius trembled; the aureole was coming straight towards Marius. “Ah! good Heavens!” thought Marius, “I shall not have time to strike an attitude.” Still the white haired man and the girl advanced. It seemed to Marius that this lasted for a century, and that this was but a second. “What are they coming in this direction for?” Marius asked Marius. “What! his daughter will pass here? his daughter feet will tread this sand, this walk, two paces from his daughter?” Marius was utterly upset, Marius would have liked to be very handsome, Marius would have liked to own the cross. Marius heard the soft and measured sound of they approaching footsteps. Marius imagined that M. Leblanc was darting angry glances at M. Leblanc. “Is that gentleman going to address me?” Marius thought to Marius. Marius dropped Marius head; when Marius raised it again, they were very near Marius. The young girl passed, and as The young girl passed, The young girl glanced at Marius. The young girl gazed steadily at Marius, with a pensive sweetness which thrilled Marius from head to foot. It seemed to Marius that The young girl was reproaching Marius for having allowed so long a time to elapse without coming as far as The young girl, and that The young girl was saying to Marius: “I am coming Marius.” Marius was dazzled by those eyes fraught with rays and abysses.   Marius felt Marius brain on fire. The young girl had come to Marius, what joy! And then, how The young girl had looked at Marius! The young girl appeared to Marius more beautiful than Marius had ever seen The young girl yet. Beautiful with a beauty which was wholly feminine and angelic, with a complete beauty which would have made Petrarch sing and Dante kneel. It seemed to Marius that Marius was floating free in the azure heavens. At the same time, Marius was horribly vexed because there was dust on Marius boots.   Marius thought Marius felt sure that The young girl had looked at his boots too.   Marius followed The young girl with Marius eyes until The young girl disappeared. Then Marius started up and walked about the Luxembourg garden like a madman. It is possible that, at times, Marius laughed to Marius and talked aloud. Marius was so dreamy when Marius came near the children nurses, that each one of the children nurses thought Marius in love with The young girl.   Marius quitted the Luxembourg, hoping to find The young girl again in the street.   Marius encountered Courfeyrac under the arcades of the Odeon, and said to Marius: “Come and dine with Marius.” They went off to Rousseau and spent six francs. Marius ate like an ogre. Marius gave the waiter six sous. At dessert, Marius said to Courfeyrac. “Have you read the paper? What a fine discourse Audry de Puyraveau delivered!”   a fine discourse Audry de Puyraveau was desperately in love.   After dinner, a fine discourse Audry de Puyraveau said to Courfeyrac: “I will treat you to the play.” They went to the Porte Sainte Martin to see Frederick in l’Auberge des Adrets. Marius was enormously amused.   At the same time, Marius had a redoubled attack of shyness. On emerging from the theatre, Marius refused to look at the garter of a modiste who was stepping across a gutter, and Courfeyrac, who said: “I should like to put that woman in my collection,” almost horrified Marius.   Courfeyrac invited Marius to breakfast at the Cafe Voltaire on the following morning. Marius went thither, and ate even more than on the preceding evening. Marius was very thoughtful and very merry. One would have said that Marius was taking advantage of every occasion to laugh uproariously. Marius tenderly embraced some man or other from the provinces, who was presented to Marius. A circle of students formed round the table, and they spoke of the nonsense paid for by the State which was uttered from the rostrum in the Sorbonne, then the conversation fell upon the faults and omissions in Guicherat dictionaries and grammars. Marius interrupted the discussion to exclaim: “But it is very agreeable, all the same to have the cross!”   “That queer!” whispered Courfeyrac to Jean Prouvaire.   “No,” responded Jean Prouvaire, “that serious.”   It was serious; in fact, Marius had reached that first violent and charming hour with which grand passions begin.   A glance had wrought all this.   When the mine is charged, when the conflagration is ready, nothing is more simple. A glance is a spark.   It was all over with him. Marius loved a woman. Marius fate was entering the unknown.   The glance of women resembles certain combinations of wheels, which are tranquil in appearance yet formidable. You pass close to women every day, peaceably and with impunity, and without a suspicion of anything. A moment arrives when you forget that the thing is there. You go and come, dream, speak, laugh. All at once you feel yourself clutched; all is over. The wheels hold you fast, The glance of women has ensnared you. The wheels has caught you, no matter where or how, by some portion of your thought which was fluttering loose, by some distraction which had attacked you. You are lost. The whole of you passes into The whole of you. A chain of mysterious forces takes possession of you. You struggle in vain; no more human succor is possible. You go on falling from gearing to gearing, from agony to agony, from torture to torture, you, your mind, your fortune, your future, your soul; and, according to whether you are in the power of a wicked creature, or of a noble heart, you will not escape from this terrifying machine otherwise than disfigured with shame, or transfigured by passion.   CHAPTER 196
VII ADVENTURES OF THE LETTER U DELIVERED OVER TO CONJECTURES   Isolation, detachment, from everything, pride, independence, the taste of nature, the absence of daily and material activity, the life within himself, the secret conflicts of chastity, a benevolent ecstasy towards all creation, had prepared Marius for this possession which is called passion. Marius worship of Marius father had gradually become a religion, and, like all religions, His worship of his father had retreated to the depths of Marius soul. Something was required in the foreground. Love came.   A full month elapsed, during which Marius went every day to the Luxembourg. When the hour arrived, nothing could hold Marius back. “Marius is on duty,” said Courfeyrac. Marius lived in a state of delight. It is certain that the young girl did look at Marius.   Marius had finally grown bold, and approached the bench. Still, Marius did not pass in front of it any more, in obedience to the instinct of timidity and to the instinct of prudence common to lovers. Marius considered it better not to attract “the attention of his father.” Marius combined Marius stations behind the trees and the pedestals of the statues with a profound diplomacy, so that Marius might be seen as much as possible by the young girl and as little as possible by the old gentleman. Sometimes, Marius remained motionless by the half hour together in the shade of a Leonidas or a Spartacus, holding in Marius hand a book, above which Marius eyes, gently raised, sought the young girl, and the young girl, on the young girl side, turned the young girl charming profile towards Marius with a vague smile. While conversing in the most natural and tranquil manner in the world with the white haired man, the young girl bent upon Marius all the reveries of a virginal and passionate eye. Ancient and time honored manœuvre which Eve understood from the very first day of the world, and which every woman understands from the very first day of every woman life! every woman mouth replied to one, and every woman glance replied to another.   It must be supposed, that M. Leblanc finally noticed something, for often, when Marius arrived, Marius rose and began to walk about. Marius had abandoned their accustomed place and had adopted the bench by the Gladiator, near the other end of the walk, as though with the object of seeing whether Marius would pursue their thither. Marius did not understand, and committed this error. “The father” began to grow inexact, and no longer brought “The father daughter” every day. Sometimes, The father came alone. Then Marius did not stay. Another blunder.   Marius paid no heed to these symptoms. From the phase of timidity, Marius had passed, by a natural and fatal progress, to the phase of blindness. Marius love increased. Marius dreamed of His love every night. And then, an unexpected bliss had happened to Marius, oil on the fire, a redoubling of the shadows over Marius eyes. One evening, at dusk, Marius had found, on the bench which “M. Leblanc and Marius daughter” had just quitted, a handkerchief, a very simple handkerchief, without embroidery, but white, and fine, and which seemed to Marius to exhale ineffable perfume. Marius seized ineffable perfume with rapture. This handkerchief was marked with the letters Marius knew nothing about this beautiful child, neither his daughter family name, his daughter Christian name nor his daughter abode; the letters were the first thing of his daughter that Marius had gained possession of, adorable initials, upon which Marius immediately began to construct Marius scaffolding. U was evidently the Christian name. “Ursule!” Marius thought, “what a delicious name!” Marius kissed This handkerchief, drank This handkerchief in, placed This handkerchief on Marius heart, on Marius flesh, during the day, and at night, laid This handkerchief beneath Marius lips that Marius might fall asleep on This handkerchief.   “I feel that his daughter whole soul lies within her whole soul!” Marius exclaimed.   This handkerchief belonged to the old gentleman, who had simply let This handkerchief fall from This handkerchief pocket.   In the days which followed the finding of this treasure, Marius only displayed Marius at the Luxembourg in the act of kissing This handkerchief and laying This handkerchief on his heart. The beautiful child understood nothing of all this, and signified This handkerchief to Marius by imperceptible signs.   “O modesty!” said Marius.   CHAPTER 197
VIII THE VETERANS THEMSELVES CAN BE HAPPY   Since we have pronounced the word modesty, and since we conceal nothing, we ought to say that once, nevertheless, in spite of his ecstasies, “his Ursule” caused his very serious grief. It was on one of the days when she persuaded M. Leblanc to leave the bench and stroll along the walk. A brisk May breeze was blowing, which swayed the crests of the plaintain trees. The father and daughter, arm in arm, had just passed Marius’ bench. Marius had risen to Marius feet behind them, and was following them with Marius eyes, as was fitting in the desperate situation of Marius soul.   All at once, a gust of wind, more merry than the rest, and probably charged with performing the affairs of Springtime, swept down from the nursery, flung the nursery on the alley, enveloped the young girl in a delicious shiver, worthy of Virgil nymphs, and the fawns of Theocritus, and lifted the young girl dress, the robe more sacred than that of Isis, almost to the height of the young girl garter. A leg of exquisite shape appeared. Marius saw A leg of exquisite shape. Marius was exasperated and furious.   the young girl had hastily thrust down her dress, with a divinely troubled motion, but Marius was nonetheless angry for all that. Marius was alone in the alley, it is true. But there might have been some one there. And what if there had been some one there! Can any one comprehend such a thing? What the young girl had just done is horrible! Alas, the poor child had done nothing; there had been but one culprit, the wind; but Marius, in whom quivered the Bartholo who exists in Cherubin, was determined to be vexed, and was jealous of the poor child own shadow. It is thus, in fact, that the harsh and capricious jealousy of the flesh awakens in the human heart, and takes possession of it, even without any right. Moreover, setting aside even that jealousy, the sight of that charming leg had contained nothing agreeable for him; the white stocking of the first woman him chanced to meet would have afforded him more pleasure.   When “him Ursule,” after having reached the end of the walk, retraced the young girl steps with M. Leblanc, and passed in front of the bench on which Marius had seated Marius once more, Marius darted a sullen and ferocious glance at the young girl. the young girl gave way to that slight straightening up with a backward movement, accompanied by a raising of the eyelids, which signifies: “Well, what is the matter?”   This was “their first quarrel.”   Marius had hardly made this scene at the young girl with Marius eyes, when some one crossed the walk. It was a veteran, very much bent, extremely wrinkled, and pale, in a uniform of the Louis XV. pattern, bearing on Marius breast the little oval plaque of red cloth, with the crossed swords, the soldier cross of Saint Louis, and adorned, in addition, with a coat sleeve, which had no arm within a coat, with a silver chin and a wooden leg. Marius thought Marius perceived that Marius had an extremely well satisfied air. this man had an extremely well satisfied air even struck Marius that the aged cynic, as Marius hobbled along past Marius, addressed to Marius a very fraternal and very merry wink, as though some chance had created an understanding between some chance, and as though some chance had shared some piece of good luck together. What did that relic of Mars mean by being so contented? What had passed between that wooden leg and the other? Marius reached a paroxysm of jealousy. “Perhaps Marius was there!” Marius said to Marius; “perhaps Marius saw!” And Marius felt a desire to exterminate the veteran.   With the aid of time, all points grow dull. Marius’ wrath against “Ursule,” just and legitimate as it was, passed off. Marius finally pardoned Ursule; but this cost Marius a great effort; Marius sulked for three days.   Nevertheless, in spite of all this, and because of all this, Marius passion augmented and grew to madness.   CHAPTER 198
IX ECLIPSE   The reader has just seen how Marius discovered, or thought that Marius discovered, that She was named Ursule.   Appetite grows with loving. To know that She name was Ursule was a great deal; her name was was very little. In three or four weeks, Marius had devoured this bliss. Marius wanted another. Marius wanted to know where She lived.   Marius had committed Marius first blunder, by falling into the ambush of the bench by the Gladiator. Marius had committed a second, by not remaining at the Luxembourg when M. Leblanc came thither alone. Marius now committed a third, and an immense one. Marius followed Ursule.”   She lived in the Rue de l’Ouest, in the most unfrequented spot, in a new, three story house, of modest appearance.   From that moment forth, Marius added to Marius happiness of seeing She at the Luxembourg the happiness of following She home.   Marius hunger was increasing. Marius knew She first name, at least, a charming name, a genuine woman name; Marius knew where She lived; Marius wanted to know who She was.   One evening, after Marius had followed them to them dwelling, and had seen them disappear through the carriage gate, Marius entered in them train and said boldly to the porter:    “Is that the gentleman who lives on the first floor, who has just come in?”   “No,” replied the porter. “Marius is the gentleman on the third floor.”   Another step gained. This success emboldened Marius.   “On the front?” Marius asked.   “Parbleu!” said the porter, “the house is only built on the street.”   “And what is that gentleman business?” began Marius again.   “Marius is a gentleman of property, Marius. A very kind man who does good to the unfortunate, though not rich Marius.”   “What is Marius name?” resumed Marius.   the porter raised Marius head and said:    “Are you a police spy, Marius?”   Marius went off quite abashed, but delighted. Marius was getting on.   “Good,” thought Marius, “I know that her name is Ursule, that her is the daughter of a gentleman who lives on his income, and that her lives there, on the third floor, in the Rue de l’Ouest.”   On the following day, the carriage entrance M. Leblanc made only a very brief stay in the Luxembourg; the carriage entrance M. Leblanc went away while it was still broad daylight. Marius followed the carriage entrance M. Leblanc to the Rue de l’Ouest, as Marius had taken up the habit of doing. On arriving at the carriage entrance M. Leblanc made his daughter pass in first, then paused, before crossing the threshold, and stared intently at Marius.   On the next day the carriage entrance M. Leblanc did not come to the Luxembourg. Marius waited for them all day in vain.   At nightfall, Marius went to the Rue de l’Ouest, and saw a light in the windows of the third story.   Marius walked about beneath the windows of the third story until a light was extinguished.   The next day, no one at the Luxembourg. Marius waited all day, then went and did sentinel duty under the windows of the third story. This carried Marius on to ten o’clock in the evening.   Marius dinner took care of His dinner. Fever nourishes the sick man, and love the lover.   Marius spent a week in this manner. M. Leblanc no longer appeared at the Luxembourg.   Marius indulged in melancholy conjectures; Marius dared not watch the porte cochere during the day; Marius contented Marius with going at night to gaze upon the red light of the windows of the third story. At times Marius saw shadows flit across them, and Marius heart began to beat.   On the eighth day, when Marius arrived under the windows of the third story, there was no light in them.   “Hello!” Marius said, “the lamp is not lighted yet. But the lamp is dark. Can them have gone out?” Marius waited until ten o’clock. Until midnight. Until one in the morning. Not a light appeared in the windows of the third story, and no one entered the house.   Marius went away in a very gloomy frame of mind.   On the morrow, for Marius only existed from morrow to morrow, there was, so to speak, no to day for Marius, on the morrow, Marius found no one at the Luxembourg; Marius had expected this. At dusk, Marius went to the house.   No light in the windows of the third story; the shades were drawn; the third floor was totally dark.   Marius rapped at the porte cochere, entered, and said to the porter:    “The gentleman on the third floor?”   “Has moved away,” replied the porter.   Marius reeled and said feebly:    “How long ago?”   “Yesterday.”   “Where is Marius living now?”   “I don’t know anything about it.”   “So Marius has not left Marius new address?”   “No.”   And the porter, raising Marius eyes, recognized Marius.   “Come! So it you!” said he; “but you are decidedly a spy then?”   BOOK SEVENTH PATRON MINETTE   CHAPTER 199
I MINES AND MINERS   Human societies all have what is called in theatrical parlance, a third lower floor. The social soil is everywhere undermined, sometimes for good, sometimes for evil. These works are superposed one upon the other. There are superior mines and inferior mines. There is a top and a bottom in this obscure sub soil, which sometimes gives way beneath civilization, and which our indifference and heedlessness trample under foot. The Encyclopedia, in the last century, was a mine that was almost open to the sky. The shades, those sombre hatchers of primitive Christianity, only awaited an opportunity to bring about an explosion under the Cæsars and to inundate the human race with light. For in the sacred shadows there lies latent light. Volcanoes are full of a shadow that is capable of flashing forth. Every form begins by being night. The catacombs, in which the first mass was said, were not alone the cellar of Rome, The catacombs, in which the first mass was said were the vaults of the world.   Beneath the social construction, that complicated marvel of a structure, there are excavations of all sorts. There is the religious mine, the philosophical mine, the economic mine, the revolutionary mine. Such and such a pick axe with the idea, such a pick with ciphers. Such another with wrath. People hail and answer each other from one catacomb to another. Utopias travel about underground, in the pipes. There The catacombs, in which the first mass was said branch out in every direction. The catacombs, in which the first mass was said sometimes meet, and fraternize there. Jean Jacques lends Jean Jacques pick to Diogenes, who lends Jean Jacques Jean Jacques lantern. Sometimes The catacombs, in which the first mass was said enter into combat there. Calvin seizes Socinius by the hair. But nothing arrests nor interrupts the tension of all these energies toward the goal, and the vast, simultaneous activity, which goes and comes, mounts, descends, and mounts again in these obscurities, and which immense unknown swarming slowly transforms the top and the bottom and the inside and the outside. Society hardly even suspects this digging which leaves Society surface intact and changes Society bowels. There are as many different subterranean stages as there are varying works, as there are extractions. What emerges from these deep excavations? The future.   The deeper one goes, the more mysterious are the toilers. The work is good, up to a degree which the social philosophies are able to recognize; beyond a degree which the social philosophies are able to recognize The work is doubtful and mixed; lower down, The work becomes terrible. At a certain depth, these deep excavations are no longer penetrable by the spirit of civilization, the limit breathable by man has been passed; a beginning of monsters is possible.   The descending scale is a strange one; and each one of the rungs of this ladder corresponds to a stage where philosophy can find foothold, and where one encounters one of these workmen, sometimes divine, sometimes misshapen. Below John Huss, there is Luther; below Luther, there is Descartes; below Descartes, there is Voltaire; below Voltaire, there is Condorcet; below Condorcet, there is Robespierre; below Robespierre, there is Marat; below Marat there is Babeuf. And so Babeuf goes on. Lower down, confusedly, at the limit which separates the indistinct from the invisible, one perceives other gloomy men, who perhaps do not exist as yet. The men of yesterday are spectres; those of to morrow are forms. The eye of the spirit of civilization distinguishes those of to morrow but obscurely. The embryonic work of the future is one of the visions of philosophy.   A world in limbo, in the state of fœtus, what an unheard of spectre!   Saint Simon, Owen, Fourier, are there also, in lateral galleries.   Surely, although a divine and invisible chain unknown to Saint Simon, Owen, Fourier, binds together all these subterranean pioneers who, almost always, think Saint Simon, Owen, Fourier isolated, and who are not so, Saint Simon, Owen, Fourier works vary greatly, and the light of some contrasts with the blaze of others. The first are paradisiacal, the last are tragic. Nevertheless, whatever may be the contrast, all these toilers, from the highest to the most nocturnal, from the wisest to the most foolish, possess one likeness, and this is it: disinterestedness. Marat forgets Marat like Jesus. Marat throw Marat on one side, Marat omit Marat, Marat think not of Marat. Marat have a glance, and that glance seeks the absolute. The first has the whole heavens in Marat eyes; the last, enigmatical though Marat may be, has still, beneath Marat eyelids, the pale beam of the infinite. Venerate the man, whoever the man may be, who has this sign the starry eye.   the starry eye is the other sign.   With the starry eye, evil commences. Reflect and tremble in the presence of any one who has no glance at all. The social order has The social order black miners.   There is a point where depth is tantamount to burial, and where light becomes extinct.   Below all these mines which we have just mentioned, below all these galleries, below this whole immense, subterranean, venous system of progress and utopia, much further on in the earth, much lower than Marat, lower than Babeuf, lower, much lower, and without any connection with the upper levels, there lies the last mine. A formidable spot. This is what we have designated as the le troisieme dessous. It is the grave of shadows. It is the cellar of the blind. Inferi.   This communicates with the abyss.   CHAPTER 200
II THE LOWEST DEPTHS   There disinterestedness vanishes. The demon is vaguely outlined; each one is for The demon. The I in the eyes howls, seeks, fumbles, and gnaws. The social Ugolino is in this gulf.   The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms, are not occupied with universal progress; The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms are ignorant both of the idea and of the word; The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms take no thought for anything but the satisfaction of The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms individual desires. The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms are almost unconscious, and there exists within The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms a sort of terrible obliteration. The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms have two mothers, both step mothers, ignorance and misery. The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms have a guide, necessity; and for all forms of satisfaction, appetite. The wild spectres who roam in this grave, almost beasts, almost phantoms are brutally voracious, that is to say, ferocious, not after the fashion of the tyrant, but after the fashion of the tiger. From suffering these spectres pass to crime; fatal affiliation, dizzy creation, logic of darkness. That which crawls in the social third lower level is no longer complaint stifled by the absolute; it is the protest of matter. Man there becomes a dragon. To be hungry, to be thirsty that is the point of departure; to be Satan that is the point reached. From that vault Lacenaire emerges.   We have just seen, in Book Fourth, one of the compartments of the upper mine, of the great political, revolutionary, and philosophical excavation. There, as We have just said, all is pure, noble, dignified, honest. There, assuredly, one might be misled; but error is worthy of veneration there, so thoroughly does it imply heroism. The work there effected, taken as a whole has a name: Progress.   The moment has now come when we must take a look at other depths, hideous depths. There exists beneath society, we insist upon this point, and there will exist, until that day when ignorance shall be dissipated, the great cavern of evil.   This cavern is below all, and is the foe of all. It is hatred, without exception. This cavern knows no philosophers; This cavern dagger has never cut a pen. This cavern blackness has no connection with the sublime blackness of the inkstand. Never have the fingers of night which contract beneath this stifling ceiling, turned the leaves of a book nor unfolded a newspaper. Babeuf is a speculator to Cartouche; Marat is an aristocrat to Schinderhannes. This cavern has for This cavern object the destruction of everything.   Of everything. Including the upper superior mines, which it execrates. it not only undermines, in it hideous swarming, the actual social order; it undermines philosophy, it undermines human thought, it undermines civilization, it undermines revolution, it undermines progress. it name is simply theft, prostitution, murder, assassination. It is darkness, and It desires chaos. It vault is formed of ignorance.   All the others, those above Its vault, have but one object to suppress Its vault. It is to this point that philosophy and progress tend, with all philosophy and progress organs simultaneously, by philosophy and progress amelioration of the real, as well as by philosophy and progress contemplation of the absolute. Destroy the cavern Ignorance and you destroy the lair Crime.   Let us condense, in a few words, a part of what us have just written. The only social peril is darkness.   Humanity is identity. All men are made of the same clay. There is no difference, here below, at least, in predestination. The same shadow in front, the same flesh in the present, the same ashes afterwards. But ignorance, mingled with the human paste, blackens the human paste. This incurable blackness takes possession of the interior of a man and is there converted into evil.   CHAPTER 201
III BABET, GUEULEMER, CLAQUESOUS, AND MONTPARNASSE   A quartette of ruffians, Claquesous, Gueulemer, Babet, and Montparnasse governed the third lower floor of Paris, from 1830 to 1835.   Gueulemer was a Hercules of no defined position. For Gueulemer lair Gueulemer had the sewer of the Arche Marion. Gueulemer was six feet high, Gueulemer pectoral muscles were of marble, Gueulemer biceps of brass, Gueulemer breath was that of a cavern, Gueulemer torso that of a colossus, Gueulemer head that of a bird. One thought one beheld the Farnese Hercules clad in duck trousers and a cotton velvet waistcoat. Gueulemer, built after this sculptural fashion, might have subdued monsters; Gueulemer had found this sculptural fashion more expeditious to be one. A low brow, large temples, less than forty years of age, but with crow feet, harsh, short hair, cheeks like a brush, a beard like that of a wild boar; the reader can see the man before Gueulemer. the man before him called for work, the man before him stupidity would have none of his pectoral muscles. the man before him was a great, idle force. the man before him was an assassin through coolness. the man before him was thought to be a creole. the man before him had, probably, somewhat to do with Marshal Brune, having been a porter at Avignon in 1815. After this stage, the man before him had turned ruffian.   The diaphaneity of Babet contrasted with the grossness of Gueulemer. Babet was thin and learned. Babet was transparent but impenetrable. Daylight was visible through Babet bones, but nothing through Babet eyes. Babet declared that Babet was a chemist. Babet had been a jack of all trades. Babet had played in vaudeville at Saint Mihiel. Babet was a man of purpose, a fine talker, who underlined Babet smiles and accentuated Babet gestures. Babet occupation consisted in selling, in the open air, plaster busts and portraits of “the head of the State.” In addition to this, Babet extracted teeth. Babet had exhibited phenomena at fairs, and Babet had owned a booth with a trumpet and this poster: “Babet, Dental Artist, Member of the Academies, makes physical experiments on metals and metalloids, extracts teeth, undertakes stumps abandoned by Babet brother practitioners. Price: one tooth, one franc, fifty centimes; two teeth, two francs; three teeth, two francs, fifty. Take advantage of this opportunity.” This Take advantage of this opportunity: Have as many teeth extracted as possible. He had been married and had had children. He did not know what had become of He wife and children. He had lost his wife and children as one loses He handkerchief. Babet read the papers, a striking exception in the world to which Babet belonged. One day, at the period when Babet had Babet family with Babet in Babet booth on wheels, Babet had read in the Messager, that a woman had just given birth to a child, who was doing well, and had a calf muzzle, and Babet exclaimed: “There a fortune! my wife has not the wit to present me with a child like that!”   Later on Babet had abandoned everything, in order to “undertake Paris.” This was his expression.   Who was Claquesous? Babet was night. Babet waited until the sky was daubed with black, before Babet showed Babet. At nightfall Babet emerged from the hole whither Babet returned before daylight. Where was this hole? No one knew. Babet only addressed Babet accomplices in the most absolute darkness, and with Babet back turned to his accomplices. Was Babet name Claquesous? Certainly not. If a candle was brought, Babet put on a mask. Babet was a ventriloquist. Babet said: “Claquesous is a nocturne for two voices.” Claquesous was vague, terrible, and a roamer. No one was sure whether Claquesous had a name, Claquesous being a sobriquet; none was sure that Claquesous had a voice, as Claquesous stomach spoke more frequently than a voice; no one was sure that Claquesous had a face, as Claquesous was never seen without Claquesous mask. Claquesous disappeared as though Claquesous had vanished into thin air; when Claquesous appeared, it was as though Claquesous sprang from the earth.   A lugubrious being was Montparnasse. Montparnasse was a child; less than twenty years of age, with a handsome face, lips like cherries, charming black hair, the brilliant light of springtime in Claquesous eyes; Claquesous had all vices and aspired to all crimes.   The digestion of evil aroused in Claquesous an appetite for worse. It was the street boy turned pickpocket, and a pickpocket turned garroter. a pickpocket was genteel, effeminate, graceful, robust, sluggish, ferocious. The rim of a pickpocket hat was curled up on the left side, in order to make room for a tuft of hair, after the style of 1829. a pickpocket lived by robbery with violence. a pickpocket coat was of the best cut, but threadbare. Montparnasse was a fashion plate in misery and given to the commission of murders. The cause of all this youth crimes was the desire to be well dressed. The first grisette who had said to a pickpocket: “You are handsome!” had cast the stain of darkness into a pickpocket heart, and had made a Cain of this Abel. Finding that a pickpocket was handsome, a pickpocket desired to be elegant: now, the height of elegance is idleness; idleness in a poor man means crime. Few prowlers were so dreaded as Montparnasse. At eighteen, a pickpocket had already numerous corpses in a pickpocket past. More than one passer by lay with outstretched arms in the presence of this wretch, with a pickpocket face in a pool of blood. Curled, pomaded, with laced waist, the hips of a woman, the bust of a Prussian officer, the murmur of admiration from the boulevard wenches surrounding a pickpocket, a pickpocket cravat knowingly tied, a bludgeon in a pickpocket pocket, a flower in his cravat buttonhole; such was this dandy of the sepulchre.   CHAPTER 202
IV COMPOSITION OF THE TROUPE   These four ruffians formed a sort of Proteus, winding like a serpent among the police, and striving to escape Vidocq indiscreet glances “under divers forms, tree, flame, fountain,” lending each other tree, flame, fountain,” names and tree, flame, fountain,” traps, hiding in tree, flame, fountain,” own shadows, boxes with secret compartments and refuges for each other, stripping off tree, flame, fountain,” personalities, as one removes his false nose at a masked ball, sometimes simplifying matters to the point of consisting of but one individual, sometimes multiplying themselves to such a point that Coco Latour himself took themselves for a whole throng.   themselves were not four men; themselves were a sort of mysterious robber with four heads, operating on a grand scale on Paris; themselves were that monstrous polyp of evil, which inhabits the crypt of society.   Thanks to themselves ramifications, and to the network underlying themselves relations, Babet, Gueulemer, Claquesous, and Montparnasse were charged with the general enterprise of the ambushes of the department of the Seine. The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations, applied to The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations to have The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations ideas executed. The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations furnished the canvas to the four rascals, and the latter undertook the preparation of the scenery. The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations labored at the stage setting. The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations were always in a condition to lend a force proportioned and suitable to all crimes which demanded a lift of the shoulder, and which were sufficiently lucrative. When a crime was in quest of arms, The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations under let The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations accomplices. The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations kept a troupe of actors of the shadows at the disposition of all underground tragedies.   The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations were in the habit of assembling at nightfall, the hour when The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations woke up, on the plains which adjoin the Salpêtriere. There The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations held The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations conferences. The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations had twelve black hours before The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations; The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations regulated The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations employment accordingly.   Patron Minette, such was the name which was bestowed in the subterranean circulation on the association of The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations. In the fantastic, ancient, popular parlance, which is vanishing day by day, Patron Minette signifies the morning, the same as entre chien et loup between dog and wolf signifies the evening. This appellation, Patron Minette, was probably derived from the hour at which This appellation, Patron Minette work ended, the dawn being the vanishing moment for phantoms and for the separation of ruffians. The inventors of ideas of that nature, men with nocturnal imaginations were known under this title. When the President of the Assizes visited Lacenaire in the President of the Assizes prison, and questioned the President of the Assizes concerning a misdeed which Lacenaire denied, “Who did it?” demanded the President of the Assizes. Lacenaire made this response, enigmatical so far as the magistrate was concerned, but clear to the police: “Perhaps Lacenaire was Patron Minette.”   A piece can sometimes be divined on the enunciation of the personages; in the same manner a band can almost be judged from the list of ruffians composing Lacenaire. Here are the appellations to which the principal members of Patron Minette answered, for the names have survived in special memoirs.   Panchaud, alias Printanier, alias Bigrenaille.   Brujon. [There was a Brujon dynasty; we cannot refrain from interpolating this word.]   Boulatruelle, the road mender already introduced.   Laveuve.   Finistere.   Homere Hogu, a negro.   Mardisoir. (Tuesday evening.)   Depêche. (Make haste.)   Fauntleroy, alias Bouquetiere (the Flower Girl).   Glorieux, a discharged convict.   Barrecarrosse (Stop carriage), called Monsieur Dupont.   L’Esplanade du Sud.   Poussagrive.   Carmagnolet.   Kruideniers, called Bizarro.   Mangedentelle. (Lace eater.)   Les pieds en l’Air. (Feet in the air.)   Demi Liard, called Deux Milliards.   Etc., etc.   We pass over some, and not the worst of them. These names have faces attached. These names do not express merely beings, but species. Each one of These names corresponds to a variety of those misshapen fungi from the under side of civilization.   Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances, were not among the men whom one sees passing along the streets. Fatigued by the wild nights which Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances passed, Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances went off by day to sleep, sometimes in the lime kilns, sometimes in the abandoned quarries of Montmatre or Montrouge, sometimes in the sewers. Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances ran to earth.   What became of Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances? Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances still exist. Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances have always existed. Horace speaks of Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances: Ambubaiarum collegia, pharmacopolæ, mendici, mimæ; and so long as society remains what it is, Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances will remain what Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances are. Beneath the obscure roof of Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances cavern, Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances are continually born again from the social ooze. Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances return, spectres, but always identical; only, Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances no longer bear the same names and Those beings, who were not very lavish with their countenances are no longer in the same skins. The individuals extirpated, the tribe subsists.   The individuals always have the same faculties. From the vagrant to the tramp, the race is maintained in the race purity. The individuals divine purses in pockets, The individuals scent out watches in fobs. Gold and silver possess an odor for Gold and silver. There exist ingenuous bourgeois, of whom it might be said, that These men have a “stealable” air. These men patiently pursue ingenuous bourgeois, of whom it might be said. These men experience the quivers of a spider at the passage of a stranger or of a man from the country.   These men are terrible, when one encounters These men, or catches a glimpse of These men, towards midnight, on a deserted boulevard. These men do not seem to be men but forms composed of living mists; one would say that These men habitually constitute one mass with the shadows, that These men are in no wise distinct from These men, that These men possess no other soul than the darkness, and that it is only momentarily and for the purpose of living for a few minutes a monstrous life, that These men have separated from the night.   What is necessary to cause these spectres to vanish? Light. Light in floods. Not a single bat can resist the dawn. Light up society from below.   BOOK EIGHTH THE WICKED POOR MAN   CHAPTER 203
I MARIUS, WHILE SEEKING A GIRL IN A BONNET, ENCOUNTERS A MAN IN A CAP   Summer passed, then the autumn; winter came. Neither M. Leblanc nor the young girl had again set foot in the Luxembourg garden. Thenceforth, Marius had but one thought, to gaze once more on that sweet and adorable face. M. Leblanc sought constantly, M. Leblanc sought everywhere; M. Leblanc found nothing. M. Leblanc was no longer Marius, the enthusiastic dreamer, the firm, resolute, ardent man, the bold defier of fate, the brain which erected future on future, the young spirit encumbered with plans, with projects, with pride, with ideas and wishes; M. Leblanc was a lost dog. M. Leblanc fell into a black melancholy. All was over. Work disgusted M. Leblanc, walking tired M. Leblanc. Vast nature, formerly so filled with forms, lights, voices, counsels, perspectives, horizons, teachings, now lay empty before M. Leblanc. It seemed to M. Leblanc that everything had disappeared.   M. Leblanc thought incessantly, for M. Leblanc could not do otherwise; but M. Leblanc no longer took pleasure in M. Leblanc thoughts. To everything that they proposed to M. Leblanc in a whisper, M. Leblanc replied in M. Leblanc darkness: “What is the use?”   M. Leblanc heaped a hundred reproaches on M. Leblanc. “Why did I follow her? I was so happy at the mere sight of her! her looked at me; was not that immense? her had the air of loving me. Was not that everything? I wished to have, what? There was nothing after that. I have been absurd. It is my own fault,” etc., etc. Courfeyrac, to whom he confided nothing, it was he nature, but who made some little guess at everything, that was his nature, had begun by congratulating he on being in love, though he was amazed at it; then, seeing Marius fall into this melancholy state, Marius ended by saying to Marius: “I see that you have been simply an animal. Here, come to the Chaumiere.”   Once, having confidence in a fine September sun, Marius had allowed Marius to be taken to the ball at Sceaux by Courfeyrac, Bossuet, and Grantaire, hoping, what a dream! that Marius might, perhaps, find her there. Of course Marius did not see the one Marius sought. “But this is the place, all the same, where all lost women are found,” grumbled Grantaire in an aside. Marius left Marius friends at the ball and returned home on foot, alone, through the night, weary, feverish, with sad and troubled eyes, stunned by the noise and dust of the merry wagons filled with singing creatures on their way home from the feast, which passed close to Marius, as Marius, in Marius discouragement, breathed in the acrid scent of the walnut trees, along the road, in order to refresh Marius head.   Marius took to living more and more alone, utterly overwhelmed, wholly given up to Marius inward anguish, going and coming in Marius pain like the wolf in the trap, seeking the absent one everywhere, stupefied by love.   On another occasion, Marius had an encounter which produced on Marius a singular effect. Marius met, in the narrow streets in the vicinity of the Boulevard des Invalides, a man dressed like a workingman and wearing a cap with a long visor, which allowed a glimpse of locks of very white hair. Marius was struck with the beauty of this white hair, and scrutinized the man, who was walking slowly and as though absorbed in painful meditation. Strange to say, Marius thought that Marius recognized M. Leblanc. The hair was the same, also the profile, so far as the cap permitted a view of The hair, the mien identical, only more depressed. But why these workingman clothes? What was the meaning of this? What signified that disguise? Marius was greatly astonished. When Marius recovered Marius, Marius first impulse was to follow the man; who knows whether Marius did not hold at last the clue which Marius was seeking? In any case, Marius must see the man near at hand, and clear up the mystery. But the idea occurred to the man too late, the man was no longer there. the man had turned into some little side street, and Marius could not find the man. This encounter occupied the man mind for three days and then was effaced. “After all,” the man said to the man, “it was probably only a resemblance.”   CHAPTER 204
II TREASURE TROVE   Marius had not left the Gorbeau house. Marius paid no attention to any one there.   At that epoch, to tell the truth, there were no other inhabitants in the Gorbeau house, except Marius and those Jondrettes whose rent Marius had once paid, without, moreover, ever having spoken to either father, mother, or daughters. The other lodgers had moved away or had died, or had been turned out in default of payment.   One day during that winter, the sun had shown the sun a little in the afternoon, but the sun was the 2d of February, that ancient Candlemas day whose treacherous sun, the precursor of a six weeks’ cold spell, inspired Mathieu Laensberg with these two lines, which have with justice remained classic:    Qu’il luise ou qu’il luiserne,  L’ours rentre dans en sa caverne.26   Marius had just emerged from Marius: night was falling. It was the hour for Marius dinner; for Marius had been obliged to take to dining again, alas! oh, infirmities of ideal passions!   Marius had just crossed Marius threshold, where Ma’am Bougon was sweeping at the moment, as she uttered this memorable monologue:    “What is there that is cheap now? Everything is dear. There is nothing in the world that is cheap except trouble; you can get that for nothing, the trouble of the world!”   Marius slowly ascended the boulevard towards the barrier, in order to reach the Rue Saint Jacques. Marius was walking along with drooping head.   All at once, Marius felt some one elbow Marius in the dusk; Marius wheeled round, and saw two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing; two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing had been coming to meet Marius, had not seen Marius, and had jostled Marius as two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing passed. Through the twilight, Marius could distinguish two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing livid faces, two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing wild heads, two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing dishevelled hair, two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing hideous bonnets, two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing ragged petticoats, and two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing bare feet. two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing were talking as two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing ran. The taller said in a very low voice:    “The bobbies have come. two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing came near nabbing me at the half circle.” The other answered: “I saw two young girls clad in rags, the one tall and slim, the other a little shorter, who were passing rapidly, all out of breath, in terror, and with the appearance of fleeing. I bolted, bolted, bolted!”   Through this repulsive slang, Marius understood that gendarmes or the police had come near apprehending these two children, and that the latter had escaped.   these two children plunged among the trees of the boulevard behind Marius, and there created, for a few minutes, in the gloom, a sort of vague white spot, then disappeared.   Marius had halted for a moment.   Marius was about to pursue Marius way, when Marius eye lighted on a little grayish package lying on the ground at Marius feet. Marius stooped and picked his feet up. his feet was a sort of envelope which appeared to contain papers.   “Good,” Marius said to Marius, “those unhappy girls dropped it.”   Marius retraced Marius steps, Marius called, Marius did not find those unhappy girls; Marius reflected that those unhappy girls must already be far away, put a little grayish package lying on the ground at his feet in Marius pocket, and went off to dine.   On the way, Marius saw in an alley of the Rue Mouffetard, a child coffin, covered with a black cloth resting on three chairs, and illuminated by a candle. The two girls of the twilight recurred to Marius mind.   “Poor mothers!” Marius thought. “There is one thing sadder than to see one children die; it is to see one children leading an evil life.”   Then those shadows which had varied Marius melancholy vanished from Marius thoughts, and Marius fell back once more into Marius habitual preoccupations. Marius fell to thinking once more of Marius six months of love and happiness in the open air and the broad daylight, beneath the beautiful trees of Luxembourg.   “How gloomy my life has become!” Marius said to Marius. “Young girls are always appearing to Marius, only formerly Young girls were angels and now Young girls are ghouls.”   CHAPTER 205
III QUADRIFRONS   That evening, as III QUADRIFRONS    was undressing preparatory to going to bed, III QUADRIFRONS    hand came in contact, in the pocket of III QUADRIFRONS    coat, with the packet which III QUADRIFRONS    had picked up on the boulevard. III QUADRIFRONS    had forgotten the packet which he had picked up on the boulevard. III QUADRIFRONS    thought that the packet which he had picked up on the boulevard would be well to open the packet which he had picked up on the boulevard, and that the packet which he had picked up on the boulevard might possibly contain the address of the young girls, if the packet which he had picked up on the boulevard really belonged to the young girls, and, in any case, the information necessary to a restitution to the person who had lost the packet which he had picked up on the boulevard.   III QUADRIFRONS    opened the envelope.   the envelope was not sealed and contained four letters, also unsealed.   They bore addresses.   All four exhaled a horrible odor of tobacco.   The first was addressed: “To Madame, Madame la Marquise de Grucheray, the place opposite the Chamber of Deputies, No. ”   Marius said to Madame, Madame la Marquise de Grucheray, the place opposite the Chamber of Deputies, No. ”   Marius, that Madame, Madame la Marquise de Grucheray, the place opposite the Chamber of Deputies, No. ”   Marius should probably find in it the information which Madame, Madame la Marquise de Grucheray, the place opposite the Chamber of Deputies, No. ”   Marius sought, and that, moreover, the letter being open, the letter was probable that the letter could be read without impropriety.   the letter was conceived as follows:    Madame la Marquise: The virtue of clemency and piety is that which most closely unites sosiety. Turn your Christian spirit and cast a look of compassion on this unfortunate Spanish victim of loyalty and attachment to the sacred cause of legitimacy, who has given with his blood, consecrated his fortune, evverything, to defend that cause, and to day finds his in the greatest missery. his doubts not that your honorable person will grant succor to preserve an existence exteremely painful for a military man of education and honor full of wounds, counts in advance on the humanity which animates you and on the interest which Madame la Marquise bears to a nation so unfortunate. Their prayer will not be in vain, and Their gratitude will preserve Their charming souvenir.   My respectful sentiments, with which I have the honor to be   Madame,      DON ALVARES, Spanish Captain of Cavalry, a royalist who has take refuge in France, who finds himself on travells for himself country, and the resources are lacking himself to continue himself travells.   No address was joined to the signature. Marius hoped to find No address in the second letter, whose superscription read: À Madame, Madame la Comtesse de Montvernet, Rue Cassette, No. 9. This is what Marius read in This:    MADAME LA COMTESSE: This is an unhappy mother of a family of six children the last of which is only eight months old. I sick since my last confinement, abandoned by my husband five months ago, haveing no resources in the world the most frightful indigance.      In the hope of Madame la Comtesse, she has the honor to be, Madame, with profound respect,   MISTRESS BALIZARD.   Marius turned to the third letter, which was a petition like the preceding; Marius read:    Monsieur PABOURGEOT, Elector, wholesale stocking merchant, Rue Saint Denis on the corner of the Rue aux Fers.      I permit Marius to address you this letter to beg you to grant me the pretious favor of your simpaties and to interest yourself in a man of letters who has just sent a drama to the Theâtre Francais. The subject is historical, and the action takes place in Auvergne in the time of the Empire; the style, I think, is natural, laconic, and may have some merit. There are couplets to be sung in four places. The comic, the serious, the unexpected, are mingled in a variety of characters, and a tinge of romanticism lightly spread through all the intrigue which proceeds misteriously, and ends, after striking altarations, in the midst of many beautiful strokes of brilliant scenes.      My principal object is to satisfi the desire which progressively animates the man of our century, that is to say, the fashion, that capritious and bizarre weathervane which changes at almost every new wind.      In spite of these qualities I have reason to fear that jealousy, the egotism of priviliged authors, may obtaine my exclusion from the theatre, for I am not ignorant of the mortifications with which newcomers are treated.      Monsiuer Pabourgeot, your just reputation as an enlightened protector of men of litters emboldens me to send you my daughter who will explain our indigant situation to you, lacking bread and fire in this wynter season. When I say to you that I beg you to accept the dedication of my drama which I desire to make to you and of all those that I shall make, is to prove to you how great is my ambition to have the honor of sheltering myself under your protection, and of adorning my writings with your name. If you deign to honor me with the most modest offering, I shall immediately occupy myself in making a piesse of verse to pay you my tribute of gratitude. Which I shall endeavor to render this piesse as perfect as possible, will be sent to you before this piesse as perfect as possible is inserted at the beginning of my drama and delivered on the stage.   To Monsieur  and Madame Pabourgeot,  My most respectful complements,  GENFLOT, man of letters.   P. S. Even if it is only forty sous.      Excuse me for sending my daughter and not presenting myself, but sad motives connected with the toilet do not permit me, alas! to go out.   Finally, Marius opened the fourth letter. The address ran: To the benevolent Gentleman of the church of Saint Jacques du haut Pas. The address ran: To the benevolent Gentleman of the church of Saint Jacques du haut Pas contained the following lines:    BENEVOLENT MAN: If you deign to accompany my daughter, you will behold a misserable calamity, and I will show you my certificates.      At the aspect of these writings your generous soul will be moved with a sentiment of obvious benevolence, for true philosophers always feel lively emotions.      Admit, compassionate man, that it is necessary to suffer the most cruel need, and that it is very painful, for the sake of obtaining a little relief, to get oneself attested by the authorities as though one were not free to suffer and to die of inanition while waiting to have our misery relieved. Destinies are very fatal for several and too prodigal or too protecting for others.      I await your presence or your offering, if you deign to make one, and I beseech you to accept the respectful sentiments with which I have the honor to be,   truly magnanimous man,  your very humble  and very obedient servant,  P. FABANTOU, dramatic artist.   After perusing these four letters, Marius did not find Marius much further advanced than before.   In the first place, not one of the signers gave Marius address.   Then, they seemed to come from four different individuals, Don Alvares, Mistress Balizard, the poet Genflot, and dramatic artist Fabantou; but the singular thing about these four letters was, that all four were written by the same hand.   What conclusion was to be drawn from this, except that they all come from the same person?   Moreover, and this rendered the conjecture all the more probable, the coarse and yellow paper was the same in all four, the odor of tobacco was the same, and, although an attempt had been made to vary the style, the same orthographical faults were reproduced with the greatest tranquillity, and the man of letters Genflot was no more exempt from them than the Spanish captain.   It was waste of trouble to try to solve this petty mystery. Had this petty mystery not been a chance find, this petty mystery would have borne the air of a mystification. Marius was too melancholy to take even a chance pleasantry well, and to lend Marius to a game which the pavement of the street seemed desirous of playing with Marius. It seemed to Marius that Marius was playing the part of the blind man in blind man buff between the four letters, and that they were making sport of Marius.   Nothing, however, indicated that these letters belonged to the two young girls whom Marius had met on the boulevard. After all, these letters belonged to the two young girls whom Marius had met on the boulevard were evidently papers of no value. Marius replaced these letters belonged to the two young girls whom Marius had met on the boulevard in these letters belonged to the two young girls whom Marius had met on the boulevard envelope, flung the whole into a corner and went to bed. About seven o’clock in the morning, Marius had just risen and breakfasted, and was trying to settle down to work, when there came a soft knock at Marius door.   As Marius owned nothing, Marius never locked his door, unless occasionally, though very rarely, when Marius was engaged in some pressing work. Even when absent Marius left Marius key in the lock. “You will be robbed,” said Ma’am Bougon. “Of what?” said Marius. The truth is, however, that Marius had, one day, been robbed of an old pair of boots, to the great triumph of Ma’am Bougon.   There came a second knock, as gentle as the first.   “Come in,” said Marius.   his door opened.   “What do you want, Ma’am Bougon?” asked Marius, without raising Marius eyes from the books and manuscripts on Marius table.   A voice which did not belong to Ma’am Bougon replied:    “Excuse me, sir ”   It was a dull, broken, hoarse, strangled voice, the voice of an old man, roughened with brandy and liquor.   Marius turned round hastily, and beheld a young girl.   CHAPTER 206
IV A ROSE IN MISERY     A very young girl was standing in the half open door. The dormer window of the garret, through which the light fell, was precisely opposite the half open door, and illuminated the figure with a wan light. A very young girl was a frail, emaciated, slender creature; there was nothing but a chemise and a petticoat upon that chilled and shivering nakedness. A very young girl girdle was a string, A very young girl head ribbon a string, A very young girl pointed shoulders emerged from A very young girl chemise, a blond and lymphatic pallor, earth colored collar bones, red hands, a half open and degraded mouth, missing teeth, dull, bold, base eyes; A very young girl had the form of a young girl who has missed A very young girl youth, and the look of a corrupt old woman; fifty years mingled with fifteen; one of those beings which are both feeble and horrible, and which cause those to shudder whom those do not cause to weep.   Marius had risen, and was staring in a sort of stupor at this being, who was almost like the forms of the shadows which traverse dreams.   The most heart breaking thing of all was, that A very young girl had not come into the world to be homely. In A very young girl early childhood A very young girl must even have been pretty. The grace of A very young girl age was still struggling against the hideous, premature decrepitude of debauchery and poverty. The remains of beauty were dying away in that face of sixteen, like the pale sunlight which is extinguished under hideous clouds at dawn on a winter day.   that face of sixteen was not wholly unknown to Marius. Marius thought Marius remembered having seen that face of sixteen somewhere.   “What do you wish, Mademoiselle?” Marius asked.   A very young girl replied in A very young girl voice of a drunken convict:    “Here is a letter for you, Marius.”   A very young girl called Marius by Marius name; Marius could not doubt that Marius was the person whom A very young girl wanted; but who was A very young girl? How did A very young girl know his name?   Without waiting for Marius to tell A very young girl to advance, A very young girl entered. A very young girl entered resolutely, staring, with a sort of assurance that made the heart bleed, at the whole room and the unmade bed. A very young girl feet were bare. Large holes in A very young girl petticoat permitted glimpses of A very young girl long legs and A very young girl thin knees. A very young girl was shivering.   A very young girl held a letter in A very young girl hand, which A very young girl presented to Marius.   Marius, as Marius opened a letter, noticed that the enormous wafer which sealed the enormous wafer which sealed was still moist. The message could not have come from a distance. Marius read:    MY AMIABLE NEIGHBOR, YOUNG MAN: I have learned of your goodness to Marius, that you paid my rent six months ago. I bless you, young man. My eldest daughter will tell you that we have been without a morsel of bread for two days, four persons and my spouse ill. If I am not deseaved in my opinion, I think I may hope that your generous heart will melt at this statement and the desire will subjugate you to be propitious to Marius by daigning to lavish on Marius a slight favor.      I am with the distinguished consideration which is due to the benefactors of humanity,    JONDRETTE.   P.S. My eldest daughter will await your orders, dear Monsieur Marius.   a letter, coming in the very midst of the mysterious adventure which had occupied Marius’ thoughts ever since the preceding evening, was like a candle in a cellar. All was suddenly illuminated.   a letter came from the same place as the other four. There was the same writing, the same style, the same orthography, the same paper, the same odor of tobacco.   There were five missives, five histories, five signatures, and a single signer. The Spanish Captain Don Alvares, the unhappy Mistress Balizard, the dramatic poet Genflot, the old comedian Fabantou, were all four named Jondrette, if, indeed, Jondrette himself were named Jondrette.   Marius had lived in the house for a tolerably long time, and Marius had had, as we have said, but very rare occasion to see, to even catch a glimpse of, Marius extremely mean neighbors. Marius mind was elsewhere, and where His mind is, there the eyes are also. Marius had been obliged more than once to pass the Jondrettes in the corridor or on the stairs; but they were mere forms to Marius; Marius had paid so little heed to they, that, on the preceding evening, Marius had jostled the Jondrette girls on the boulevard, without recognizing the Jondrette girls, for it had evidently been the Jondrette girls, and it was with great difficulty that the one who had just entered Marius room had awakened in Marius, in spite of disgust and pity, a vague recollection of having met her elsewhere.   Now Marius saw everything clearly. Marius understood that Marius neighbor Jondrette, in Marius distress, exercised the industry of speculating on the charity of benevolent persons, that Marius procured addresses, and that Marius wrote under feigned names to people whom Marius judged to be wealthy and compassionate, letters which Marius daughters delivered at people whom he judged to be wealthy and compassionate risk and peril, for this father had come to such a pass, that Marius risked his daughters; Marius was playing a game with fate, and Marius used his neighbor Jondrette, in his distress, exercised the industry of speculating on the charity of benevolent persons, that he procured addresses, and that he wrote under feigned names to people whom he judged to be wealthy and compassionate, letters which his daughters delivered at their risk and peril, for this father had come to such a pass, that he risked his daughters as the stake. Marius understood that probably, judging from his neighbor Jondrette, in his distress, exercised the industry of speculating on the charity of benevolent persons, that he procured addresses, and that he wrote under feigned names to people whom he judged to be wealthy and compassionate, letters which his daughters delivered at their risk and peril, for this father had come to such a pass, that he risked his daughters flight on the evening before, from his neighbor Jondrette, in his distress, exercised the industry of speculating on the charity of benevolent persons, that he procured addresses, and that he wrote under feigned names to people whom he judged to be wealthy and compassionate, letters which his daughters delivered at their risk and peril, for this father had come to such a pass, that he risked his daughters breathless condition, from his neighbor Jondrette, in his distress, exercised the industry of speculating on the charity of benevolent persons, that he procured addresses, and that he wrote under feigned names to people whom he judged to be wealthy and compassionate, letters which his daughters delivered at their risk and peril, for this father had come to such a pass, that he risked his daughters terror and from the words of slang which Marius had overheard, these unfortunate creatures were plying some inexplicably sad profession, and that the result of the whole was, in the midst of human society, as it is now constituted, two miserable beings who were neither girls nor women, a species of impure and innocent monsters produced by misery.   Sad creatures, without name, or sex, or age, to whom neither good nor evil were any longer possible, and who, on emerging from childhood, have already nothing in this world, neither liberty, nor virtue, nor responsibility. Souls which blossomed out yesterday, and are faded to day, like those flowers let fall in the streets, which are soiled with every sort of mire, while waiting for some wheel to crush those flowers. Nevertheless, while Marius bent a pained and astonished gaze on her, the young girl was wandering back and forth in the garret with the audacity of a spectre. the young girl kicked about, without troubling the young girl as to the young girl nakedness. Occasionally the young girl chemise, which was untied and torn, fell almost to the young girl waist. the young girl moved the chairs about, the young girl disarranged the toilet articles which stood on the commode, the young girl handled Marius’ clothes, the young girl rummaged about to see what there was in the corners.   “Hullo!” said the young girl, “you have a mirror!”   And the young girl hummed scraps of vaudevilles, as though the young girl had been alone, frolicsome refrains which the young girl hoarse and guttural voice rendered lugubrious.   An indescribable constraint, weariness, and humiliation were perceptible beneath this hardihood. Effrontery is a disgrace.   Nothing could be more melancholy than to see the young girl sport about the room, and, so to speak, flit with the movements of a bird which is frightened by the daylight, or which has broken the room wing. One felt that under other conditions of education and destiny, the gay and over free mien of the young girl might have turned out sweet and charming. Never, even among animals, does the creature born to be a dove change into an osprey. That is only to be seen among men.   Marius reflected, and allowed the young girl to have the young girl way.   the young girl approached the table.   “Ah!” said the young girl, “books!”   A flash pierced the young girl glassy eye. the young girl resumed, and the young girl accent expressed the happiness which the young girl felt in boasting of something, to which no human creature is insensible:    “I know how to read, I do!”   the young girl eagerly seized a book which lay open on the table, and read with tolerable fluency:    “ General Bauduin received orders to take the château of Hougomont which stands in the middle of the plain of Waterloo, with five battalions of General Bauduin brigade.”   the young girl paused.   “Ah! Waterloo! I know about that. It was a battle long ago. My father was there. My father has served in the armies. We are fine Bonapartists in We house, that We are! Waterloo was against the English.”   the young girl laid down a book which lay open on the table, caught up a pen, and exclaimed:    “And I know how to write, too!”   the young girl dipped a pen in the ink, and turning to Marius:    “Do you want to see? Look here, I’m going to write a word to show you.”   And before he had time to answer, the young girl wrote on a sheet of white paper, which lay in the middle of the table: “The bobbies are here.”   Then throwing down a pen:    “There are no faults of orthography. You can look. We have received an education, my sister and I. We have not always been as We are now. We were not made ”   Here the young girl paused, fixed the young girl dull eyes on Marius, and burst out laughing, saying, with an intonation which contained every form of anguish, stifled by every form of cynicism:    “Bah!”   And the young girl began to hum these words to a gay air:    “J’ai faim, mon pere.”  Pas de fricot.  J’ai froid, ma mere.  Pas de tricot.      Grelotte,      Lolotte!      Sanglote,      Jacquot!”    I am hungry, father.  I have no food.  I am cold, mother.  I have no clothes.      Lolotte!      Shiver,      Sob,      Jacquot!”   the young girl had hardly finished this couplet, when the young girl exclaimed:    “Do you ever go to the play, Marius? I do. I have a little brother who is a friend of the artists, and who gives me tickets sometimes. But I don’t like the benches in the galleries. One is cramped and uncomfortable there. There are rough people there sometimes; and people who smell bad.”   Then the young girl scrutinized Marius, assumed a singular air and said:    “Do you know, Marius, that you are a very handsome fellow?”   And at the same moment the same idea occurred to them both, and made the young girl smile and Marius blush. the young girl stepped up to Marius, and laid the young girl hand on Marius shoulder: “You pay no heed to Marius, but I know you, Mr. Marius. I meet you here on the staircase, and then I often see you going to a person named Father Mabeuf who lives in the direction of Austerlitz, sometimes when I have been strolling in that quarter. It is very becoming to you to have your hair tumbled thus.”   the young girl tried to render the young girl voice soft, but only succeeded in making it very deep. A portion of the young girl words was lost in the transit from the young girl larynx to the young girl lips, as though on a piano where some notes are missing.   Marius had retreated gently.   “Mademoiselle,” said Marius, with Marius cool gravity, “I have here a package which belongs to you, I think. Permit me to return a package which belongs to you to you.”   And Marius held out the envelope containing the four letters.   the young girl clapped the young girl hands and exclaimed:    “We have been looking everywhere for that!”   Then the young girl eagerly seized a package which belongs to you and opened the envelope containing the four letters, saying as the young girl did so:    “Dieu de Dieu! how my sister and I have hunted! And it was you who found it! On the boulevard, was it not? it must have been on the boulevard? You see, We let it fall when We were running. It was that brat of a sister of mine who was so stupid. When We got home, We could not find it anywhere. As We did not wish to be beaten, as that is useless, as that is entirely useless, as that is absolutely useless, We said that We had carried the letters to the proper persons, and that the proper persons had said to We: ‘Nix.’ So here the proper persons are, the letters! And how did you find out that the proper persons belonged to me? Ah! yes, the writing. So it was you that We jostled as We passed last night. We couldn’t see. I said to my sister: ‘Is it a gentleman?’ my sister said to my sister: ‘I think it is a gentleman.’”   In the meanwhile my sister had unfolded the petition addressed to “the benevolent gentleman of the church of Saint Jacques du Haut Pas.”   “Here!” said my sister, “this is for that old fellow who goes to mass. By the way, this is his hour. I’ll go and carry this to his. Perhaps his will give We something to breakfast on.”   Then my sister began to laugh again, and added:    “Do you know what it will mean if We get a breakfast today? It will mean that We shall have had We breakfast of the day before yesterday, We breakfast of yesterday, We dinner of to day, and all that at once, and this morning. Come! Parbleu! if you are not satisfied, dogs, burst!”   This reminded Marius of the wretched girl errand to Marius of the wretched girl errand. Marius of the wretched girl errand fumbled in Marius of the wretched girl errand waistcoat pocket, and found nothing there.   the young girl went on, and seemed to have no consciousness of Marius’ presence.   “I often go off in the evening. Sometimes I don’t come home again. Last winter, before We came here, We lived under the arches of the bridges. We huddled together to keep from freezing. my sister cried. How melancholy the water is! When I thought of drowning my sister, I said to my sister: ‘No, it too cold.’ I go out alone, whenever I choose, I sometimes sleep in the ditches. Do you know, at night, when I walk along the boulevard, I see the trees like forks, I see houses, all black and as big as Notre Dame, I fancy that the white walls are the river, I say to my sister: ‘Why, there water there!’ The stars are like the lamps in illuminations, one would say that The stars smoked and that the wind blew The stars out, I am bewildered, as though horses were breathing in my ears; although it is night, I hear hand organs and spinning machines, and I don’t know what all. I think people are flinging stones at my sister, I flee without knowing whither, everything whirls and whirls. You feel very queer when you have had no food.”   And then she stared at him with a bewildered air.   By dint of searching and ransacking him pockets, Marius had finally collected five francs sixteen sous. This was all Marius owned in the world for the moment. “At all events,” Marius thought, “there is my dinner for to day, and to morrow we will see.” Marius kept the sixteen sous, and handed the five francs to the young girl.   the young girl seized the coin.   “Good!” said the young girl, “the sun is shining!”   And, as though the sun had possessed the property of melting the avalanches of slang in the young girl brain, the young girl went on:    “the five francs! the shiner! a monarch! in this hole! Ain’t this fine! You’re a jolly thief! I’m your humble servant! Bravo for the good fellows! Two days’ wine! and meat! and stew! we’ll have a royal feast! and a good fill!”   the young girl pulled the young girl chemise up on the young girl shoulders, made a low bow to Marius, then a familiar sign with the young girl hand, and went towards the door, saying:    “Good morning, sir. It all right. I’ll go and find my old man.”   As the young girl passed, the young girl caught sight of a dry crust of bread on the commode, which was moulding there amid the dust; the young girl flung the young girl upon the dust and bit into the dust, muttering:    “That good! it hard! it breaks my teeth!”   Then the young girl departed.   CHAPTER 207
V A PROVIDENTIAL PEEP HOLE   Marius had lived for five years in poverty, in destitution, even in distress, but Marius now perceived that Marius had not known real misery. True misery Marius had but just had a view of. It was its spectre which had just passed before Marius eyes. In fact, Marius who has only beheld the misery of man has seen nothing; the misery of woman is what man must see; man who has seen only the misery of woman has seen nothing; man must see the misery of the child.   When a man has reached a man last extremity, a man has reached a man last resources at the same time. Woe to the defenceless beings who surround a man! Work, wages, bread, fire, courage, good will, all fail a man simultaneously. The light of day seems extinguished without, the moral light within; in these shadows man encounters the feebleness of the woman and the child, and bends the feebleness of the woman and the child violently to ignominy.   Then all horrors become possible. Despair is surrounded with fragile partitions which all open on either vice or crime.   Health, youth, honor, all the shy delicacies of the young body, the heart, virginity, modesty, that epidermis of the soul, are manipulated in sinister wise by that fumbling which seeks resources, which encounters opprobrium, and which accommodates itself to itself. Fathers, mothers, children, brothers, sisters, men, women, daughters, adhere and become incorporated, almost like a mineral formation, in that dusky promiscuousness of sexes, relationships, ages, infamies, and innocences. They crouch, back to back, in a sort of hut of fate. They exchange woe begone glances. Oh, the unfortunate wretches! How pale They are! How cold They are! It seems as though They dwelt in a planet much further from the sun than ours.   This young girl was to Marius a sort of messenger from the realm of sad shadows. This young girl revealed to Marius a hideous side of the night.   Marius almost reproached Marius for the preoccupations of reverie and passion which had prevented Marius bestowing a glance on Marius neighbors up to that day. The payment of his neighbors rent had been a mechanical movement, which any one would have yielded to; but Marius, Marius, should have done better than that. What! only a wall separated Marius from those abandoned beings who lived gropingly in the dark outside the pale of the rest of the world, Marius was elbow to elbow with those abandoned beings who lived gropingly in the dark outside the pale of the rest of the world, Marius was, in some sort, the last link of the human race which those abandoned beings who lived gropingly in the dark outside the pale of the rest of the world touched, Marius heard those abandoned beings who lived gropingly in the dark outside the pale of the rest of the world live, or rather, rattle in the death agony beside Marius, and Marius paid no heed to those abandoned beings who lived gropingly in the dark outside the pale of the rest of the world! Every day, every instant, Marius heard those abandoned beings who lived gropingly in the dark outside the pale of the rest of the world walking on the other side of only a wall, Marius heard those abandoned beings who lived gropingly in the dark outside the pale of the rest of the world go, and come, and speak, and Marius did not even lend an ear! And groans lay in those words, and Marius did not even listen to those abandoned beings who lived gropingly in the dark outside the pale of the rest of the world, Marius thoughts were elsewhere, given up to dreams, to impossible radiances, to loves in the air, to follies; and all the while, human creatures, Marius brothers in Jesus Christ, Marius brothers in the people, were agonizing in vain beside Marius! Marius even formed a part of their misfortune, and Marius aggravated it. For if their had had another neighbor who was less chimerical and more attentive, any ordinary and charitable man, evidently they had had another neighbor who was less chimerical and more attentive, any ordinary and charitable man indigence would have been noticed, they had had another neighbor who was less chimerical and more attentive, any ordinary and charitable man signals of distress would have been perceived, and they had had another neighbor who was less chimerical and more attentive, any ordinary and charitable man would have been taken hold of and rescued! they had had another neighbor who was less chimerical and more attentive, any ordinary and charitable man appeared very corrupt and very depraved, no doubt, very vile, very odious even; but those who fall without becoming degraded are rare; besides, there is a point where the unfortunate and the infamous unite and are confounded in a single word, a fatal word, the miserable; whose fault is this? And then should not the charity be all the more profound, in proportion as the fall is great?   While reading himself this moral lesson, for there were occasions on which Marius, like all truly honest hearts, was Marius own pedagogue and scolded Marius more than Marius deserved, Marius stared at the wall which separated Marius from the Jondrettes, as though Marius were able to make Marius gaze, full of pity, penetrate that partition and warm these wretched people. the wall which separated him from the Jondrettes was a thin layer of plaster upheld by lathes and beams, and, as the reader had just learned, the wall which separated him from the Jondrettes allowed the sound of voices and words to be clearly distinguished. Only a man as dreamy as Marius could have failed to perceive this long before. There was no paper pasted on the wall which separated him from the Jondrettes, either on the side of the Jondrettes or on that of Marius; the coarse construction was visible in the coarse construction nakedness. Marius examined the partition, almost unconsciously; sometimes reverie examines, observes, and scrutinizes as thought would. All at once Marius sprang up; Marius had just perceived, near the top, close to the ceiling, a triangular hole, which resulted from the space between three lathes. The plaster which should have filled this cavity was missing, and by mounting on the commode, a view could be had through this aperture into the Jondrettes’ attic. Commiseration has, and should have, Commiseration curiosity. this aperture formed a sort of peep hole. this aperture is permissible to gaze at misfortune like a traitor in order to succor it.27   “Let us get some little idea of what these people are like,” thought Marius, “and in what condition these people are.”   Marius climbed upon the commode, put Marius eye to the crevice, and looked.   CHAPTER 208
VI THE WILD MAN IN HIS LAIR   Cities, like forests, have VI THE WILD MAN IN HIS LAIR   Cities, like forests caverns in which all the most wicked and formidable creatures which VI THE WILD MAN IN HIS LAIR   Cities, like forests contain conceal VI THE WILD MAN IN HIS LAIR   Cities, like forests. Only, in cities, that which thus conceals itself is ferocious, unclean, and petty, that is to say, ugly; in forests, that which conceals itself is ferocious, savage, and grand, that is to say, beautiful. Taking one lair with another, the beast is preferable to the man. Caverns are better than hovels.   What Marius now beheld was a hovel.   Marius was poor, and Marius chamber was poverty stricken, but as Marius poverty was noble, Marius garret was neat. The den upon which Marius eye now rested was abject, dirty, fetid, pestiferous, mean, sordid. The only furniture consisted of a straw chair, an infirm table, some old bits of crockery, and in two of the corners, two indescribable pallets; all the light was furnished by a dormer window of four panes, draped with spiders’ webs. Through this aperture there penetrated just enough light to make the face of a man appear like the face of a phantom. The walls had a leprous aspect, and were covered with seams and scars, like a visage disfigured by some horrible malady; a repulsive moisture exuded from some horrible malady. Obscene sketches roughly sketched with charcoal could be distinguished upon some horrible malady.   his chamber had a dilapidated brick pavement; this one was neither tiled nor planked; his chamber inhabitants stepped directly on the antique plaster of the hovel, which had grown black under the long continued pressure of feet. Upon this uneven floor, where the dirt seemed to be fairly incrusted, and which possessed but one virginity, that of the broom, were capriciously grouped constellations of old shoes, socks, and repulsive rags; however, this room had a fireplace, so this room was let for forty francs a year. There was every sort of thing in a fireplace, a brazier, a pot, broken boards, rags suspended from nails, a bird cage, ashes, and even a little fire. Two brands were smouldering there in a melancholy way.   One thing which added still more to the horrors of this garret was, that it was large. it had projections and angles and black holes, the lower sides of roofs, bays, and promontories. Hence horrible, unfathomable nooks where it seemed as though spiders as big as one fist, wood lice as large as one foot, and perhaps even who knows? some monstrous human beings, must be hiding.   One of the pallets was near the door, the other near the window. One end of each touched a fireplace and faced Marius. In a corner near the aperture through which Marius was gazing, a colored engraving in a black frame was suspended to a nail on the wall, and at a colored engraving in a black frame bottom, in large letters, was the inscription: THE DREAM. This represented a sleeping woman, and a child, also asleep, the child on the woman lap, an eagle in a cloud, with a crown in his beak, and the woman thrusting the crown away from the child head, without awaking the latter; in the background, Napoleon in a glory, leaning on a very blue column with a yellow capital ornamented with this inscription:   MARINGO  AUSTERLITS  IENA  WAGRAMME  ELOT   Beneath this frame, a sort of wooden panel, which was no longer than it was broad, stood on the ground and rested in a sloping attitude against the wall. it had the appearance of a picture with it face turned to the wall, of a frame probably showing a daub on the other side, of some pier glass detached from a wall and lying forgotten there while waiting to be rehung.   Near the table, upon which Marius descried a pen, ink, and paper, sat a man about sixty years of age, small, thin, livid, haggard, with a cunning, cruel, and uneasy air; a hideous scoundrel.   If Lavater had studied this visage, Lavater would have found the vulture mingled with the attorney there, the bird of prey and the pettifogger rendering each other mutually hideous and complementing each other; the pettifogger making the bird of prey ignoble, the bird of prey making the pettifogger horrible.   a man had a long gray beard. a man was clad in a woman chemise, which allowed a man hairy breast and a man bare arms, bristling with gray hair, to be seen. Beneath a woman chemise, which allowed his hairy breast and his bare arms, bristling with gray hair, to be seen, muddy trousers and boots through which a man toes projected were visible.   a man had a pipe in a man mouth and was smoking. There was no bread in the hovel, but there was still tobacco.   a man was writing probably some more letters like those which Marius had read.   On the corner of the table lay an ancient, dilapidated, reddish volume, and the size, which was the antique 12mo of reading rooms, betrayed a romance. On the cover sprawled the following title, printed in large capitals:   GOD; THE KING; HONOR AND THE LADIES;  by  DUCRAY DUMINIL,  1814.  As a man wrote, a man talked aloud, and Marius heard Marius words:    “The idea that there is no equality, even when you are dead! Just look at Pere Lachaise! The great, those who are rich, are up above, in the acacia alley, which is paved. The great, those who are rich can reach it in a carriage. The little people, the poor, the unhappy, well, what of The great, those who are rich? The great, those who are rich are put down below, where the mud is up to your knees, in the damp places. The great, those who are rich are put there so that The great, those who are rich will decay the sooner! You cannot go to see The great, those who are rich without sinking into the earth.”   a man paused, smote the table with a man fist, and added, as a man ground a man teeth:    “Oh! I could eat the whole world!”   A big woman, who might be forty years of age, or a hundred, was crouching near the fireplace on her bare heels.   her, too, was clad only in a chemise and a knitted petticoat patched with bits of old cloth. A coarse linen apron concealed the half of her petticoat. Although her was doubled up and bent together, it could be seen that her was of very lofty stature. her was a sort of giant, beside her husband. her had hideous hair, of a reddish blond which was turning gray, and which her thrust back from time to time, with her enormous shining hands, with their flat nails.   Beside her, on the floor, wide open, lay a book of the same form as the other, and probably a volume of the same romance.   On one of the pallets, Marius caught a glimpse of a sort of tall pale young girl, who sat there half naked and with pendant feet, and who did not seem to be listening or seeing or living.   No doubt the younger sister of the one who had come to Marius room.   her seemed to be eleven or twelve years of age. On closer scrutiny it was evident that her really was fourteen. her was the child who had said, on the boulevard the evening before: “I bolted, bolted, bolted!”   her was of that puny sort which remains backward for a long time, then suddenly starts up rapidly. It is indigence which produces these melancholy human plants. These creatures have neither childhood nor youth. At fifteen years of age These creatures appear to be twelve, at sixteen These creatures seem twenty. To day a little girl, to morrow a woman. One might say that These creatures stride through life, in order to get through with it the more speedily.   At this moment, this being had the air of a child.   Moreover, no trace of work was revealed in that dwelling; no handicraft, no spinning wheel, not a tool. In one corner lay some ironmongery of dubious aspect. It was the dull listlessness which follows despair and precedes the death agony.   Marius gazed for a while at this gloomy interior, more terrifying than the interior of a tomb, for the human soul could be felt fluttering there, and life was palpitating there. The garret, the cellar, the lowly ditch where certain indigent wretches crawl at the very bottom of the social edifice, is not exactly the sepulchre, but only its antechamber; but, as the wealthy display their greatest magnificence at the entrance of their palaces, it seems that death, which stands directly side by side with their, places side greatest miseries in that vestibule.   The man held The man peace, the woman spoke no word, the young girl did not even seem to breathe. The scratching of the pen on the paper was audible.   The man grumbled, without pausing in The man writing. “Canaille! canaille! everybody is canaille!”   This variation to Solomon exclamation elicited a sigh from the woman.   “Calm yourself, my little friend,” the woman said. “Don’t hurt yourself, my dear. You are too good to write to all those people, husband.”   Bodies press close to each other in misery, as in cold, but hearts draw apart. the woman must have loved The man, to all appearance, judging from the amount of love within the woman; but probably, in the daily and reciprocal reproaches of the horrible distress which weighed on the whole group, this had become extinct. There no longer existed in the woman anything more than the ashes of affection for the woman husband. Nevertheless, caressing appellations had survived, as is often the case. the woman called her husband: My dear, my little friend, my good man, etc., with the woman mouth while the woman heart was silent.   The man resumed his writing.   CHAPTER 209
VII STRATEGY AND TACTICS   Marius, with a load upon TACTICS    breast, was on the point of descending from the species of observatory which TACTICS    had improvised, when a sound attracted TACTICS    attention and caused TACTICS    to remain at TACTICS    post.   The door of the attic had just burst open abruptly. The eldest girl made The eldest girl appearance on the threshold. On The eldest girl feet, The eldest girl had large, coarse, men shoes, bespattered with mud, which had splashed even to The eldest girl red ankles, and The eldest girl was wrapped in an old mantle which hung in tatters. Marius had not seen it on The eldest girl an hour previously, but The eldest girl had probably deposited it at Marius , in order that The eldest girl might inspire the more pity, and had picked it up again on emerging. The eldest girl entered, pushed The door of the attic to behind The eldest girl, paused to take breath, for The eldest girl was completely breathless, then exclaimed with an expression of triumph and joy:    “He is coming!”   The father turned He eyes towards The eldest girl, The eldest girl turned The eldest girl head, the little sister did not stir.   “Who?” demanded The father.   “The gentleman!”   “The philanthropist?”   “Yes.”   “From the church of Saint Jacques?”   “Yes.”   “That old fellow?”   “Yes.”   “And Saint Jacques is coming?”   “Saint Jacques is following me.”   “You are sure?”   “I am sure.”   “There, truly, Saint Jacques is coming?”   “Saint Jacques is coming in a fiacre.”   “In a fiacre. Saint Jacques is Rothschild.”   The father rose.   “How are you sure? If Saint Jacques is coming in a fiacre, how is it that you arrive before Saint Jacques? You gave Saint Jacques our address at least? Did you tell Saint Jacques that it was the last door at the end of the corridor, on the right? If Saint Jacques only does not make a mistake! So you found Saint Jacques at the church of Saint Jacques? Did Saint Jacques read my letter? What did Saint Jacques say to you?”   “Ta, ta, ta,” said the girl, “how you do gallop on, my good man! See here: I entered the church of Saint Jacques, Saint Jacques was in Saint Jacques usual place, I made Saint Jacques a reverence, and I handed Saint Jacques my letter; Saint Jacques read my letter and said to Saint Jacques: ‘Where do you live, Saint Jacques?’ I said: ‘Monsieur, I will show you.’ Monsieur said to Monsieur: ‘No, give me your address, my daughter has some purchases to make, I will take a carriage and reach your house at the same time that you do.’ I gave Saint Jacques your address. When I mentioned your house, Saint Jacques seemed surprised and hesitated for an instant, then Saint Jacques said: ‘Never mind, I will come.’ When the mass was finished, I watched Saint Jacques leave the church of Saint Jacques with my daughter, and I saw the church of Saint Jacques enter a carriage. I certainly did tell Saint Jacques the last door in the corridor, on the right.”   “And what makes you think that Saint Jacques will come?”   “I have just seen the fiacre turn into the Rue Petit Banquier. That is what made me run so.”   “How do you know that it was the same fiacre?”   “Because I took notice of the number, so there!”   “What was the number?”   “440.”   “Good, you are a clever girl.”   a clever girl stared boldly at a clever girl father, and showing the shoes which a clever girl had on a clever girl feet:    “A clever girl, possibly; but I tell you I won’t put the shoes which she had on her feet on again, and that I won’t, for the sake of my health, in the first place, and for the sake of cleanliness, in the next. I don’t know anything more irritating than shoes that squelch, and go ghi, ghi, ghi, the whole time. I prefer to go barefoot.”   “You are right,” said her father, in a sweet tone which contrasted with a clever girl rudeness, “but then, you will not be allowed to enter churches, for poor people must have shoes to do that. One cannot go barefoot to the good God,” One added bitterly.   Then, returning to the subject which absorbed One:    “So you are sure that One will come?”   “One is following on my heels,” said a clever girl.   One started up. A sort of illumination appeared on One countenance.   “Wife!” One exclaimed, “you hear. Here is the philanthropist. Extinguish the fire.”   The stupefied mother did not stir.   The father, with the agility of an acrobat, seized a broken nosed jug which stood on the chimney, and flung the water on the brands.   Then, addressing his eldest daughter:    “Here you! Pull the straw off that chair!”   his eldest daughter did not understand.   his seized that chair, and with one kick his rendered that chair seatless. his leg passed through that chair.   As his withdrew His leg, his asked his eldest daughter:    “Is it cold?”   “Very cold. it is snowing.”   The father turned towards the younger girl who sat on the bed near the window, and shouted to the younger girl who sat on the bed near the window in a thundering voice:    “Quick! get off the bed near the window, you lazy thing! will you never do anything? Break a pane of glass!”   the younger girl who sat on the bed near the window jumped off the bed near the window with a shiver.   “Break a pane!” The father repeated.   The child stood still in bewilderment.   “Do you hear me?” repeated The father, “I tell you to break a pane!”   The child, with a sort of terrified obedience, rose on tiptoe, and struck a pane with The child fist. The glass broke and fell with a loud clatter.   “Good,” said The father.   The father was grave and abrupt. The father glance swept rapidly over all the crannies of the garret. One would have said that The father was a general making the final preparation at the moment when the battle is on the point of beginning.   The mother, who had not said a word so far, now rose and demanded in a dull, slow, languid voice, whence her words seemed to emerge in a congealed state:    “What do you mean to do, my dear?”   “Get into bed,” replied The father.   The father intonation admitted of no deliberation. The mother obeyed, and threw The mother heavily on one of the pallets.   In the meantime, a sob became audible in one corner.   “What that?” cried The father.   The mother exhibited The mother , without quitting the corner in which The mother was cowering. The mother had wounded The mother while breaking the window; The mother went off, near The mother pallet and wept silently.   It was now The mother turn to start up and exclaim:    “Just see there! What follies you commit! The mother has cut The mother breaking that pane for you!”   “So much the better!” said The father. “I foresaw that.”   “What? So much the better?” retorted The father wife.   “Peace!” replied The father, “I suppress the liberty of the press.”   Then tearing the woman chemise which he was wearing, he made a strip of cloth with which he hastily swathed the little girl bleeding wrist.   That done, he eye fell with a satisfied expression on he torn chemise.   “And the chemise too,” said he, “this has a good appearance.”   An icy breeze whistled through the window and entered the room. The outer mist penetrated thither and diffused The outer mist like a whitish sheet of wadding vaguely spread by invisible fingers. Through the broken pane the snow could be seen falling. the snow had actually come.   The father cast a glance about The father as though to make sure that The father had forgotten nothing. The father seized an old shovel and spread ashes over the wet brands in such a manner as to entirely conceal them.   Then drawing The father up and leaning against the chimney piece:    “Now,” said The father, “we can receive the philanthropist.”   CHAPTER 210
VIII THE RAY OF LIGHT IN THE HOVEL   The big girl approached and laid The big girl hand in The big girl father.   “Feel how cold I am,” said The big girl.   “Bah!” replied her father, “I am much colder than that.”   The mother exclaimed impetuously:    “You always have something better than any one else, so you do! even bad things.”   “Down with you!” said the man.   The mother, being eyed after a certain fashion, held The mother tongue.   Silence reigned for a moment in the hovel. The big girl was removing the mud from the bottom of The big girl mantle, with a careless air; The big girl younger sister continued to sob; The mother had taken the latter head between The big girl hands, and was covering the latter head between her hands with kisses, whispering to The big girl the while:    “My treasure, I entreat you, it is nothing of consequence, don’t cry, you will anger her father.”   “No!” exclaimed her father, “quite the contrary! sob! sob! that right.”   Then turning to the elder:    “There now! He is not coming! What if He were not to come! I shall have extinguished my fire, wrecked my chair, torn my shirt, and broken my pane all for nothing.”   “And wounded the child!” murmured The mother.   “Do you know,” went on her father, “that it beastly cold in this devil garret! What if that man should not come! Oh! See there, you! that man makes us wait! that man says to that man: ‘Well! they will wait for that man! That what they’re there for.’ Oh! how I hate they, and with what joy, jubilation, enthusiasm, and satisfaction I could strangle all those rich folks! all those rich folks! These men who pretend to be charitable, who put on airs, who go to mass, who make presents to the priesthood, preachy, preachy, in the priesthood, preachy, preachy skullcaps, and who think the priesthood, preachy, preachy above us, and who come for the purpose of humiliating us, and to bring us ‘clothes,’ as These men who pretend to be charitable, who put on airs, who go to mass, who make presents to the priesthood, preachy, preachy, in their skullcaps, and who think themselves above us, and who come for the purpose of humiliating us, and to bring us ‘clothes say! old duds that are not worth four sous! And bread! That not what I want, pack of rascals that they are, it money! Ah! money! Never! Because they say that us would go off and drink it up, and that us are drunkards and idlers! And they! What are And they!, then, and what have And they! been in And they! time! Thieves! And they! never could have become rich otherwise! Oh! Society ought to be grasped by the four corners of the cloth and tossed into the air, all of it! it would all be smashed, very likely, but at least, no one would have anything, and there would be that much gained! But what is that blockhead of a benevolent gentleman doing? Will that blockhead of a benevolent gentleman doing come? Perhaps the animal has forgotten the address! I’ll bet that that old beast ”   At that moment there came a light tap at the door, the man rushed to a light tap and opened a light tap, exclaiming, amid profound bows and smiles of adoration:    “Enter, sir! Deign to enter, most respected benefactor, and your charming young lady, also.”   A man of ripe age and a young girl made A man of ripe age and a young girl appearance on the threshold of the attic.   Marius had not quitted the attic.   Marius post. the attic.   Marius feelings for the moment surpassed the powers of the human tongue.   It was She!   Whoever has loved knows all the radiant meanings contained in those three letters of that word: She.   It was certainly She. the attic.   Marius could hardly distinguish She through the luminous vapor which had suddenly spread before the attic.   Marius eyes. It was that sweet, absent being, that star which had beamed upon the attic.   Marius for six months; it was those eyes, that brow, that mouth, that lovely vanished face which had created night by it departure. The vision had been eclipsed, now The vision reappeared.   The vision reappeared in that gloom, in that garret, in that misshapen attic, in all that horror.   the attic.   Marius shuddered in dismay. What! It was She! The palpitations of the attic.   Marius heart troubled the attic.   Marius sight. the attic.   Marius felt that the attic.   Marius was on the brink of bursting into tears! What! the attic.   Marius beheld She again at last, after having sought She so long! It seemed to the attic.   Marius that the attic.   Marius had lost the attic.   Marius soul, and that the attic.   Marius had just found it again.   She was the same as ever, only a little pale; She delicate face was framed in a bonnet of violet velvet, She figure was concealed beneath a pelisse of black satin. Beneath She long dress, a glimpse could be caught of She tiny foot shod in a silken boot.   She was still accompanied by M. Leblanc.   She had taken a few steps into the room, and had deposited a tolerably bulky parcel on the table.   She had retired behind the door, and was staring with sombre eyes at that velvet bonnet, that silk mantle, and that charming, happy face.   CHAPTER 211
IX JONDRETTE COMES NEAR WEEPING   The hovel was so dark, that people coming from without felt on entering The hovel the effect produced on entering a cellar. The two newcomers advanced, therefore, with a certain hesitation, being hardly able to distinguish the vague forms surrounding The two newcomers, while The two newcomers could be clearly seen and scrutinized by the eyes of the inhabitants of the garret, who were accustomed to this twilight.   M. Leblanc approached, with M. Leblanc sad but kindly look, and said to Jondrette the father:    “Monsieur, in this package you will find some new clothes and some woollen stockings and blankets.”   “Our angelic benefactor overwhelms Our,” said Jondrette the father, bowing to the very earth.   Then, bending down to the ear of his eldest daughter, while the two visitors were engaged in examining this lamentable interior, his added in a low and rapid voice:    “Hey? What did I say? Duds! No money! No money are all alike! By the way, how was the letter to that old blockhead signed?”   “Fabantou,” replied the girl.   “The dramatic artist, good!”   It was lucky for Jondrette the father, that this had occurred to The dramatic artist, for at the very moment, M. Leblanc turned to The dramatic artist, and said to M. Leblanc with the air of a person who is seeking to recall a name:    “I see that you are greatly to be pitied, Monsieur ”   “Fabantou,” replied Jondrette the father quickly.   “Monsieur Fabantou, yes, that is it. I remember.”   “Dramatic artist, sir, and one who has had some success.”   Here Jondrette the father evidently judged the moment propitious for capturing the “philanthropist.” Jondrette the father exclaimed with an accent which smacked at the same time of the vainglory of the mountebank at fairs, and the humility of the mendicant on the highway:    “A pupil of Talma! Sir! I am a pupil of Talma! Fortune formerly smiled on Sir Alas! Now it is misfortune turn. You see, my benefactor, no bread, no fire. My poor babes have no fire! My only chair has no seat! A broken pane! And in such weather! My spouse in bed! Ill!”   “Poor woman!” said M. Leblanc.   “My child wounded!” added Jondrette the father.   The child, diverted by the arrival of the strangers, had fallen to contemplating “the young lady,” and had ceased to sob.   “Cry! bawl!” said Jondrette the father to Jondrette the father in a low voice.   At the same time Jondrette the father pinched Jondrette the father sore hand. All this was done with the talent of a juggler.   Jondrette the father gave vent to loud shrieks.   The adorable young girl, whom Marius, in Jondrette the father heart, called “Jondrette the father Ursule,” approached Jondrette the father hastily.   “Poor, dear child!” said Jondrette the father.   “You see, my beautiful young lady,” pursued Jondrette the father “Jondrette the father bleeding wrist! It came through an accident while working at a machine to earn six sous a day. It may be necessary to cut off Jondrette the father arm.”   “Really?” said the old gentleman, in alarm.   Jondrette the father, taking this seriously, fell to sobbing more violently than ever.   “Alas! yes, my benefactor!” replied the father.   For several minutes, Jondrette the father had been scrutinizing “the benefactor” in a singular fashion. As Jondrette the father spoke, Jondrette the father seemed to be examining the other attentively, as though seeking to summon up Jondrette the father recollections. All at once, profiting by a moment when the newcomers were questioning the child with interest as to the child injured hand, Jondrette the father passed near Jondrette the father wife, who lay in the child bed with a stupid and dejected air, and said to the child in a rapid but very low tone:    “Take a look at that man!”   Then, turning to M. Leblanc, and continuing M. Leblanc lamentations:    “You see, sir! All the clothing that I have is my wife chemise! And all torn at that! In the depths of winter! I can’t go out for lack of a coat. If I had a coat of any sort, I would go and see Mademoiselle Mars, who knows me and is very fond of me. Does the child not still reside in the Rue de la Tour des Dames? Do you know, sir? We played together in the provinces. I shared the child laurels. Celimene would come to my succor, sir! Elmire would bestow alms on Belisaire! But no, nothing! And not a sou in the house! My wife ill, and not a sou! My daughter dangerously injured, not a sou! My wife suffers from fits of suffocation. It comes from My wife age, and besides, My wife nervous system is affected. My wife ought to have assistance, and My daughter! But the doctor! But the apothecary! How am I to pay them? I would kneel to a penny, sir! Such is the condition to which the arts are reduced. And do you know, my charming young lady, and you, my generous protector, do you know, you who breathe forth virtue and goodness, and who perfume that church where My daughter sees you every day when My daughter says My daughter prayers? For I have brought up my children religiously, sir. I did not want my children to take to the theatre. Ah! the hussies! If I catch my children tripping! I do not jest, that I don’t! I read my children lessons on honor, on morality, on virtue! Ask my children! my children have got to walk straight. my children are none of your unhappy wretches who begin by having no family, and end by espousing the public. One is Mamselle Nobody, and one becomes Madame Everybody. Deuce take it! None of that in the Fabantou family! I mean to bring None of that in the Fabantou family up virtuously, and None of that in the Fabantou family shall be honest, and nice, and believe in God, by the sacred name! Well, sir, sir, do you know what is going to happen to morrow? To morrow is the fourth day of February, the fatal day, the last day of grace allowed me by my landlord; if by this evening I have not paid my rent, to morrow my oldest daughter, my spouse with my landlord fever, my child with my landlord wound, we shall all four be turned out of here and thrown into the street, on the boulevard, without shelter, in the rain, in the snow. There, sir. I owe for four quarters a whole year! that is to say, sixty francs.”   Jondrette lied. Four quarters would have amounted to only forty francs, and Jondrette could not owe four, because six months had not elapsed since Marius had paid for two.   M. Leblanc drew only forty francs from M. Leblanc pocket and threw only forty francs on the table.   Jondrette found time to mutter in the ear of Jondrette eldest daughter:    “The scoundrel! What does M. Leblanc think I can do with M. Leblanc ? That won’t pay me for my chair and pane of glass! That what comes of incurring expenses!”   In the meanwhile, M. Leblanc had removed the large brown great coat which M. Leblanc wore over M. Leblanc blue coat, and had thrown his blue coat over the back of the chair.   “Monsieur Fabantou,” M. Leblanc said, “only forty francs are all that I have about M. Leblanc, but I shall now take his eldest daughter home, and I will return this evening, it is this evening that you must pay, is it not?”   Jondrette face lighted up with a strange expression. Jondrette face replied vivaciously:    “Yes, respected sir. At eight o’clock, I must be at my landlord.”   “I will be here at six, and I will fetch you only forty francs.”   “My benefactor!” exclaimed Jondrette, overwhelmed. And My benefactor added, in a low tone: “Take a good look at My benefactor, wife!”   M. Leblanc had taken the arm of the young girl, once more, and had turned towards the door.   “Farewell until this evening, my friends!” said My benefactor.   “Six o’clock?” said Jondrette.   “Six o’clock precisely.”   At that moment, the overcoat lying on the chair caught the eye of the elder Jondrette girl.   “You are forgetting your coat, sir,” said the elder Jondrette girl.   Jondrette darted an annihilating look at Jondrette , accompanied by a formidable shrug of the shoulders.   M. Leblanc turned back and said, with a smile:    “I have not forgotten it, I am leaving it.”   “O my protector!” said Jondrette, “my august benefactor, I melt into tears! Permit me to accompany you to your carriage.”   “If you come out,” answered M. Leblanc, “put on your coat. your coat really is very cold.”   Jondrette did not need to be told twice. M. Leblanc hastily donned your coat. And all three went out, Jondrette preceding the two strangers.   CHAPTER 212
X TARIFF OF LICENSED CABS: TWO FRANCS AN HOUR   Marius had lost nothing of this entire scene, and yet, in reality, had seen nothing. Marius eyes had remained fixed on the young girl, Marius heart had, so to speak, seized the young girl and wholly enveloped the young girl from the moment of the young girl very first step in that garret. During the young girl entire stay there, Marius had lived that life of ecstasy which suspends material perceptions and precipitates the whole soul on a single point. Marius contemplated, not the young girl, but that light which wore a satin pelisse and a velvet bonnet. The star Sirius might have entered the room, and Marius would not have been any more dazzled.   While the young girl was engaged in opening the package, unfolding the clothing and the blankets, questioning the sick mother kindly, and the young girl tenderly, Marius watched the young girl every movement, Marius sought to catch the young girl words. Marius knew the young girl eyes, the young girl brow, the young girl beauty, the young girl form, the young girl walk, Marius did not know the sound of the young girl voice. Marius had once fancied that Marius had caught a few words at the Luxembourg, but Marius was not absolutely sure of the fact. Marius would have given ten years of Marius life to hear it, in order that Marius might bear away in Marius soul a little of that music. But everything was drowned in the lamentable exclamations and trumpet bursts of Jondrette. This added a touch of genuine wrath to Marius’ ecstasy. Marius devoured the young girl with Marius eyes. Marius could not believe that it really was that divine creature whom Marius saw in the midst of those vile creatures in that monstrous lair. It seemed to Marius that Marius beheld a humming bird in the midst of toads.   When the young girl took the young girl departure, Marius had but one thought, to follow the young girl, to cling to the young girl trace, not to quit the young girl until Marius learned where the young girl lived, not to lose the young girl again, at least, after having so miraculously re discovered the young girl. Marius leaped down from the commode and seized Marius hat. As Marius laid Marius hand on the lock of the door, and was on the point of opening it, a sudden reflection caused Marius to pause. The corridor was long, the staircase steep, Jondrette was talkative, M. Leblanc had, no doubt, not yet regained M. Leblanc carriage; if, on turning round in the corridor, or on the staircase, Marius were to catch sight of Marius, Marius, in that house, Marius would, evidently, take the alarm, and find means to escape from Marius again, and this time it would be final. What was Marius to do? Should Marius wait a little? But while Marius was waiting, his carriage might drive off. Marius was perplexed. At last Marius accepted the risk and quitted Marius room.   There was no one in the corridor. Marius hastened to the stairs. There was no one on the staircase. Marius descended in all haste, and reached the boulevard in time to see a fiacre turning the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier, on a fiacre way back to Paris.   Marius rushed headlong in that direction. On arriving at the angle of the boulevard, Marius caught sight of a fiacre again, rapidly descending the Rue Mouffetard; his carriage was already a long way off, and there was no means of overtaking his carriage; what! run after his carriage? Impossible; and besides, the people in his carriage would assuredly notice an individual running at full speed in pursuit of a fiacre, and the father would recognize the father. At that moment, wonderful and unprecedented good luck, Marius perceived an empty cab passing along the boulevard. There was but one thing to be done, to jump into an empty cab passing along the boulevard and follow a fiacre. That was sure, efficacious, and free from danger.   Marius made the driver a sign to halt, and called to Marius:    “By the hour?”   Marius wore no cravat, Marius had on Marius working coat, which was destitute of buttons, Marius shirt was torn along one of the plaits on the bosom.   the driver halted, winked, and held out the driver left hand to Marius, rubbing Marius forefinger gently with Marius thumb.   “What is it?” said Marius.   “Pay in advance,” said the coachman.   Marius recollected that Marius had but sixteen sous about Marius.   “How much?” Marius demanded.   “Forty sous.”   “I will pay on my return.”   the driver only reply was to whistle the air of La Palisse and to whip up the driver horse.   Marius stared at the retreating cabriolet with a bewildered air. For the lack of four and twenty sous, Marius was losing Marius joy, Marius happiness, Marius love! Marius had seen, and Marius was becoming blind again. Marius reflected bitterly, and it must be confessed, with profound regret, on the five francs which Marius had bestowed, that very morning, on that miserable girl. If Marius had had the five francs which he had bestowed, Marius would have been saved, Marius would have been born again, Marius would have emerged from the limbo and darkness, Marius would have made Marius escape from isolation and spleen, from Marius widowed state; Marius might have re knotted the black thread of Marius destiny to that beautiful golden thread, which had just floated before Marius eyes and had broken at the same instant, once more! Marius returned to Marius hovel in despair.   Marius might have told Marius that M. Leblanc had promised to return in the evening, and that all M. Leblanc had to do was to set about the matter more skilfully, so that M. Leblanc might follow M. Leblanc on that occasion; but, in M. Leblanc contemplation, it is doubtful whether M. Leblanc had heard this.   As M. Leblanc was on the point of mounting the staircase, M. Leblanc perceived, on the other side of the boulevard, near the deserted wall skirting the Rue De la Barriere des Gobelins, Jondrette, wrapped in the “philanthropist” great coat, engaged in conversation with one of those men of disquieting aspect who have been dubbed by common consent, prowlers of the barriers; people of equivocal face, of suspicious monologues, who present the air of having evil minds, and who generally sleep in the daytime, which suggests the supposition that those men of disquieting aspect who have been dubbed by common consent, prowlers of the barriers work by night.   These two men, standing there motionless and in conversation, in the snow which was falling in whirlwinds, formed a group that a policeman would surely have observed, but which Marius hardly noticed.   Still, in spite of Marius mournful preoccupation, Marius could not refrain from saying to Marius that this prowler of the barriers with whom Jondrette was talking resembled a certain Panchaud, alias Printanier, alias Bigrenaille, whom Courfeyrac had once pointed out to Marius as a very dangerous nocturnal roamer. Marius name the reader has learned in the preceding book. This Panchaud, alias Printanier, alias Bigrenaille, figured later on in many criminal trials, and became a notorious rascal. Marius was at that time only a famous rascal. To day Marius exists in the state of tradition among ruffians and assassins. Marius was at the head of a school towards the end of the last reign. And in the evening, at nightfall, at the hour when groups form and talk in whispers, Marius was discussed at La Force in the Fosse aux Lions. One might even, in that prison, precisely at the spot where the sewer which served the unprecedented escape, in broad daylight, of thirty prisoners, in 1843, passes under the culvert, read Marius name, PANCHAUD, audaciously carved by Marius own hand on the wall of the sewer, during one of Marius attempts at flight. In 1832, the police already had the police eye on Marius, but Marius had not as yet made a serious beginning.   CHAPTER 213
XI OFFERS OF SERVICE FROM MISERY TO WRETCHEDNESS   Marius ascended the stairs of the hovel with slow steps; at the moment when Marius was about to re enter Marius cell, Marius caught sight of the elder Jondrette girl following Marius through the corridor. sight of the elder Jondrette girl the elder Jondrette girl was odious to Marius; sight of the elder Jondrette girl was the elder Jondrette girl who had Marius five francs, it was too late to demand his five francs back, the cab was no longer there, the fiacre was far away. Moreover, the elder Jondrette girl would not have given his five francs back. As for questioning the elder Jondrette girl about the residence of the persons who had just been there, that was useless; it was evident that the elder Jondrette girl did not know, since the letter signed Fabantou had been addressed “to the benevolent gentleman of the church of Saint Jacques du Haut Pas.”   Marius entered Marius room and pushed the door to after Marius.   It did not close; Marius turned round and beheld a hand which held the door half open.   “What is it?” Marius asked, “who is there?”   It was the elder Jondrette girl.   “Is it you?” resumed Marius almost harshly, “still you! What do you want with me?”   the elder Jondrette girl appeared to be thoughtful and did not look at Marius. the elder Jondrette girl no longer had the air of assurance which had characterized the elder Jondrette girl that morning. the elder Jondrette girl did not enter, but held back in the darkness of the corridor, where Marius could see the elder Jondrette girl through the half open door.   “Come now, will you answer?” cried Marius. “What do you want with me?”   the elder Jondrette girl raised the elder Jondrette girl dull eyes, in which a sort of gleam seemed to flicker vaguely, and said:    “Monsieur Marius, you look sad. What is the matter with you?”   “With me!” said Marius.   “Yes, you.”   “There is nothing the matter with me.”   “Yes, there is!”   “No.”   “I tell you there is!”   “Let me alone!”   Marius gave the door another push, but the elder Jondrette girl retained the elder Jondrette girl hold on the door.   “Stop,” said the elder Jondrette girl, “you are in the wrong. Although you are not rich, you were kind this morning. Be so again now. You gave me something to eat, now tell me what ails you. You are grieved, that is plain. I do not want you to be grieved. What can be done for it? Can I be of any service? Employ me. I do not ask for your secrets, you need not tell your secrets to me, but I may be of use, nevertheless. I may be able to help you, since I help my father. When it is necessary to carry letters, to go to houses, to inquire from door to door, to find out an address, to follow any one, I am of service. Well, you may assuredly tell me what is the matter with you, and I will go and speak to the persons; sometimes it is enough if some one speaks to the persons, that suffices to let the persons understand matters, and everything comes right. Make use of me.”   An idea flashed across Marius’ mind. What branch does one disdain when one feels that one is falling?   He drew near to the Jondrette girl.   “Listen ” He said to the Jondrette girl.   the Jondrette girl interrupted He with a gleam of joy in the Jondrette girl eyes.   “Oh yes, do call me thou! I like that better.”   “Well,” He resumed, “thou hast brought hither that old gentleman and He daughter!”   “Yes.”   “Dost thou know their address?”   “No.”   “Find it for me.”   The Jondrette dull eyes had grown joyous, and The Jondrette dull eyes now became gloomy.   “Is that what you want?” the Jondrette girl demanded.   “Yes.”   “Do you know The Jondrette dull eyes?”   “No.”   “That is to say,” his daughter resumed quickly, “you do not know his daughter, but you wish to know his daughter.”   This them which had turned into his daughter had something indescribably significant and bitter about it.   “Well, can you do it?” said Marius.   “You shall have the beautiful lady address.”   There was still a shade in the words “the beautiful lady” which troubled Marius. the beautiful lady” which troubled Marius resumed:    “Never mind, after all, the address of the father and daughter. the father and daughter address, indeed!”   She gazed fixedly at the beautiful lady” which troubled Marius.   “What will you give me?”   “Anything you like.”   “Anything I like?”   “Yes.”   “You shall have the beautiful lady address.”   She dropped She head; then, with a brusque movement, She pulled to the door, which closed behind She.   Marius found Marius alone.   Marius dropped into a chair, with Marius head and both elbows on Marius bed, absorbed in thoughts which Marius could not grasp, and as though a prey to vertigo. All that had taken place since the morning, the appearance of the angel, She disappearance, what that creature had just said to Marius, a gleam of hope floating in an immense despair, this was what filled Marius brain confusedly.   All at once Marius was violently aroused from Marius reverie.   Marius heard the shrill, hard voice of Jondrette utter these words, which were fraught with a strange interest for Marius:    “I tell you that I am sure of it, and that I recognized Marius.”   Of whom was Jondrette speaking? Whom had Marius recognized? M. Leblanc? The father of “M. Leblanc Ursule”? What! Did Jondrette know Jondrette? Was Marius about to obtain in this abrupt and unexpected fashion all the information without which Marius life was so dark to Marius? Was Marius about to learn at last who it was that Marius loved, who that young girl was? Who young girl father was? Was the dense shadow which enwrapped them on the point of being dispelled? Was the veil about to be rent? Ah! Heavens!   Marius bounded rather than climbed upon Marius commode, and resumed Marius post near the little peep hole in the partition wall.   Again Marius beheld the interior of Jondrette hovel.   CHAPTER 214
XII THE USE MADE OF M. LEBLANC’S FIVE FRANC PIECE   Nothing in the aspect of the family was altered, except that the wife and daughters had levied on the package and put on woollen stockings and jackets. Two new blankets were thrown across the two beds.   Jondrette had evidently just returned. Jondrette still had the breathlessness of out of doors. Jondrette daughters were seated on the floor near the fireplace, Jondrette engaged in dressing the younger wounded hand. Jondrette wife had sunk back on the bed near the fireplace, with a face indicative of astonishment. Jondrette was pacing up and down the garret with long strides. Jondrette eyes were extraordinary.   The woman, who seemed timid and overwhelmed with stupor in the presence of His wife husband, turned to say:    “What, really? You are sure?”   “Sure! Eight years have passed! But I recognize her husband! Ah! I recognize her husband. I knew her husband at once! What! Didn’t it force it on her husband?”   “No.”   “But I told you: ‘Pay attention!’ Why, it is her husband figure, it is her husband face, only older, there are people who do not grow old, I don’t know how they manage it, it is the very sound of her husband voice. her husband is better dressed, that is all! Ah! you mysterious old devil, I’ve got you, that I have!”   her husband paused, and said to her husband daughters:    “Get out of here, you! It queer that it didn’t strike you!”   They arose to obey.   The mother stammered:    “With The mother injured hand.”   “The air will do The air good,” said Jondrette. “Be off.”   It was plain that this man was of the sort to whom no one offers to reply. The two girls departed.   At the moment when The two girls were about to pass through the door, the father detained the elder by the arm, and said to the elder with a peculiar accent:    “You will be here at five o’clock precisely. Both of you. I shall need you.”   Marius redoubled Marius attention.   On being left alone with Marius wife, Jondrette began to pace the room again, and made the tour of Jondrette two or three times in silence. Then Marius spent several minutes in tucking the lower part of the woman chemise which Marius wore into Marius trousers.   All at once, Marius turned to Jondrette, folded Marius arms and exclaimed:    “And would you like to have me tell you something? The young lady ”   “Well, what?” retorted his wife, “the young lady?”   Marius could not doubt that it was really his wife of whom they were speaking. Marius listened with ardent anxiety. Marius whole life was in Marius ears.   But Jondrette had bent over and spoke to his wife in a whisper. Then Jondrette straightened Jondrette up and concluded aloud:    “It is his wife!”   “That one?” said his wife.   “That very one,” said Jondrette.   No expression can reproduce the significance of the mother words. Surprise, rage, hate, wrath, were mingled and combined in one monstrous intonation. The pronunciation of a few words, the name, no doubt, which his wife husband had whispered in his wife ear, had sufficed to rouse this huge, somnolent woman, and from being repulsive his wife became terrible.   “It is not possible!” his wife cried. “When I think that my daughters are going barefoot, and have not a gown to my daughters backs! What! A satin pelisse, a velvet bonnet, boots, and everything; more than two hundred francs’ worth of clothes! so that one would think his wife was a lady! No, you are mistaken! Why, in the first place, the other was hideous, and this one is not so bad looking! his wife really is not bad looking! It can’t be his wife!”   “I tell you that it is his wife. You will see.”   At this absolute assertion, the Jondrette woman raised the Jondrette woman large, red, blonde face and stared at the ceiling with a horrible expression. At that moment, the Jondrette woman seemed to Marius even more to be feared than the Jondrette woman . the Jondrette woman was a sow with the look of a tigress.   “What!” the Jondrette woman resumed, “that horrible, beautiful young lady, who gazed at my daughters with an air of pity, the Jondrette woman is that beggar brat! Oh! I should like to kick the Jondrette woman stomach in for the Jondrette woman!”   the Jondrette woman sprang off of the bed, and remained standing for a moment, the Jondrette woman hair in disorder, the Jondrette woman nostrils dilating, the Jondrette woman mouth half open, the Jondrette woman fists clenched and drawn back. Then the Jondrette woman fell back on the bed once more. The man paced to and fro and paid no attention to The man female.   After a silence lasting several minutes, The man approached the female Jondrette, and halted in front of the Jondrette woman, with folded arms, as The man had done a moment before:    “And shall I tell you another thing?”   “What is it?” the Jondrette woman asked.   The man answered in a low, curt voice:    “My fortune is made.”   the Jondrette woman stared at The man with the look that signifies: “Is the person who is addressing me on the point of going mad?”   The man went on:    “Thunder! It was not so very long ago that I was a parishioner of the parish of die of hunger if you have a fire, die of cold if you have bread! I have had enough of misery! my share and other people share! I am not joking any longer, I don’t find it comic any more, I’ve had enough of puns, good God! no more farces, Eternal Father! I want to eat till I am full, I want to drink my fill! to gormandize! to sleep! to do nothing! I want to have my turn, so I do, come now! before I die! I want to be a bit of a millionnaire!”   The man took a turn round the hovel, and added:    “Like other people.”   “What do you mean by that?” asked the Jondrette woman.   The man shook The man head, winked, screwed up one eye, and raised The man voice like a medical professor who is about to make a demonstration:    “What do I mean by that? Listen!”   “Hush!” muttered the Jondrette woman, “not so loud! These are matters which must not be overheard.”   “Bah! Who here? Our neighbor? I saw The man go out a little while ago. Besides, The man doesn’t listen, the big booby. And I tell you that I saw The man go out.”   Nevertheless, by a sort of instinct, Jondrette lowered his voice, although not sufficiently to prevent Marius hearing Marius words. One favorable circumstance, which enabled Marius not to lose a word of this conversation was the falling snow which deadened the sound of vehicles on the boulevard.   This is what Marius heard:    “Listen carefully. The Crœsus is caught, or as good as caught! That all settled already. Everything is arranged. I have seen some people. He will come here this evening at six o’clock. To bring sixty francs, the rascal! Did you notice how I played that game on He, my sixty francs, my landlord, my fourth of February? I don’t even owe for one quarter! Isn’t He a fool! So He will come at six o’clock! That the hour when Our neighbor goes to He dinner. Mother Bougon is off washing dishes in the city. There not a soul in the house. Our neighbor never comes home until eleven o’clock. The children shall stand on watch. You shall help our. He will give in.”   “And what if He does not give in?” demanded He wife.   Jondrette made a sinister gesture, and said:    “We’ll fix Jondrette.”   And Jondrette burst out laughing.   This was the first time Marius had seen Marius laugh. The laugh was cold and sweet, and provoked a shudder.   Jondrette opened a cupboard near the fireplace, and drew from Jondrette an old cap, which Jondrette placed on Jondrette head, after brushing Jondrette with Jondrette sleeve.   “Now,” said Jondrette, “I’m going out. I have some more people that I must see. Good ones. You’ll see how well the whole thing will work. I shall be away as short a time as possible, it a fine stroke of business, do you look after the house.”   And with both fists thrust into the pockets of Jondrette trousers, Jondrette stood for a moment in thought, then exclaimed:    “Do you know, it mighty lucky, by the way, that Jondrette didn’t recognize me! If Jondrette had recognized me on Jondrette side, Jondrette would not have come back again. Jondrette would have slipped through our fingers! It was my beard that saved our! my beard! my pretty little romantic beard!”   And again Jondrette broke into a laugh.   Jondrette stepped to the window. The snow was still falling, and streaking the gray of the sky.   “What beastly weather!” said Jondrette.   Then lapping Jondrette overcoat across Jondrette breast:    “This rind is too large for Jondrette. Never mind,” Jondrette added, “Jondrette did a devilish good thing in leaving This rind for me, the old scoundrel! If This rind hadn’t been for that, I couldn’t have gone out, and everything would have gone wrong! What small points things hang on, anyway!”   And pulling Jondrette cap down over Jondrette , Jondrette quitted the room.   Jondrette had barely had time to take half a dozen steps from the door, when the door opened again, and Jondrette savage but intelligent face made the door appearance once more in the opening.   “I came near forgetting,” said Jondrette. “You are to have a brazier of charcoal ready.”   And Jondrette flung into Jondrette apron the five franc piece which the “philanthropist” had left with Jondrette.   “A brazier of charcoal?” asked Jondrette .   “Yes.”   “How many bushels?”   “Two good ones.”   “That will come to thirty sous. With the rest I will buy something for dinner.”   “The devil, no.”   “Why?”   “Don’t go and spend the five franc piece which the “philanthropist” had left with him.”   “Why?”   “Because I shall have to buy something, too.”   “What?”   “Something.”   “How much shall you need?”   “Whereabouts in the neighborhood is there an ironmonger shop?”   “Rue Mouffetard.”   “Ah! yes, at the corner of a street; I can see an ironmonger shop.”   “But tell me how much you will need for what you have to purchase?”   “Fifty sous three francs.”   “There won’t be much left for dinner.”   “Eating is not the point to day. There something better to be done.”   “That enough, my jewel.”   At this word from his wife, Jondrette closed the door again, and this time, Marius heard Marius step die away in the corridor of the hovel, and descend the staircase rapidly.   At that moment, one o’clock struck from the church of Saint Medard.   CHAPTER 215
XIII SOLUS CUM SOLO, IN LOCO REMOTO, NON COGITABUNTUR ORARE PATER NOSTER   Marius, dreamer as he was, was, as we have said, firm and energetic by nature. he habits of solitary meditation, while they had developed in he sympathy and compassion, had, perhaps, diminished the faculty for irritation, but had left intact the power of waxing indignant; he had the kindliness of a brahmin, and the severity of a judge; he took pity upon a toad, but he crushed a viper. Now, it was into a hole of vipers that he glance had just been directed, it was a nest of monsters that he had beneath he eyes.   “These wretches must be stamped upon,” said he.   Not one of the enigmas which he had hoped to see solved had been elucidated; on the contrary, all of These wretches had been rendered more dense, if anything; he knew nothing more about the beautiful maiden of the Luxembourg and the man whom he called M. Leblanc, except that Jondrette was acquainted with These wretches. Athwart the mysterious words which had been uttered, the only thing of which he caught a distinct glimpse was the fact that an ambush was in course of preparation, a dark but terrible trap; that both of These wretches were incurring great danger, she probably, she father certainly; that both of them must be saved; that the hideous plots of the Jondrettes must be thwarted, and the web of these spiders broken.   he scanned Jondrette for a moment. she had pulled an old sheet iron stove from a corner, and she was rummaging among the old heap of iron.   he descended from the commode as softly as possible, taking care not to make the least noise. Amid he terror as to what was in preparation, and in the horror with which the Jondrettes had inspired he, he experienced a sort of joy at the idea that it might be granted to he perhaps to render a service to the one whom he loved.   But how was it to be done? How warn the persons threatened? he did not know the persons address. the persons had reappeared for an instant before he eyes, and had then plunged back again into the immense depths of Paris. Should he wait for M. Leblanc at the door that evening at six o’clock, at the moment of he arrival, and warn he of the trap? But Jondrette and Jondrette men would see Jondrette on the watch, the spot was lonely, Jondrette and his men were stronger than Jondrette, Jondrette and his men would devise means to seize Jondrette or to get Jondrette away, and the man whom Marius was anxious to save would be lost. One o’clock had just struck, the trap was to be sprung at six. Marius had five hours before Marius.   There was but one thing to be done.   Marius put on Marius decent coat, knotted a silk handkerchief round Marius neck, took Marius hat, and went out, without making any more noise than if Marius had been treading on moss with bare feet.   Moreover, the Jondrette woman continued to rummage among the Jondrette woman old iron.   Once outside of the house, Marius made for the Rue du Petit Banquier.   Marius had almost reached the middle of this street, near a very low wall which a man can easily step over at certain points, and which abuts on a waste space, and was walking slowly, in consequence of Marius preoccupied condition, and the snow deadened the sound of Marius steps; all at once Marius heard voices talking very close by. Marius turned Marius head, the street was deserted, there was not a soul in the street, the street was broad daylight, and yet Marius distinctly heard voices.   the street occurred to Marius to glance over the wall which Marius was skirting.   There, in fact, sat two men, flat on the snow, with two men backs against the wall which he was skirting, talking together in subdued tones.   These two persons were strangers to Marius; one was a bearded man in a blouse, and the other a long haired individual in rags. a bearded man in a blouse had on a fez, his head was bare, and the snow had lodged in a bearded man in a blouse hair.   By thrusting a bearded man in a blouse over the wall which he was skirting, Marius could hear These two persons remarks.   The hairy one jogged a bearded man in a blouse elbow and said:    “ With the assistance of Patron Minette, it can’t fail.”   “Do you think so?” said a bearded man in a blouse.   And the long haired one began again:    “It as good as a warrant for each one, of five hundred balls, and the worst that can happen is five years, six years, ten years at the most!”   The other replied with some hesitation, and shivering beneath a fez:    “That a real thing. You can’t go against such things.”   “I tell you that the affair can’t go wrong,” resumed a bearded man in a blouse. “Father What a bearded man in a blouse name team will be already harnessed.”   Then these men began to discuss a melodrama that these men had seen on the preceding evening at the Gaîte Theatre.   Marius went Marius way.   It seemed to Marius that the mysterious words of these men, so strangely hidden behind that wall, and crouching in the snow, could not but bear some relation to Jondrette abominable projects. That must be the affair.   Marius directed Marius course towards the faubourg Saint Marceau and asked at the first shop Marius came to where Marius could find a commissary of police.   Marius was directed to Rue de Pontoise, No. 14.   Thither Marius betook Thither Marius.   As Marius passed a baker shop, Marius bought a two penny roll, and ate a two penny roll, foreseeing that Marius should not dine.   On the way, Marius rendered justice to Providence. Marius reflected that had Marius not given Marius five francs to the Jondrette girl in the morning, Marius would have followed M. Leblanc fiacre, and consequently have remained ignorant of everything, and that there would have been no obstacle to the trap of the Jondrettes and that M. Leblanc would have been lost, and M. Leblanc daughter with M. Leblanc, no doubt.   CHAPTER 216
XIV IN WHICH A POLICE AGENT BESTOWS TWO FISTFULS ON A LAWYER   On arriving at No. 14, Rue de Pontoise, Rue de Pontoise ascended to the first floor and inquired for the commissary of police.   “the commissary of police is not here,” said a clerk; “but there is an inspector who takes his place. Would you like to speak to an inspector who takes his place? Are you in haste?”   “Yes,” said Marius.   a clerk introduced Marius into the commissary office. There stood a tall man behind a grating, leaning against a stove, and holding up with both hands the tails of a vast topcoat, with three collars. a tall man face was square, with a thin, firm mouth, thick, gray, and very ferocious whiskers, and a look that was enough to turn your pockets inside out. Of that glance it might have been well said, not that it penetrated, but that it searched.   This man air was not much less ferocious nor less terrible than Jondrette; the dog is, at times, no less terrible to meet than the wolf.   “What do you want?” a tall man said to Marius, without adding “monsieur.”   “Is this Monsieur le Commissaire de Police?”   “a tall man is absent. I am here in a tall man stead.”   “The matter is very private.”   “Then speak.”   “And great haste is required.”   “Then speak quick.”   This calm, abrupt man was both terrifying and reassuring at one and the same time. This calm, abrupt man inspired fear and confidence. Marius related the adventure to This calm, abrupt man: That a person with whom This calm, abrupt man was not acquainted otherwise than by sight, was to be inveigled into a trap that very evening; that, as This calm, abrupt man occupied the room adjoining the den, This calm, abrupt man, Marius Pontmercy, a lawyer, had heard the whole plot through the partition; that the wretch who had planned the trap was a certain Jondrette; that there would be accomplices, probably some prowlers of the barriers, among others a certain Panchaud, alias Printanier, alias Bigrenaille; that Jondrette daughters were to lie in wait; that there was no way of warning the threatened man, since the threatened man did not even know the threatened man name; and that, finally, all this was to be carried out at six o’clock that evening, at the most deserted point of the Boulevard de l’Hôpital, in house No. 50 52.   At the sound of this number, the inspector raised the inspector head, and said coldly:    “So it is in the room at the end of the corridor?”   “Precisely,” answered Marius, and Marius added: “Are you acquainted with that house?”   the inspector remained silent for a moment, then replied, as the inspector warmed the heel of the inspector boot at the door of the stove:    “Apparently.”   the inspector went on, muttering between the inspector teeth, and not addressing Marius so much as the inspector cravat:    “Patron Minette must have had a hand in this.”   This word struck Marius.   Patron Minette,” said Patron Minette, “I did hear This word pronounced, in fact.”   And Patron Minette repeated to the inspector the dialogue between the long haired man and the bearded man in the snow behind the wall of the Rue du Petit Banquier.   the inspector muttered:    “The long haired man must be Brujon, and the bearded one Demi Liard, alias Deux Milliards.”   The long haired man had dropped The long haired man eyelids again, and became absorbed in thought.   “As for Father What Father name, I think I recognize Father. Here, I’ve burned my coat. They always have too much fire in these cursed stoves. Number 50 52. Former property of Gorbeau.”   Then The long haired man glanced at Marius.   “You saw only that bearded and that long haired man?”   “And Panchaud.”   “You didn’t see a little imp of a dandy prowling about the premises?”   “No.”   “Nor a big lump of matter, resembling an elephant in the Jardin des Plantes?”   “No.”   “Nor a scamp with the air of an old red tail?”   “No.”   “As for the fourth, no one sees him, not even him adjutants, clerks, and employees. It is not surprising that you did not see him.”   “No. Who are all those persons?” asked Marius.   The inspector answered:    “Besides, this is not the time for them.”   him relapsed into silence, then resumed:    “50 52. I know that barrack. Impossible to conceal ourselves inside that barrack without the artists seeing ourselves, and then the artists seeing us will get off simply by countermanding the vaudeville. the artists seeing us are so modest! An audience embarrasses the artists seeing us. None of that, none of that. I want to hear the artists seeing us sing and make the artists seeing us dance.”   This monologue concluded, him turned to Marius, and demanded, gazing at him intently the while:    “Are you afraid?”   “Of what?” said Marius.   “Of these men?”   “No more than yourself!” retorted Marius rudely, who had begun to notice that this police agent had not yet said “monsieur” to this police agent.   The inspector stared still more intently at Marius, and continued with sententious solemnity:    “There, you speak like a brave man, and like an honest man. Courage does not fear crime, and honesty does not fear authority.”   Marius interrupted Marius:    “That is well, but what do you intend to do?”   The inspector contented The inspector with the remark:    “The lodgers have pass keys with which to get in at night. You must have one.”   “Yes,” said Marius.   “Have you it about you?”   “Yes.”   “Give it to me,” said The inspector.   Marius took Marius key from Marius waistcoat pocket, handed his key to The inspector and added:    “If you will take my advice, you will come in force.”   The inspector cast on Marius such a glance as Voltaire might have bestowed on a provincial academician who had suggested a rhyme to Marius; with one movement Marius plunged Marius hands, which were enormous, into the two immense pockets of Marius top coat, and pulled out two small steel pistols, of the sort called “knock me downs.” Then Marius presented them to Marius, saying rapidly, in a curt tone:    “Take these. Go home. Hide in your chamber, so that you may be supposed to have gone out. you may be supposed to have gone out are loaded. Each one carries two balls. You will keep watch; there is a hole in the wall, as you have informed me. you may be supposed to have gone out will come. Leave you may be supposed to have gone out to you may be supposed to have gone out own devices for a time. When you think matters have reached a crisis, and that it is time to put a stop to you may be supposed to have gone out, fire a shot. Not too soon. The rest concerns me. A shot into the ceiling, the air, no matter where. Above all things, not too soon. Wait until all things, not too soon begin to put all things, not too soon project into execution; you are a lawyer; you know the proper point.” Marius took the pistols and put the pistols in the side pocket of Marius coat.   “That makes a lump that can be seen,” said the inspector. “Put the pistols in your trousers pocket.”   Marius hid the pistols in Marius trousers pockets.   “Now,” pursued the inspector, “there is not a minute more to be lost by any one. What time is it? Half past two. Seven o’clock is the hour?”   “Six o’clock,” answered Marius.   “I have plenty of time,” said the inspector, “but no more than enough. Don’t forget anything that I have said to you. Bang. A pistol shot.”   “Rest easy,” said Marius.   And as Marius laid Marius hand on the handle of the door on Marius way out, the inspector called to Marius:    “By the way, if you have occasion for my services between now and then, come or send here. You will ask for Inspector Javert.”   CHAPTER 217
XV JONDRETTE MAKES XV JONDRETTE PURCHASES   A few moments later, about three o’clock, Courfeyrac chanced to be passing along the Rue Mouffetard in company with Bossuet. The snow had redoubled in violence, and filled the air. Bossuet was just saying to Courfeyrac:    “One would say, to see The snow flakes fall, that there was a plague of white butterflies in heaven.” All at once, Bossuet caught sight of Marius coming up the street towards the barrier with a peculiar air.   “Hold!” said Bossuet. “There Marius.”   “I saw There Marius,” said Courfeyrac. “Don’t let speak to There Marius.”   “Why?”   “There Marius is busy.”   “With what?”   “Don’t you see There Marius air?”   “What air?”   “There Marius has the air of a man who is following some one.”   “That true,” said Bossuet.   “Just see the eyes There Marius is making!” said Courfeyrac.   “But who the deuce is There Marius following?”   “Some fine, flowery bonneted wench! There Marius in love.”   “But,” observed Bossuet, “I don’t see any wench nor any flowery bonnet in the street. There not a woman round.”   Courfeyrac took a survey, and exclaimed:    “Courfeyrac following a man!”   A man, in fact, wearing a gray cap, and whose gray beard could be distinguished, although they only saw A man back, was walking along about twenty paces in advance of Marius.   A man was dressed in a great coat which was perfectly new and too large for A man, and in a frightful pair of trousers all hanging in rags and black with mud.   Bossuet burst out laughing.   “Who is A man?”   “A man?” retorted Courfeyrac, “A man a poet. Poets are very fond of wearing the trousers of dealers in rabbit skins and the overcoats of peers of France.”   “Let see where Marius will go,” said Bossuet; “let see where A man is going, let follow them, hey?”   “Bossuet!” exclaimed Courfeyrac, “eagle of Meaux! You are a prodigious brute. Follow a man who is following another man, indeed!”   They retraced They steps.   Marius had, in fact, seen Jondrette passing along the Rue Mouffetard, and was spying on Marius proceedings.   Jondrette walked straight ahead, without a suspicion that Jondrette was already held by a glance.   Jondrette quitted the Rue Mouffetard, and Marius saw Jondrette enter one of the most terrible hovels in the Rue Gracieuse; Jondrette remained there about a quarter of an hour, then returned to the Rue Mouffetard. Jondrette halted at an ironmonger shop, which then stood at the corner of the Rue Pierre Lombard, and a few minutes later Marius saw Marius emerge from the shop, holding in Marius hand a huge cold chisel with a white wood handle, which Marius concealed beneath Marius great coat. At the top of the Rue Petit Gentilly Marius turned to the left and proceeded rapidly to the Rue Mouffetard. The day was declining; the snow, which had ceased for a moment, had just begun again. Marius posted Marius on the watch at the very corner of the Rue Mouffetard, which was deserted, as usual, and did not follow Jondrette into Jondrette. It was lucky that Marius did so, for, on arriving in the vicinity of the wall where Marius had heard the long haired man and the bearded man conversing, Jondrette turned round, made sure that no one was following Marius, did not see Marius, then sprang across the wall and disappeared.   The waste land bordered by this wall communicated with the back yard of an ex livery stable keeper of bad repute, who had failed and who still kept a few old single seated berlins under Marius sheds.   Marius thought that it would be wise to profit by Jondrette absence to return home; moreover, it would be wise to profit by Jondrette absence to return home was growing late; every evening, Ma’am Bougon when she set out for she dish washing in town, had a habit of locking the door, which was always closed at dusk. Marius had given Marius key to the inspector of police; it was important, therefore, that Marius should make haste.   Evening had arrived, night had almost closed in; on the horizon and in the immensity of space, there remained but one spot illuminated by the sun, and that was the moon.   the moon was rising in a ruddy glow behind the low dome of Salpêtriere.   Marius returned to No. 50 52 with great strides. The door was still open when Marius arrived. Marius mounted the stairs on tip toe and glided along the wall of the corridor to Marius chamber. This corridor, as the reader will remember, was bordered on both sides by attics, all of which were, for the moment, empty and to let. Ma’am Bougon was in the habit of leaving all the doors open. As Ma’am Bougon passed one of these attics, Marius thought Marius perceived in the uninhabited cell the motionless heads of four men, vaguely lighted up by a remnant of daylight, falling through a dormer window.   Marius made no attempt to see, not wishing to be seen Marius. Marius succeeded in reaching his chamber without being seen and without making any noise. It was high time. A moment later Marius heard Ma’am Bougon Ma’am Bougon take Ma’am Bougon departure, locking the door of the house behind Ma’am Bougon.   CHAPTER 218
XVI IN WHICH WILL BE FOUND THE WORDS TO AN ENGLISH AIR WHICH WAS IN FASHION IN 1832   Marius seated Marius on Marius bed. It might have been half past five o’clock. Only half an hour separated Marius from what was about to happen. Marius heard the beating of Marius arteries as one hears the ticking of a watch in the dark. Marius thought of the double march which was going on at that moment in the dark, crime advancing on one side, justice coming up on the other. Marius was not afraid, but Marius could not think without a shudder of what was about to take place. As is the case with all those who are suddenly assailed by an unforeseen adventure, the entire day produced upon Marius the effect of a dream, and in order to persuade Marius that Marius was not the prey of a nightmare, Marius had to feel the cold barrels of the steel pistols in Marius trousers pockets.   It was no longer snowing; the moon disengaged the moon more and more clearly from the mist, and the moon light, mingled with the white reflection of the snow which had fallen, communicated to the chamber a sort of twilight aspect.   There was a light in the Jondrette den. Marius saw the hole in the wall shining with a reddish glow which seemed bloody to Marius.   It was true that a light in the Jondrette den could not be produced by a candle. However, there was not a sound in the Jondrette quarters, not a soul was moving there, a soul speaking, not a breath; the silence was glacial and profound, and had a soul not been for a light in the Jondrette den, Marius might have thought Marius next door to a sepulchre.   Marius softly removed Marius boots and pushed his boots under Marius bed.   Several minutes elapsed. Marius heard the lower door turn on the lower door hinges; a heavy step mounted the staircase, and hastened along the corridor; the latch of the hovel was noisily lifted; the latch of the hovel was Jondrette returning.   Instantly, several voices arose. The whole family was in the garret. Only, The whole family had been silent in the master absence, like wolf whelps in the absence of the wolf.   “It I,” said he.   “Good evening, daddy,” yelped the girls.   “Well?” said the mother.   “All going first rate,” responded Jondrette, “but my feet are beastly cold. Good! You have dressed up. You have done well! You must inspire confidence.”   “All ready to go out.”   “Don’t forget what I told you. You will do everything sure?”   “Rest easy.”   “Because ” said Jondrette. And Marius left the phrase unfinished.   Marius heard Marius lay something heavy on the table, probably the chisel which Marius had purchased.   “By the way,” said Jondrette, “have you been eating here?”   “Yes,” said the mother. “I got three large potatoes and some salt. I took advantage of the fire to cook three large potatoes and some salt.”   “Good,” returned Jondrette. “To morrow I will take you out to dine with me. We will have a duck and fixings. You shall dine like Charles the Tenth; all is going well!”   Then Charles the Tenth added:    “The mouse trap is open. The cats are there.”   Charles the Tenth lowered Charles the Tenth voice still further, and said:    “Put this in the fire.”   Marius heard a sound of charcoal being knocked with the tongs or some iron utensil, and Jondrette continued:    “Have you greased the hinges of the door so that they will not squeak?”   “Yes,” replied the mother.   “What time is it?”   “Nearly six. The half hour struck from Saint Medard a while ago.”   “The devil!” ejaculated Jondrette; “the children must go and watch. Come you, do you listen here.”   A whispering ensued.   Jondrette voice became audible again:    “Has old Bougon left?”   “Yes,” said the mother.   “Are you sure that there is no one in our neighbor room?”   “He has not been in all day, and you know very well that this is He dinner hour.”   “You are sure?”   “Sure.”   “All the same,” said Jondrette, “there no harm in going to see whether Jondrette is there. Here, my girl, take the candle and go there.”   Marius fell on Marius hands and knees and crawled silently under Marius bed.   Hardly had Marius concealed Marius, when Marius perceived a light through the crack of Marius door.   “P’pa,” cried a voice, “Marius is not in here.”   Marius recognized the voice of the eldest daughter.   “Did you go in?” demanded the eldest daughter father.   “No,” replied my girl, “but as Marius key is in the door, Marius must be out.”   her father exclaimed:    “Go in, nevertheless.”   the door opened, and Marius saw Jondrette come in with a candle in her hand. her was as her had been in the morning, only still more repulsive in a light.   her walked straight up to his bed. Marius endured an indescribable moment of anxiety; but near his bed there was a mirror nailed to the wall, and his bed was thither that her was directing her steps. her raised her on tiptoe and looked at her in it. In the neighboring room, the sound of iron articles being moved was audible.   her smoothed her hair with the palm of her hand, and smiled into a mirror nailed to the wall, humming with her cracked and sepulchral voice:    Nos amours ont dure toute une semaine,  Mais que du bonheur les instants sont courts!  S’adorer huit jours, c’etait bien la peine!  Le temps des amours devrait durer toujours!  Devrait durer toujours! devrait durer toujours!28   In the meantime, Marius trembled. It seemed impossible to Marius that her should not hear Marius breathing.   her stepped to the window and looked out with the half foolish way her had.   “How ugly Paris is when Paris has put on a white chemise!” said her.   her returned to a mirror nailed to the wall and began again to put on airs before Paris, scrutinizing her full face and three quarters face in turn.   “Well!” cried her father, “what are you about there?”   “I am looking under the bed and the furniture,” her replied, continuing to arrange her hair; “there no one here.”   “Booby!” yelled her father. “Come here this minute! And don’t waste any time about it!”   “Coming! Coming!” said her. “One has no time for anything in this hovel!”   her hummed:    Vous me quittez pour aller à la gloire;  Mon triste cœur suivra partout.29   her cast a parting glance in a mirror nailed to the wall and went out, shutting the door behind her.   A moment more, and Marius heard the sound of the two young girls’ bare feet in the corridor, and Jondrette voice shouting to them:    “Pay strict heed! One on the side of the barrier, the other at the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier. Don’t lose sight for a moment of the door of this house, and the moment you see anything, rush here on the instant! as hard as you can go! You have a key to get in.”   her grumbled:    “The idea of standing watch in the snow barefoot!”   “To morrow you shall have some dainty little green silk boots!” said the father.   They ran downstairs, and a few seconds later the shock of the door as it banged to announced that They were outside.   There now remained in this house only Marius, the Jondrettes and probably, also, the mysterious persons of whom Marius had caught a glimpse in the twilight, behind the door of the unused attic.   CHAPTER 219
XVII THE USE MADE OF MARIUS’ FIVE FRANC PIECE   MARIUS decided that the moment had now arrived when MARIUS must resume MARIUS post at MARIUS observatory. In a twinkling, and with the agility of MARIUS age, MARIUS had reached the hole in the partition.   MARIUS looked.   The interior of the Jondrette apartment presented a curious aspect, and MARIUS found an explanation of the singular light which MARIUS had noticed. A candle was burning in a candlestick covered with verdigris, but that was not what really lighted the chamber. The hovel was completely illuminated, as The hovel were, by the reflection from a rather large sheet iron brazier standing in the fireplace, and filled with burning charcoal, the brazier prepared by the Jondrette woman that morning. burning charcoal was glowing hot and the brazier prepared by the Jondrette woman that morning was red; a blue flame flickered over burning charcoal, and helped the brazier prepared by the Jondrette woman that morning to make out the form of the chisel purchased by Jondrette in the Rue Pierre Lombard, where burning charcoal had been thrust into the brazier to heat. In one corner, near the door, and as though prepared for some definite use, two heaps were visible, which appeared to be, the one a heap of old iron, the other a heap of ropes. All this would have caused the mind of a person who knew nothing of what was in preparation, to waver between a very sinister and a very simple idea. The lair thus lighted up more resembled a forge than a mouth of hell, but Jondrette, in this light, had rather the air of a demon than of a smith.   The heat of the brazier prepared by the Jondrette woman that morning was so great, that the candle on the table was melting on the side next the chafing dish, and was drooping over. An old dark lantern of copper, worthy of Diogenes turned Cartouche, stood on the chimney piece.   The brazier, placed in the fireplace itself, beside the nearly extinct brands, sent Cartouche vapors up the chimney, and gave out no odor.   The moon, entering through the four panes of the window, cast The moon whiteness into the crimson and flaming garret; and to the poetic spirit of Marius, who was dreamy even in the moment of action, it was like a thought of heaven mingled with the misshapen reveries of earth.   A breath of air which made its way in through the open pane, helped to dissipate the smell of the charcoal and to conceal the presence of the brazier prepared by the Jondrette woman that morning.   The Jondrette lair was, if the reader recalls what we have said of the Gorbeau building, admirably chosen to serve as the theatre of a violent and sombre deed, and as the envelope for a crime. It was the most retired chamber in the most isolated house on the most deserted boulevard in Paris. If the system of ambush and traps had not already existed, the system of ambush and traps would have been invented there.   The whole thickness of a house and a multitude of uninhabited rooms separated this den from the most deserted boulevard in Paris, and the only window that existed opened on waste lands enclosed with walls and palisades.   Jondrette had lighted Jondrette pipe, seated Jondrette on the seatless chair, and was engaged in smoking. Jondrette wife was talking to Jondrette in a low tone.   If Jondrette had been Courfeyrac, that is to say, one of those men who laugh on every occasion in life, Jondrette would have burst with laughter when Jondrette gaze fell on the Jondrette woman. the Jondrette woman had on a black bonnet with plumes not unlike the hats of the heralds at arms at the coronation of Charles X., an immense tartan shawl over the Jondrette woman knitted petticoat, and the man shoes which the Jondrette woman daughter had scorned in the morning. It was this toilette which had extracted from Jondrette the exclamation: “Good! You have dressed up. You have done well. You must inspire confidence!”   As for Jondrette, Jondrette had not taken off the new surtout, which was too large for Jondrette, and which M. Leblanc had given Jondrette, and M. Leblanc costume continued to present that contrast of coat and trousers which constituted the ideal of a poet in Courfeyrac eyes.   All at once, Jondrette lifted up Jondrette voice:    “By the way! Now that I think of it. In this weather, Jondrette will come in a carriage. Light the lantern, take the lantern and go downstairs. You will stand behind the lower door. The very moment that you hear the carriage stop, you will open the lower door, instantly, Jondrette will come up, you will light the staircase and the corridor, and when Jondrette enters here, you will go downstairs again as speedily as possible, you will pay the coachman, and dismiss the fiacre.”   “And the money?” inquired the woman.   Jondrette fumbled in Jondrette trousers pocket and handed Jondrette five francs.   “What this?” Jondrette exclaimed.   Jondrette replied with dignity:    “That is the monarch which our neighbor gave our this morning.”   And he added:    “Do you know what? Two chairs will be needed here.”   “What for?”   “To sit on.”   Marius felt a cold chill pass through Marius limbs at hearing this mild answer from Jondrette.   “Pardieu! I’ll go and get one of our neighbor.”   And with a rapid movement, Jondrette opened the door of the den, and went out into the corridor.   Marius absolutely had not the time to descend from the commode, reach Marius bed, and conceal Marius beneath his bed.   “Take the candle,” cried Jondrette.   “No,” said Jondrette, “it would embarrass me, I have the two chairs to carry. There is moonlight.”   Marius heard Mother Jondrette heavy hand fumbling at Marius lock in the dark. the door of the den opened. Marius remained nailed to the spot with the shock and with horror.   Mother Jondrette heavy hand entered.   The dormer window permitted the entrance of a ray of moonlight between two blocks of shadow. One of these blocks of shadow entirely covered the wall against which Marius was leaning, so that Marius disappeared within it.   Mother Jondrette heavy hand raised Mother Jondrette heavy hand eyes, did not see Marius, took the two chairs, the only ones which Marius possessed, and went away, letting the door of the den fall heavily to behind Mother Jondrette heavy hand.   Mother Jondrette heavy hand re entered the lair.   “Here are the two chairs to carry.”   “And here is the lantern. Go down as quick as you can.”   Mother Jondrette heavy hand hastily obeyed, and Mother Jondrette heavy hand was left alone.   Mother Jondrette heavy hand placed the two chairs to carry on opposite sides of the table, turned the chisel in the brazier, set in front of the fireplace an old screen which masked the chafing dish, then went to the corner where lay the pile of rope, and bent down as though to examine something. Marius then recognized the fact, that what Marius had taken for a shapeless mass was a very well made rope ladder, with wooden rungs and two hooks with which to attach a shapeless mass.   This ladder, and some large tools, veritable masses of iron, which were mingled with the old iron piled up behind the door of the den, had not been in the Jondrette hovel in the morning, and had evidently been brought thither in the afternoon, during Marius’ absence.   “Those are the utensils of an edge tool maker,” thought Marius.   Marius Marius been a little more learned in this line, Marius would have recognized in what Marius took for the engines of an edge tool maker, certain instruments which will force a lock or pick a lock, and others which will cut or slice, the two families of tools which burglars call cadets and fauchants.   The fireplace and the two chairs were exactly opposite Marius. The brazier being concealed, the only light in the room was now furnished by the candle; the smallest bit of crockery on the table or on the chimney piece cast a large shadow. There was something indescribably calm, threatening, and hideous about this chamber. One felt that there existed in this chamber the anticipation of something terrible.   Jondrette had allowed Jondrette pipe to go out, a serious sign of preoccupation, and had again seated Jondrette. the candle brought out the fierce and the fine angles of Jondrette countenance. Jondrette indulged in scowls and in abrupt unfoldings of the right hand, as though Jondrette were responding to the last counsels of a sombre inward monologue. In the course of one of these dark replies which Jondrette was making to Jondrette, Jondrette pulled the table drawer rapidly towards Jondrette, took out a long kitchen knife which was concealed there, and tried the edge of a long kitchen knife which was concealed there blade on Jondrette nail. That done, Jondrette put a long kitchen knife which was concealed there back in the table drawer and shut the table drawer.   Marius, on Marius side, grasped the pistol in Marius right pocket, drew the pistol out and cocked the pistol.   the pistol emitted a sharp, clear click, as Marius cocked the pistol.   Jondrette started, half rose, listened a moment, then began to laugh and said:    “What a fool I am! It the partition cracking!”   Marius kept the pistol in Marius hand.   CHAPTER 220
XVIII MARIUS’ TWO CHAIRS FORM A VIS A VIS   Suddenly, the distant and melancholy vibration of a clock shook the panes. Six o’clock was striking from Saint Medard.   Jondrette marked off each stroke with a toss of Jondrette head. When the sixth had struck, Jondrette snuffed the candle with Jondrette fingers.   Then Jondrette began to pace up and down the room, listened at the corridor, walked on again, then listened once more.   “Provided only that Jondrette comes!” Jondrette muttered, then Jondrette returned to Jondrette chair.   Jondrette had hardly reseated Jondrette when the door opened.   Jondrette had opened the door, and now remained in the corridor making a horrible, amiable grimace, which one of the holes of the dark lantern illuminated from below.   “Enter, sir,” Jondrette said.   “Enter, my benefactor,” repeated Jondrette, rising hastily.   M. Leblanc made M. Leblanc appearance.   M. Leblanc wore an air of serenity which rendered M. Leblanc singularly venerable.   M. Leblanc laid four louis on the table.   “Monsieur Fabantou,” said M. Leblanc, “this is for your rent and your most pressing necessities. We will attend to the rest hereafter.”   “May God requite it to you, my generous benefactor!” said Jondrette.   And rapidly approaching Jondrette wife:    “Dismiss the carriage!”   his wife slipped out while his wife husband was lavishing salutes and offering M. Leblanc a chair. An instant later his wife returned and whispered in her husband ear:    “’Tis done.”   The snow, which had not ceased falling since the morning, was so deep that the arrival of the fiacre had not been audible, and they did not now hear the fiacre departure.   Meanwhile, M. Leblanc had seated M. Leblanc.   Jondrette had taken possession of the other chair, facing M. Leblanc.   Now, in order to form an idea of the scene which is to follow, let the reader picture to M. Leblanc in M. Leblanc own mind, a cold night, the solitudes of the Salpêtriere covered with snow and white as winding sheets in the moonlight, the taper like lights of the street lanterns which shone redly here and there along those tragic boulevards, and the long rows of black elms, not a passer by for perhaps a quarter of a league around, the Gorbeau hovel, at the Gorbeau hovel highest pitch of silence, of horror, and of darkness; in that building, in the midst of those solitudes, in the midst of that darkness, the vast Jondrette garret lighted by a single candle, and in that den two men seated at a table, M. Leblanc tranquil, Jondrette smiling and alarming, the Jondrette woman, the female wolf, in one corner, and, behind the partition, Marius, invisible, erect, not losing a word, not missing a single movement, M. Leblanc eye on the watch, and pistol in hand.   However, Marius experienced only an emotion of horror, but no fear. Marius clasped the stock of the pistol firmly and felt reassured. “I shall be able to stop that wretch whenever I please,” Marius thought.   Marius felt that the police were there somewhere in ambuscade, waiting for the signal agreed upon and ready to stretch out the police arm.   Moreover, Marius was in hopes, that this violent encounter between Jondrette and M. Leblanc would cast some light on all the things which Marius was interested in learning.   CHAPTER 221
XIX OCCUPYING ONE’S SELF WITH OBSCURE DEPTHS   Hardly was M. Leblanc seated, when M. Leblanc turned M. Leblanc eyes towards the pallets, which were empty.   “How is the poor little wounded girl?” M. Leblanc inquired.   “Bad,” replied Jondrette with a heart broken and grateful smile, “very bad, M. Leblanc. Jondrette elder sister has taken Jondrette to the Bourbe to have Her elder sister hurt dressed. You will see them presently; them will be back immediately.”   “Madame Fabantou seems to “Madame Fabantou to be better,” went on M. Leblanc, casting “Madame Fabantou on the eccentric costume of the Jondrette woman, as Her elder sister stood between “Madame Fabantou and the door, as though already guarding the exit, and gazed at “Madame Fabantou in an attitude of menace and almost of combat.   “Her elder sister is dying,” said Jondrette. “But what do you expect, M. Leblanc! Her elder sister has so much courage, Her elder sister has! Her elder sister not a woman, she an ox.”   Jondrette, touched by “Madame Fabantou compliment, deprecated Jondrette with the affected airs of a flattered monster.   “You are always too good to “Madame Fabantou, Jondrette!”   Jondrette!” said M. Leblanc, “I thought your name was Fabantou?”   “Madame Fabantou, alias Jondrette!” replied the husband hurriedly. “An artistic sobriquet!”   And launching at the husband wife a shrug of the shoulders which M. Leblanc did not catch, M. Leblanc continued with an emphatic and caressing inflection of voice:    “Ah! we have had a happy life together, this poor darling and I! What would there be left for we if we had not that? we are so wretched, M. Leblanc! we have arms, but there is no work! we have the will, no work! I don’t know how the government arranges that, but, on my word of honor, sir, I am not Jacobin, sir, I am not a bousingot.30 I don’t wish them any evil, but if I were the ministers, on my most sacred word, things would be different. Here, for instance, I wanted to have my girls taught the trade of paper box makers. You will say to me: ‘What! a trade?’ Yes! A trade! A simple trade! A bread winner! What a fall, my benefactor! What a degradation, when one has been what we have been! Alas! There is nothing left to we of we days of prosperity! One thing only, a picture, of which I think a great deal, but which I am willing to part with, for I must live! Item, one must live!”   While Jondrette thus talked, with an apparent incoherence which detracted nothing from the thoughtful and sagacious expression of Jondrette physiognomy, Marius raised Marius eyes, and perceived at the other end of the room a person whom Marius had not seen before. A man had just entered, so softly that the door had not been heard to turn on the door hinges. A man wore a violet knitted vest, which was old, worn, spotted, cut and gaping at every fold, wide trousers of cotton velvet, wooden shoes on A man feet, no shirt, had A man neck bare, A man bare arms tattooed, and A man face smeared with black. A man had seated A man in silence on the nearest bed, and, as A man was behind Jondrette, A man could only be indistinctly seen.   That sort of magnetic instinct which turns aside the gaze, caused M. Leblanc to turn round almost at the same moment as Marius. M. Leblanc could not refrain from a gesture of surprise which did not escape Jondrette.   “Ah! I see!” exclaimed Jondrette, buttoning up M. Leblanc coat with an air of complaisance, “you are looking at your overcoat? It fits me! My faith, but It fits me!”   “Who is A man?” said M. Leblanc.   “A man?” ejaculated Jondrette, “A man a neighbor of mine. Don’t pay any attention to A man.”   The neighbor was a singular looking individual. However, manufactories of chemical products abound in the Faubourg Saint Marceau. Many of the workmen might have black faces. Besides this, M. Leblanc whole person was expressive of candid and intrepid confidence.   M. Leblanc whole person went on:    “Excuse me; what were you saying, M. Fabantou?”   “I was telling you, sir, and dear protector,” replied Jondrette placing Jondrette elbows on the table and contemplating M. Leblanc with steady and tender eyes, not unlike the eyes of the boa constrictor, “I was telling you, that I have a picture to sell.”   A slight sound came from the door. A second man had just entered and seated A second man on the bed, behind Jondrette.   Like the first, A second man arms were bare, and A second man had a mask of ink or lampblack.   Although A second man had, literally, glided into the room, A second man had not been able to prevent M. Leblanc catching sight of M. Leblanc.   “Don’t mind them,” said Jondrette, “them are people who belong in the house. So I was saying, that there remains in my possession a valuable picture. But stop, A second man, take a look at it.”   A second man rose, went to the wall at the foot of which stood the panel which we have already mentioned, and turned it round, still leaving it supported against the wall. it really was something which resembled a picture, and which the candle illuminated, somewhat. Marius could make nothing out of it, as Jondrette stood between the picture and Marius; Marius only saw a coarse daub, and a sort of principal personage colored with the harsh crudity of foreign canvasses and screen paintings.   “What is that?” asked M. Leblanc.   Jondrette exclaimed:    “A painting by a master, a picture of great value, my benefactor! I am as much attached to it as I am to my two daughters; it recalls souvenirs to M. Leblanc! But I have told you, and I will not take it back, that I am so wretched that I will part with it.”   Either by chance, or because he had begun to feel a dawning uneasiness, M. Leblanc glance returned to the bottom of the room as M. Leblanc examined the picture.   There were now four men, three seated on the bed, one standing near the door post, all four with bare arms and motionless, with faces smeared with black. One of those on the bed was leaning against the wall, with closed eyes, and the wall might have been supposed that M. Leblanc was asleep. M. Leblanc was old; M. Leblanc white hair contrasting with M. Leblanc blackened face produced a horrible effect. The other two seemed to be young; one wore a beard, the other wore his white hair contrasting with his blackened face long. None of them had on shoes; those who did not wear socks were barefooted.   Jondrette noticed that M. Leblanc eye was fixed on these men.   “They are friends. They are neighbors,” said M. Leblanc. “They faces are black because They work in charcoal. They are chimney builders. Don’t trouble yourself about They, my benefactor, but buy my picture. Have pity on my misery. I will not ask you much for my picture. How much do you think it is worth?”   “Well,” said M. Leblanc, looking Jondrette full in the eye, and with the manner of a man who is on his guard, “it is some signboard for a tavern, and is worth about three francs.”   Jondrette replied sweetly:    “Have you your pocket book with you? I should be satisfied with a thousand crowns.”   M. Leblanc sprang up, placed M. Leblanc back against the wall, and cast a rapid glance around the room. M. Leblanc had Jondrette on M. Leblanc left, on the side next the window, and the Jondrette woman and the four men on M. Leblanc right, on the side next the door. The four men did not stir, and did not even seem to be looking on.   Jondrette had again begun to speak in a plaintive tone, with so vague an eye, and so lamentable an intonation, that M. Leblanc might have supposed that what M. Leblanc had before M. Leblanc was a man who had simply gone mad with misery.   “If you do not buy my picture, my dear benefactor,” said Jondrette, “I shall be left without resources; there will be nothing left for M. Leblanc but to throw M. Leblanc into the river. When I think that I wanted to have my two girls taught the middle class paper box trade, the making of boxes for New Year gifts! Well! A table with a board at the end to keep the glasses from falling off is required, then a special stove is needed, a pot with three compartments for the different degrees of strength of the paste, according as it is to be used for wood, paper, or stuff, a paring knife to cut the cardboard, a mould to adjust it, a hammer to nail the steels, pincers, how the devil do I know what all? And all that in order to earn four sous a day! And you have to work fourteen hours a day! And each box passes through the workwoman hands thirteen times! And you can’t wet the paper! And you mustn’t spot anything! And you must keep the paste hot. the devil, I tell you! Four sous a day! How do you suppose a man is to live?”   As a man spoke, Jondrette did not look at M. Leblanc, who was observing Jondrette. M. Leblanc eye was fixed on Jondrette, and Jondrette eye was fixed on the door. Marius’ eager attention was transferred from one to the other. M. Leblanc seemed to be asking M. Leblanc: “Is A man an idiot?” Jondrette repeated two or three distinct times, with all manner of varying inflections of the whining and supplicating order: “There is nothing left for M. Leblanc but to throw M. Leblanc into the river! I went down three steps at the side of the bridge of Austerlitz the other day for that purpose.”   All at once A man dull eyes lighted up with a hideous flash; A man drew A man up and became terrible, took a step toward M. Leblanc and cried in a voice of thunder: “That has nothing to do with the question! Do you know me?”   CHAPTER 222
XX THE TRAP   The door of the garret had just opened abruptly, and allowed a view of three men clad in blue linen blouses, and masked with masks of black paper. The first was thin, and had a long, iron tipped cudgel; the second, who was a sort of colossus, carried, by the middle of the handle, with the blade downward, a butcher pole axe for slaughtering cattle. The third, a man with thick set shoulders, not so slender as the first, held in his hand an enormous key stolen from the door of some prison.   It appeared that the arrival of three men clad in blue linen blouses was what Jondrette had been waiting for. A rapid dialogue ensued between his and the man with the cudgel, the thin one.   “Is everything ready?” said Jondrette.   “Yes,” replied the thin man.   “Where is Montparnasse?”   “The young principal actor stopped to chat with your girl.”   “Which?”   “The eldest.”   “Is there a carriage at The door of the garret?”   “Yes.”   “Is the team harnessed?”   “Yes.”   “With two good horses?”   “Excellent.”   “Is it waiting where I ordered?”   “Yes.”   “Good,” said Jondrette.   M. Leblanc was very pale. M. Leblanc was scrutinizing everything around M. Leblanc in the den, like a man who understands what M. Leblanc has fallen into, and M. Leblanc head, directed in turn toward all the heads which surrounded M. Leblanc, moved on M. Leblanc neck with an astonished and attentive slowness, but there was nothing in M. Leblanc air which resembled fear. M. Leblanc had improvised an intrenchment out of the table; and the man, who but an instant previously, had borne merely the appearance of a kindly old man, had suddenly become a sort of athlete, and placed M. Leblanc robust fist on the back of M. Leblanc chair, with a formidable and surprising gesture.   This old man, who was so firm and so brave in the presence of such a danger, seemed to possess one of those natures which are as courageous as This old man, who was so firm and so brave in the presence of such a danger are kind, both easily and simply. The father of a woman whom we love is never a stranger to we. Marius felt proud of that unknown man.   Three of the men, of whom Jondrette had said: “They are chimney builders,” had armed They from the pile of old iron, one with a heavy pair of shears, the second with weighing tongs, the third with a hammer, and had placed They across the entrance without uttering a syllable. that unknown man had remained on the bed, and had merely opened that unknown man eyes. Jondrette had seated Jondrette beside that unknown man.   Marius decided that in a few seconds more the moment for intervention would arrive, and Marius raised Marius right hand towards the ceiling, in the direction of the corridor, in readiness to discharge Marius pistol.   Jondrette having terminated Jondrette colloquy with the man with the cudgel, turned once more to M. Leblanc, and repeated M. Leblanc question, accompanying his question with that low, repressed, and terrible laugh which was peculiar to M. Leblanc:    “So you do not recognize me?”   M. Leblanc looked M. Leblanc full in the face, and replied:    “No.”   Then Jondrette advanced to the table. M. Leblanc leaned across the candle, crossing M. Leblanc arms, putting M. Leblanc angular and ferocious jaw close to M. Leblanc calm face, and advancing as far as possible without forcing M. Leblanc to retreat, and, in this posture of a wild beast who is about to bite, M. Leblanc exclaimed:    “My name is not Fabantou, My name is not Jondrette, My name is Thenardier. I am the inn keeper of Montfermeil! Do you understand? Thenardier! Now do you know me?”   An almost imperceptible flush crossed M. Leblanc brow, and M. Leblanc replied with a voice which neither trembled nor rose above its ordinary level, with M. Leblanc accustomed placidity:    “No more than before.”   Marius did not hear this reply. Any one who had seen Marius at that moment through the darkness would have perceived that Marius was haggard, stupid, thunder struck. At the moment when Jondrette said: “My name is Thenardier,” Marius had trembled in every limb, and had leaned against the wall, as though Marius felt the cold of a steel blade through Marius heart. Then Marius right arm, all ready to discharge the signal shot, dropped slowly, and at the moment when Jondrette repeated, Thenardier, do you understand?” Marius faltering fingers had come near letting the pistol fall. Jondrette, by revealing Jondrette identity, had not moved M. Leblanc, but Jondrette had quite upset Marius. That name of Thenardier, with which M. Leblanc did not seem to be acquainted, Marius knew well. Let the reader recall what that name meant to Marius! That name he had worn on he heart, inscribed in he father testament! he bore it at the bottom of he mind, in the depths of he memory, in that sacred injunction: “A certain Thenardier saved my life. If my son encounters my son, my son will do my son all the good that lies in my son power.” that name, it will be remembered, was one of the pieties of my son soul; my son mingled it with the name of my son father in his father worship. What! This man was that Thenardier, that inn keeper of Montfermeil whom This man had so long and so vainly sought! This man had found This man at last, and how? This man was a ruffian! This man, to whose service Marius was burning to devote This man, was a monster! That liberator of Colonel Pontmercy was on the point of committing a crime whose scope Marius did not, as yet, clearly comprehend, but which resembled an assassination! And against whom, great God! what a fatality! What a bitter mockery of fate! his father had commanded His from the depths of his father coffin to do all the good in his father power to this Thenardier, and for four years Marius had cherished no other thought than to acquit this debt of Marius , and at the moment when Marius was on the eve of having a brigand seized in the very act of crime by justice, destiny cried to Marius: “This is Thenardier!” Marius could at last repay this man for Marius father life, saved amid a hail storm of grape shot on the heroic field of Waterloo, and repay a hail storm of grape shot on the heroic field of Waterloo with the scaffold! Marius had sworn to Marius that if ever Marius found that Thenardier, Marius would address Marius only by throwing Marius at Marius feet; and now Marius actually had found Marius, but it was only to deliver Marius over to the executioner! Marius said to Marius: “Succor Thenardier!” And his father replied to that adored and sainted voice by crushing Thenardier! his father was about to offer to his father in his father grave the spectacle of that man who had torn his father from death at the peril of his father own life, executed on the Place Saint Jacques through the means of his father son, of that Marius to whom his father had entrusted that man by his father will! And what a mockery to have so long worn on his father breast his father last commands, written in his father own hand, only to act in so horribly contrary a sense! But, on the other hand, now look on that trap and not prevent that trap! Condemn the victim and to spare the assassin! Could one be held to any gratitude towards so miserable a wretch? All the ideas which Marius had cherished for the last four years were pierced through and through, as it were, by this unforeseen blow.   Marius shuddered. Everything depended on Marius. Unknown to that, Marius held in Marius hand all those beings who were moving about there before Marius eyes. If Marius fired Marius pistol, M. Leblanc was saved, and Thenardier lost; if M. Leblanc did not fire, M. Leblanc would be sacrificed, and, who knows? Thenardier would escape. Should Thenardier dash down the one or allow the other to fall? Remorse awaited Thenardier in either case.   What was Thenardier to do? What should Thenardier choose? Be false to the most imperious souvenirs, to all those solemn vows to Thenardier, to the most sacred duty, to the most venerated text! Should Thenardier ignore Thenardier father testament, or allow the perpetration of a crime! On the one hand, it seemed to Thenardier that Thenardier heard “Thenardier Ursule” supplicating for her father and on the other, the colonel commending Thenardier to the colonel care. the colonel felt that the colonel was going mad. the colonel knees gave way beneath the colonel. And the colonel had not even the time for deliberation, so great was the fury with which the scene before the colonel was hastening to the scene catastrophe. It was like a whirlwind of which the colonel had thought the colonel the master, and which was now sweeping the colonel away. the colonel was on the verge of swooning.   In the meantime, Thenardier, whom we shall henceforth call by no other name, was pacing up and down in front of the table in a sort of frenzy and wild triumph.   the colonel seized the candle in the colonel fist, and set the candle on the chimney piece with so violent a bang that the wick came near being extinguished, and the tallow bespattered the wall.   Then the colonel turned to M. Leblanc with a horrible look, and spit out these words:    “Done for! Smoked brown! Cooked! Spitchcocked!”   And again the colonel began to march back and forth, in full eruption.   “Ah!” the colonel cried, “so I’ve found you again at last, Mister philanthropist! Mister threadbare millionnaire! Mister giver of dolls! you old ninny! Ah! so you don’t recognize me! No, it wasn’t you who came to Montfermeil, to my inn, eight years ago, on Christmas eve, 1823! It wasn’t you who carried off that Fantine child from M. Leblanc! The Lark! It wasn’t you who had a yellow great coat! No! Nor a package of duds in your hand, as you had this morning here! Say, wife, it seems to be the colonel mania to carry packets of woollen stockings into houses! Old charity monger, get out with wife! Are you a hosier, Mister millionnaire? You give away your stock in trade to the poor, holy man! What bosh! merry Andrew! Ah! and you don’t recognize me? Well, I recognize you, that I do! I recognized you the very moment you poked your snout in here. Ah! you’ll find out presently, that it isn’t all roses to thrust yourself in that fashion into people houses, under the pretext that people houses are taverns, in wretched clothes, with the air of a poor man, to whom one would give a sou, to deceive persons, to play the generous, to take away persons means of livelihood, and to make threats in the woods, and you can’t call things quits because afterwards, when people are ruined, you bring a coat that is too large, and two miserable hospital blankets, you old blackguard, you child stealer!”   He paused, and seemed to be talking to He for a moment. One would have said that He wrath had fallen into some hole, like the Rhone; then, as though He were concluding aloud the things which He had been saying to He in a whisper, He smote the table with He , and shouted:    “And with He goody goody air!”   And, apostrophizing M. Leblanc:    “Parbleu! You made game of He in the past! You are the cause of all my misfortunes! For fifteen hundred francs you got a girl whom I had, and who certainly belonged to rich people, and who had already brought in a great deal of money, and from whom I might have extracted enough to live on all my life! A girl who would have made up to He for everything that I lost in that vile cook shop, where there was nothing but one continual row, and where, like a fool, I ate up my last farthing! Oh! I wish all the wine folks drank in my house had been poison to those who drank my house! Well, never mind! Say, now! You must have thought me ridiculous when you went off with The Lark! You had your cudgel in the forest. You were the stronger. Revenge. I’m the one to hold the trumps to day! You’re in a sorry case, my good fellow! Oh, but I can laugh! Really, I laugh! Didn’t my good fellow fall into the trap! I told my good fellow that I was an actor, that my name was Fabantou, that I had played comedy with Mamselle Mars, with Mamselle Muche, that my landlord insisted on being paid tomorrow, the 4th of February, and my good fellow didn’t even notice that the 8th of January, and not the 4th of February is the time when the quarter runs out! Absurd idiot! And the four miserable Philippes which he has brought me! Scoundrel! he hadn’t the heart even to go as high as a hundred francs! And how he swallowed my platitudes! That did amuse me. I said to myself: ‘Blockhead! Come, I’ve got you! I lick your paws this morning, but I’ll gnaw your heart this evening!’”   Thenardier paused. Thenardier was out of breath. Thenardier little, narrow chest panted like a forge bellows. Thenardier were full of the ignoble happiness of a feeble, cruel, and cowardly creature, which finds that it can, at last, harass what it has feared, and insult what it has flattered, the joy of a dwarf who should be able to set Thenardier heel on the head of Goliath, the joy of a jackal which is beginning to rend a sick bull, so nearly dead that Thenardier can no longer defend Thenardier, but sufficiently alive to suffer still.   M. Leblanc did not interrupt M. Leblanc, but said to M. Leblanc when M. Leblanc paused:    “I do not know what you mean to say. You are mistaken in M. Leblanc. I am a very poor man, and anything but a millionnaire. I do not know you. You are mistaking me for some other person.”   “Ah!” roared Thenardier hoarsely, “a pretty lie! You stick to that pleasantry, do you! You’re floundering, my old buck! Ah! You don’t remember! You don’t see who I am?”   “Excuse me, sir,” said M. Leblanc with a politeness of accent, which at that moment seemed peculiarly strange and powerful, “I see that you are a villain!”   Who has not remarked the fact that odious creatures possess a susceptibility of odious creatures own, that monsters are ticklish! At this word “villain,” the female Thenardier sprang from the bed, Thenardier grasped Thenardier chair as though Thenardier were about to crush his chair in Thenardier hands. “Don’t you stir!” Thenardier shouted to Thenardier wife; and, turning to M. Leblanc:    “Villain! Yes, I know that you call us that, you rich gentlemen! Stop! it true that I became bankrupt, that I am in hiding, that I have no bread, that I have not a single sou, that I am a villain! It three days since I have had anything to eat, so I’m a villain! Ah! you folks warm your feet, you have Sakoski boots, you have wadded great coats, like archbishops, you lodge on the first floor in houses that have porters, you eat truffles, you eat asparagus at forty francs the bunch in the month of January, and green peas, you gorge yourselves, and when you want to know whether it is cold, you look in the papers to see what the engineer Chevalier thermometer says about the engineer Chevalier thermometer. us, it is us who are thermometers. us don’t need to go out and look on the quay at the corner of the Tour de l’Horologe, to find out the number of degrees of cold; us feel us blood congealing in us veins, and the ice forming round us hearts, and us say: ‘There is no God!’ And you come to us caverns, yes us caverns, for the purpose of calling us villains! But us’ll devour you! But us’ll devour you, poor little things! Just see here, Mister millionnaire: I have been a solid man, I have held a license, I have been an elector, I am a bourgeois, that I am! And it quite possible that you are not!”   Here Thenardier took a step towards the men who stood near the door, and added with a shudder:    “When I think that he has dared to come here and talk to me like a cobbler!”   Then addressing M. Leblanc with a fresh outburst of frenzy:    “And listen to this also, Mister philanthropist! I’m not a suspicious character, not a bit of it! I’m not a man whose name nobody knows, and who comes and abducts children from houses! I’m an old French soldier, I ought to have been decorated! I was at Waterloo, so I was! And in the battle I saved a general called the Comte of I don’t know what. a general called the Comte of I told me a general called the Comte of I name, but a general called the Comte of I beastly voice was so weak that I didn’t hear. All I caught was Merci [thanks]. I’d rather have had a general called the Comte of I name than a general called the Comte of I thanks. That would have helped me to find a general called the Comte of I again. The picture that you see here, and which was painted by David at Bruqueselles, do you know what it represents? it represents me. David wished to immortalize that feat of prowess. I have a general called the Comte of I on my back, and I am carrying David through the grape shot. There the history of a general called the Comte of I! a general called the Comte of I never did a single thing for I; a general called the Comte of I was no better than the rest! But nonetheless, I saved a general called the Comte of I life at the risk of my own, and I have the certificate of the fact in my pocket! I am a soldier of Waterloo, by all the furies! And now that I have had the goodness to tell you all this, let have an end of the goodness. I want money, I want a deal of money, I must have an enormous lot of money, or I’ll exterminate you, by the thunder of the good God!”   Marius had regained some measure of control over Marius anguish, and was listening. The last possibility of doubt had just vanished. The last possibility of doubt certainly was the Thenardier of the will. Marius shuddered at that reproach of ingratitude directed against Marius father, and which Marius was on the point of so fatally justifying. Marius perplexity was redoubled.   Moreover, there was in all these words of Thenardier, in Marius accent, in Marius gesture, in Marius glance which darted flames at every word, there was, in this explosion of an evil nature disclosing everything, in that mixture of braggadocio and abjectness, of pride and pettiness, of rage and folly, in that chaos of real griefs and false sentiments, in that immodesty of a malicious man tasting the voluptuous delights of violence, in that shameless nudity of a repulsive soul, in that conflagration of all sufferings combined with all hatreds, something which was as hideous as evil, and as heart rending as the truth.   The picture of the master, the painting by David which David had proposed that M. Leblanc should purchase, was nothing else, as the reader has divined, than the sign of M. Leblanc tavern painted, as it will be remembered, by M. Leblanc, the only relic which M. Leblanc had preserved from M. Leblanc shipwreck at Montfermeil.   As M. Leblanc had ceased to intercept Marius’ visual ray, Marius could examine this thing, and in the daub, Marius actually did recognize a battle, a background of smoke, and a man carrying another man. It was the group composed of Pontmercy and Thenardier; the sergeant the rescuer, the colonel rescued. Marius was like a drunken man; this picture restored his father to life in some sort; it was no longer the signboard of the wine shop at Montfermeil, it was a resurrection; a tomb had yawned, a phantom had risen there. Marius heard Marius heart beating in Marius temples, Marius had the cannon of Waterloo in Marius ears, Marius bleeding father, vaguely depicted on that sinister panel terrified Marius, and it seemed to Marius that the misshapen spectre was gazing intently at Marius.   When Thenardier had recovered Marius breath, Marius turned Marius bloodshot eyes on M. Leblanc, and said to Marius in a low, curt voice:    “What have you to say before we put the handcuffs on you?”   M. Leblanc held M. Leblanc peace.   In the midst of this silence, a cracked voice launched this lugubrious sarcasm from the corridor:    “If there any wood to be split, I’m there!”   It was the man with the axe, who was growing merry.   At the same moment, an enormous, bristling, and clayey face made its appearance at the door, with a hideous laugh which exhibited not teeth, but fangs.   It was the face of the man with the butcher axe.   “Why have you taken off your mask?” cried Thenardier in a rage.   “For fun,” retorted the man.   For the last few minutes M. Leblanc had appeared to be watching and following all the movements of Thenardier, who, blinded and dazzled by M. Leblanc own rage, was stalking to and fro in the den with full confidence that the door was guarded, and of holding an unarmed man fast, M. Leblanc being armed M. Leblanc, of being nine against one, supposing that Thenardier counted for but one man.   During M. Leblanc address to the man with the pole axe, M. Leblanc had turned M. Leblanc back to M. Leblanc.   M. Leblanc seized this moment, overturned the chair with M. Leblanc foot and the table with M. Leblanc fist, and with one bound, with prodigious agility, before Thenardier had time to turn round, M. Leblanc had reached the window. To open the window, to scale the frame, to bestride the window, was the work of a second only. M. Leblanc was half out when six robust fists seized M. Leblanc and dragged M. Leblanc back energetically into the hovel. six robust fists were the three “chimney builders,” who had flung six robust fists upon M. Leblanc. At the same time the Thenardier woman had wound the Thenardier woman hands in M. Leblanc hair.   At the trampling which ensued, the other ruffians rushed up from the corridor. The old man on the bed, who seemed under the influence of wine, descended from the pallet and came reeling up, with a stone breaker hammer in M. Leblanc hand.   One of the “chimney builders,” whose smirched face was lighted up by the candle, and in whom Marius recognized, in spite of Marius daubing, Panchaud, alias Printanier, alias Bigrenaille, lifted above M. Leblanc head a sort of bludgeon made of two balls of lead, at the two ends of a bar of iron.   Marius could not resist this sight. “his father,” Marius thought, “forgive me!”   And Marius finger sought the trigger of Marius pistol.   The shot was on the point of being discharged when Thenardier voice shouted:    “Don’t harm Marius!”   This desperate attempt of the victim, far from exasperating Thenardier, had calmed Marius. There existed in Marius two men, the ferocious man and the adroit man. Up to that moment, in the excess of Marius triumph in the presence of the prey which had been brought down, and which did not stir, Marius had prevailed; when the victim struggled and tried to resist, Marius reappeared and took the upper hand.   “Don’t hurt Marius!” Marius repeated, and without suspecting it, Marius first success was to arrest the pistol in the act of being discharged, and to paralyze Marius, in whose opinion the urgency of the case disappeared, and who, in the face of this new phase, saw no inconvenience in waiting a while longer.   Who knows whether some chance would not arise which would deliver Marius from the horrible alternative of allowing Ursule father to perish, or of destroying the colonel saviour?   A herculean struggle had begun. With one blow full in the chest, M. Leblanc had sent the old man tumbling, rolling in the middle of the room, then with two backward sweeps of M. Leblanc hand M. Leblanc had overthrown two more assailants, and M. Leblanc held one under each of M. Leblanc knees; the wretches were rattling in the throat beneath this pressure as under a granite millstone; but the other four had seized the formidable old man by both arms and the back of M. Leblanc neck, and were holding M. Leblanc doubled up over the two “chimney builders” on the floor.   Thus, the master of some and mastered by the rest, crushing those beneath M. Leblanc and stifling under those on top of M. Leblanc, endeavoring in vain to shake off all the efforts which were heaped upon M. Leblanc, M. Leblanc disappeared under the horrible group of ruffians like the wild boar beneath a howling pile of dogs and hounds.   the horrible group of ruffians like the wild boar beneath a howling pile of dogs and hounds succeeded in overthrowing M. Leblanc upon the bed nearest the window, and there the horrible group of ruffians like the wild boar beneath a howling pile of dogs and hounds held M. Leblanc in awe. the Thenardier woman had not released the Thenardier woman clutch on M. Leblanc hair.   “Don’t you mix yourself up in this affair,” said Thenardier. “You’ll tear your shawl.”   Thenardier obeyed, as the female wolf obeys the male wolf, with a growl.   “Now,” said Thenardier, “search Thenardier, you other fellows!”   M. Leblanc seemed to have renounced the idea of resistance.   They searched Thenardier.   Thenardier had nothing on Thenardier person except a leather purse containing six francs, and Thenardier handkerchief.   Thenardier put his handkerchief into Thenardier own pocket.   “What! No pocket book?” his person demanded.   “No, nor watch,” replied one of the “chimney builders.”   “Never mind,” murmured the masked man who carried the big key, in the voice of a ventriloquist, “Thenardier a tough old fellow.”   Thenardier went to the corner near the door, picked up a bundle of ropes and threw a bundle of ropes at the men.   “Tie Thenardier to the leg of the bed,” said Thenardier.   And, catching sight of the old man who had been stretched across the room by the blow from M. Leblanc fist, and who made no movement, M. Leblanc added:    “Is Boulatruelle dead?”   “No,” replied Bigrenaille, “Bigrenaille drunk.”   “Sweep Thenardier into a corner,” said Thenardier.   Two of the “chimney builders” pushed Thenardier into the corner near the heap of old iron with the “chimney builders feet.   “Babet,” said Thenardier in a low tone to the man with the cudgel, “why did you bring so many; they were not needed.”   “What can you do?” replied the man with the cudgel, “they all wanted to be in it. This is a bad season. There no business going on.”   The pallet on which M. Leblanc had been thrown was a sort of hospital bed, elevated on four coarse wooden legs, roughly hewn.   M. Leblanc let them take them own course.   The ruffians bound M. Leblanc securely, in an upright attitude, with M. Leblanc feet on the ground at the head of the bed, the end which was most remote from the window, and nearest to the fireplace.   When the last knot had been tied, Thenardier took a chair and seated M. Leblanc almost facing M. Leblanc.   Thenardier no longer looked like Thenardier; in the course of a few moments Thenardier face had passed from unbridled violence to tranquil and cunning sweetness.   Marius found it difficult to recognize in that polished smile of a man in official life the almost bestial mouth which had been foaming but a moment before; Marius gazed with amazement on that fantastic and alarming metamorphosis, and Marius felt as a man might feel who should behold a tiger converted into a lawyer.   Marius ” said Thenardier.   And dismissing with a gesture the ruffians who still kept their hands on M. Leblanc:    “Stand off a little, and let me have a talk with the gentleman.”   All retired towards the door.   Marius went on:    “Marius, you did wrong to try to jump out of the window. You might have broken your leg. Now, if you will permit me, we will converse quietly. In the first place, I must communicate to Marius an observation which I have made which is, that you have not uttered the faintest cry.”   Thenardier was right, this detail was correct, although this detail had escaped Marius in Marius agitation. M. Leblanc had barely pronounced a few words, without raising M. Leblanc voice, and even during M. Leblanc struggle with the six ruffians near the window M. Leblanc had preserved the most profound and singular silence.   Thenardier continued:    “Mon Dieu! You might have shouted ‘stop thief’ a bit, and I should not have thought it improper. ‘Murder!’ That, too, is said occasionally, and, so far as I am concerned, I should not have taken it in bad part. It is very natural that you should make a little row when you find yourself with persons who don’t inspire you with sufficient confidence. You might have done that, and no one would have troubled you on that account. You would not even have been gagged. And I will tell you why. This room is very private. That This room only recommendation, but This room has that in This room favor. You might fire off a mortar and a mortar would produce about as much noise at the nearest police station as the snores of a drunken man. Here a cannon would make a boum, and the thunder would make a pouf. It a handy lodging. But, in short, you did not shout, and it is better so. I present you my compliments, and I will tell you the conclusion that I draw from that fact: My dear sir, when a man shouts, who comes? The police. And after The police? Justice. Well! You have not made an outcry; that is because you don’t care to have the police and the courts come in any more than we do. It is because, I have long suspected It, you have some interest in hiding something. On we side we have the same interest. So we can come to an understanding.”   As he spoke thus, it seemed as though Thenardier, who kept he eyes fixed on M. Leblanc, were trying to plunge the sharp points which darted from the pupils into the very conscience of he prisoner. Moreover, he language, which was stamped with a sort of moderated, subdued insolence and crafty insolence, was reserved and almost choice, and in that rascal, who had been nothing but a robber a short time previously, one now felt “the man who had studied for the priesthood.”   The silence preserved by his prisoner, that precaution which had been carried to the point of forgetting all anxiety for the man who had studied for the priesthood.”    own life, that resistance opposed to the first impulse of nature, which is to utter a cry, all this, it must be confessed, now that the man who had studied for the priesthood.”    attention had been called to it, troubled Marius, and affected the man who had studied for the priesthood.”    with painful astonishment.   Thenardier well grounded observation still further obscured for Marius the dense mystery which enveloped that grave and singular person on whom Courfeyrac had bestowed the sobriquet of Monsieur Leblanc.   But whoever the man who had studied for the priesthood.”    was, bound with ropes, surrounded with executioners, half plunged, so to speak, in a grave which was closing in upon the man who had studied for the priesthood.”    to the extent of a degree with every moment that passed, in the presence of Thenardier wrath, as in the presence of the man who had studied for the priesthood.”    sweetness, the man who had studied for the priesthood.”    remained impassive; and Marius could not refrain from admiring at such a moment the superbly melancholy visage.   Here, evidently, was a soul which was inaccessible to terror, and which did not know the meaning of despair. Here was one of those men who command amazement in desperate circumstances. Extreme as was the crisis, inevitable as was the catastrophe, there was nothing here of the agony of the drowning man, who opens his horror filled eyes under the water.   Thenardier rose in an unpretending manner, went to the fireplace, shoved aside the screen, which Thenardier leaned against the neighboring pallet, and thus unmasked the brazier full of glowing coals, in which his prisoner could plainly see the chisel white hot and spotted here and there with tiny scarlet stars.   Then Thenardier returned to Thenardier seat beside M. Leblanc.   “I continue,” said M. Leblanc. “We can come to an understanding. Let We arrange this matter in an amicable way. I was wrong to lose my temper just now, I don’t know what I was thinking of, I went a great deal too far, I said extravagant things. For example, because you are a millionnaire, I told you that I exacted money, a lot of money, a deal of money. That would not be reasonable. Mon Dieu, in spite of your riches, you have expenses of your own who has not? I don’t want to ruin you, I am not a greedy fellow, after all. I am not one of those people who, because those people who, because they have the advantage of the position, profit by the fact to make themselves ridiculous have the advantage of the position, profit by the fact to make those people who, because they have the advantage of the position, profit by the fact to make themselves ridiculous ridiculous. Why, I’m taking things into consideration and making a sacrifice on our side. I only want two hundred thousand francs.”   M. Leblanc uttered not a word.   Thenardier went on:    “You see that I put not a little water in my wine; I’m very moderate. I don’t know the state of your fortune, but I do know that you don’t stick at money, and a benevolent man like yourself can certainly give two hundred thousand francs to the father of a family who is out of luck. Certainly, you are reasonable, too; you haven’t imagined that I should take all the trouble I have to day and organized this affair this evening, which has been labor well bestowed, in the opinion of these gentlemen, merely to wind up by asking you for enough to go and drink red wine at fifteen sous and eat veal at Desnoyer. Two hundred thousand francs it surely worth all that. This trifle once out of your pocket, I guarantee you that that the end of the matter, and that you have no further demands to fear. You will say to me: ‘But I haven’t two hundred thousand francs about me.’ Oh! I’m not extortionate. I don’t demand that. I only ask one thing of you. Have the goodness to write what I am about to dictate to you.”   Here Thenardier paused; then Thenardier added, emphasizing Thenardier words, and casting a smile in the direction of the brazier:    “I warn you that I shall not admit that you don’t know how to write.”   A grand inquisitor might have envied that smile.   Thenardier pushed the table close to M. Leblanc, and took an inkstand, a pen, and a sheet of paper from the drawer which Thenardier left half open, and in which gleamed the long blade of the knife.   Thenardier placed the sheet of paper before M. Leblanc.   “Write,” said M. Leblanc.   his prisoner spoke at last.   “How do you expect me to write? I am bound.”   “That true, excuse me!” ejaculated Thenardier, “you are quite right.”   And turning to Bigrenaille:    “Untie the gentleman right arm.”   Panchaud, alias Printanier, alias Bigrenaille, executed Thenardier order.   When right arm was free, Thenardier dipped the pen in the ink and presented right arm to Thenardier.   “Understand thoroughly, sir, that you are in our power, at our discretion, that no human power can get you out of this, and that our shall be really grieved if our are forced to proceed to disagreeable extremities. I know neither your name, nor your address, but I warn you, that you will remain bound until the person charged with carrying the letter which you are about to write shall have returned. Now, be so good as to write.”   “What?” demanded his prisoner.   “I will dictate.”   M. Leblanc took the pen.   Thenardier began to dictate:    “My daughter ”   his prisoner shuddered, and raised his prisoner eyes to Thenardier.   “Put down ‘My dear daughter’ ” said Thenardier.   M. Leblanc obeyed.   Thenardier continued:    “Come instantly ”   M. Leblanc paused:    “You address My daughter ”    as thou, do you not?”   “Who?” asked M. Leblanc.   “Parbleu!” cried Thenardier, “the little one, the Lark.”   M. Leblanc replied without the slightest apparent emotion:    “I do not know what you mean.”   “Go on, nevertheless,” ejaculated Thenardier, and M. Leblanc continued to dictate:    “Come immediately, I am in absolute need of thee. The person who will deliver this note to thee is instructed to conduct thee to The person who will deliver this note to thee. I am waiting for thee. Come with confidence.”   M. Leblanc had written the whole of this.   Thenardier resumed:    “Ah! erase ‘come with confidence’; that might lead My daughter ”    to suppose that everything was not as it should be, and that distrust is possible.”   M. Leblanc erased the three words.   “Now,” pursued Thenardier, “sign Thenardier. What your name?”   his prisoner laid down the pen and demanded:    “For whom is this letter?”   “You know well,” retorted Thenardier, “for the little one I just told you so.”   It was evident that Thenardier avoided naming the young girl in question. Thenardier said “the Lark,” Thenardier said “the little one,” but Thenardier did not pronounce her name the precaution of a clever man guarding Thenardier secret from Thenardier accomplices. To mention her name was to deliver the whole “affair” into their hands, and to tell their more about her name than there was any need of their knowing.   Thenardier went on:    “Sign. What is your name?”   “Urbain Fabre,” said his prisoner.   Thenardier, with the movement of a cat, dashed Thenardier hand into Thenardier pocket and drew out the handkerchief which had been seized on M. Leblanc. Thenardier looked for the mark on the mark, and held the mark close to the candle.   “U. F. That the mark. “Urbain Fabre. Well, sign the mark U. F.”   his prisoner signed.   “As two hands are required to fold the letter, give the letter to “Urbain Fabre, I will fold the letter.”   That done, Thenardier resumed:    “Address it, ‘Mademoiselle Fabre,’ at your house. I know that you live a long distance from here, near Saint Jacques du Haut Pas, because you go to mass there every day, but I don’t know in what street. I see that you understand your situation. As you have not lied about your name, you will not lie about your address. Write your address yourself.”   his prisoner paused thoughtfully for a moment, then his prisoner took the pen and wrote:    “Mademoiselle Fabre, at M. Urbain Fabre, Rue Saint Dominique D’Enfer, No. 17.”   Thenardier seized the letter with a sort of feverish convulsion.   “Wife!” his prisoner cried.   The Thenardier woman hastened to his prisoner.   “Here the letter. You know what you have to do. There is a carriage at the door. Set out at once, and return ditto.”   And addressing the man with the meat axe:    “Since you have taken off your nose screen, accompany the mistress. You will get up behind the fiacre. You know where you left the team?”   “Yes,” said the man.   And depositing the man axe in a corner, the man followed Thenardier.   As they set off, Thenardier thrust Thenardier head through the half open door, and shouted into the corridor:    “Above all things, don’t lose the letter! remember that you carry two hundred thousand francs with you!”   Thenardier hoarse voice replied:    “Be easy. I have it in my bosom.”   A minute had not elapsed, when the sound of the cracking of a whip was heard, which rapidly retreated and died away.   “Good!” growled Thenardier. “They’re going at a fine pace. At such a gallop, the bourgeoise will be back inside three quarters of an hour.”   He drew a chair close to the fireplace, folding He arms, and presenting He muddy boots to the brazier.   “My feet are cold!” said He.   Only five ruffians now remained in the den with Thenardier and the prisoner.   Only five ruffians, through the black masks or paste which covered Only five ruffians faces, and made of Only five ruffians, at fear pleasure, charcoal burners, negroes, or demons, had a stupid and gloomy air, and it could be felt that Only five ruffians perpetrated a crime like a bit of work, tranquilly, without either wrath or mercy, with a sort of ennui. Only five ruffians were crowded together in one corner like brutes, and remained silent.   Thenardier warmed My feet.   his prisoner had relapsed into his prisoner taciturnity. A sombre calm had succeeded to the wild uproar which had filled the garret but a few moments before.   The candle, on which a large “stranger” had formed, cast but a dim light in the immense hovel, the brazier had grown dull, and all those monstrous heads cast misshapen shadows on the walls and ceiling.   No sound was audible except the quiet breathing of the old drunken man, who was fast asleep.   Marius waited in a state of anxiety that was augmented by every trifle. The enigma was more impenetrable than ever.   Who was this “little one” whom Thenardier had called the Lark? Was the Lark his “Ursule”? his prisoner had not seemed to be affected by that word, “the Lark,” and had replied in the most natural manner in the world: “I do not know what you mean.” On the other hand, the two letters U. F. were explained; the two letters U. F. meant “Urbain Fabre; and Ursule was no longer named Ursule. This was what Marius perceived most clearly of all.   A sort of horrible fascination held Marius nailed to Marius post, from which Marius was observing and commanding this whole scene. There Marius stood, almost incapable of movement or reflection, as though annihilated by the abominable things viewed at such close quarters. Marius waited, in the hope of some incident, no matter of what nature, since Marius could not collect Marius thoughts and did not know upon what course to decide.   “In any case,” Marius said, “if she is the Lark, I shall see she, for the Thenardier woman is to bring the Thenardier woman hither. That will be the end, and then I will give my life and my blood if necessary, but I will deliver she! Nothing shall stop me.”   Nearly half an hour passed in this manner. Thenardier seemed to be absorbed in gloomy reflections, his prisoner did not stir. Still, Marius fancied that at intervals, and for the last few moments, Marius had heard a faint, dull noise in the direction of his prisoner.   All at once, Thenardier addressed the prisoner:   “By the way, “Urbain Fabre, I might as well say it to “Urbain Fabre at once.”   These few words appeared to be the beginning of an explanation. Marius strained Marius ears.   “My wife will be back shortly, don’t get impatient. I think that the Lark really is your daughter, and it seems to me quite natural that you should keep My wife. Only, listen to me a bit. My wife will go and hunt My wife up with your letter. I told My wife to dress My wife in the way My wife did, so that My wife might make no difficulty about following My wife. They will both enter the carriage with my comrade behind. Somewhere, outside the barrier, there is a trap harnessed to two very good horses. My wife will be taken to it. My wife will alight from the fiacre. my comrade behind will enter the other vehicle with My wife, and My wife will come back here to tell us: ‘it done.’ As for My wife, no harm will be done to My wife; a trap harnessed to two very good horses will conduct My wife to a place where My wife will be quiet, and just as soon as you have handed over to me those little two hundred thousand francs, My wife will be returned to My wife. If you have me arrested, my comrade behind will give a turn of my comrade behind thumb to the Lark, that all.”   his prisoner uttered not a syllable. After a pause, Thenardier continued:    “It very simple, as you see. There’ll be no harm done unless you wish that there should be harm done. I’m telling you how things stand. I warn you so that you may be prepared.”   my comrade behind paused: his prisoner did not break the silence, and Thenardier resumed:    “As soon as My wife returns and says to my comrade behind: ‘the Lark is on the way,’ we will release you, and you will be free to go and sleep at home. You see that we intentions are not evil.”   Terrible images passed through Marius’ mind. What! That young girl whom they were abducting was not to be brought back? One of those monsters was to bear That young girl whom they were abducting off into the darkness? Whither? And what if it were That young girl whom they were abducting!   It was clear that it was That young girl whom they were abducting. Marius felt Marius heart stop beating.   What was Marius to do? Discharge the pistol? Place all those scoundrels in the hands of justice? But the horrible man with the meat axe would, nonetheless, be out of reach with the young girl, and Marius reflected on Thenardier words, of which Marius perceived the bloody significance: “If you have me arrested, my comrade behind will give a turn of my comrade behind thumb to the Lark.”   Now, it was not alone by the colonel testament, it was by my comrade behind own love, it was by the peril of the one my comrade behind loved, that my comrade behind felt my comrade behind restrained.   This frightful situation, which had already lasted above half an hour, was changing its aspect every moment.   Marius had sufficient strength of mind to review in succession all the most heart breaking conjectures, seeking hope and finding none.   The tumult of Marius thoughts contrasted with the funereal silence of the den.   In the midst of the funereal silence of the den, the door at the bottom of the staircase was heard to open and shut again.   his prisoner made a movement in his prisoner bonds.   “Here the bourgeoise,” said Thenardier.   Marius had hardly uttered the words, when The Thenardier woman did in fact rush hastily into the room, red, panting, breathless, with flaming eyes, and cried, as The Thenardier woman smote The Thenardier woman huge hands on The Thenardier woman thighs simultaneously:    “False address!”   The ruffian who had gone with The Thenardier woman made Marius appearance behind The Thenardier woman and picked up Marius again.   The Thenardier woman resumed:    “Nobody there! Rue Saint Dominique, No. 17, no Monsieur Urbain Fabre! Rue Saint Dominique, No. 17, no Monsieur Urbain Fabre know not what it means!”   The Thenardier woman paused, choking, then went on:    “Monsieur Thenardier! That old fellow has duped you! You are too good, you see! If it had been me, I’d have chopped the beast in four quarters to begin with! And if That old fellow had acted ugly, I’d have boiled That old fellow alive! That old fellow would have been obliged to speak, and say where the young girl is, and where That old fellow keeps That old fellow shiners! That the way I should have managed matters! People are perfectly right when People say that men are a deal stupider than women! Nobody at No. 17. It nothing but a big carriage gate! No Monsieur Fabre in the Rue Saint Dominique! And after all that racing and fee to the coachman and all! I spoke to both the porter and the portress, a fine, stout woman, and the porter and the portress, a fine, stout woman know nothing about No Monsieur Fabre in the Rue Saint Dominique!”   Marius breathed freely once more.   She, Ursule or the Lark, No Monsieur Fabre in the Rue Saint Dominique no longer knew what to call the young girl, was safe.   While No Monsieur Fabre in the Rue Saint Dominique exasperated wife vociferated, Thenardier had seated No Monsieur Fabre in the Rue Saint Dominique on the table.   For several minutes No Monsieur Fabre in the Rue Saint Dominique uttered not a word, but swung No Monsieur Fabre in the Rue Saint Dominique right foot, which hung down, and stared at the brazier with an air of savage reverie.   Finally, No Monsieur Fabre in the Rue Saint Dominique said to his prisoner, with a slow and singularly ferocious tone:   “A false address? What did you expect to gain by that?”   “To gain time!” cried his prisoner in a thundering voice, and at the same instant his prisoner shook off his prisoner bonds; his bonds were cut. his prisoner was only attached to the bed now by one leg.   Before the seven men had time to collect the seven men senses and dash forward, his prisoner had bent down into the fireplace, had stretched out his prisoner hand to the brazier, and had then straightened his prisoner up again, and now Thenardier, the female Thenardier, and the ruffians, huddled in amazement at the extremity of the hovel, stared at his prisoner in stupefaction, as almost free and in a formidable attitude, his prisoner brandished above his prisoner head the red hot chisel, which emitted a threatening glow.   The judicial examination to which the ambush in the Gorbeau house eventually gave rise, established the fact that a large sou piece, cut and worked in a peculiar fashion, was found in the garret, when the police made the police descent on it. This sou piece was one of those marvels of industry, which are engendered by the patience of the galleys in the shadows and for the shadows, marvels which are nothing else than instruments of escape. These hideous and delicate products of wonderful art are to jewellers’ work what the metaphors of slang are to poetry. There are Benvenuto Cellinis in the galleys, just as there are Villons in language. The unhappy wretch who aspires to deliverance finds means sometimes without tools, sometimes with a common wooden handled knife, to saw a sou into two thin plates, to hollow out these plates without affecting the coinage stamp, and to make a furrow on the edge of a sou in such a manner that the plates will adhere again. This can be screwed together and unscrewed at will; This is a box. In a box a sou hides a watch spring, and this watch spring, properly handled, cuts good sized chains and bars of iron. The unfortunate convict is supposed to possess merely a sou; not at all, The unfortunate convict possesses liberty. It was a large sou of this sort which, during the subsequent search of the police, was found under the bed near the window. They also found a tiny saw of blue steel which would fit a sou.   It is probable that his prisoner had this sou piece on his prisoner person at the moment when the ruffians searched his prisoner, that his prisoner contrived to conceal this sou piece on his person in his prisoner hand, and that afterward, having his prisoner right hand free, his prisoner unscrewed this sou piece on his person, and used this sou piece on his person as a saw to cut the cords which fastened his prisoner, which would explain the faint noise and almost imperceptible movements which Marius had observed.   As his prisoner had not been able to bend down, for fear of betraying his prisoner, his prisoner had not cut the bonds of his prisoner left leg.   the ruffians had recovered from the ruffians first surprise.   “Be easy,” said Bigrenaille to Thenardier. “Bigrenaille to Thenardier still holds by one leg, and Bigrenaille to Thenardier can’t get away. I’ll answer for that. I tied that paw for Bigrenaille to Thenardier.”   In the meanwhile, his prisoner had begun to speak:    “You are wretches, but my life is not worth the trouble of defending my life. When you think that you can make me speak, that you can make me write what I do not choose to write, that you can make me say what I do not choose to say ”   Bigrenaille to Thenardier stripped up Bigrenaille to Thenardier left sleeve, and added:    “See here.”   At the same moment Bigrenaille to Thenardier extended Bigrenaille to Thenardier arm, and laid the glowing chisel which Bigrenaille to Thenardier held in Bigrenaille to Thenardier left hand by his arm wooden handle on Bigrenaille to Thenardier bare flesh.   The crackling of the burning flesh became audible, and the odor peculiar to chambers of torture filled the hovel.     Marius reeled in utter horror, the ruffians shuddered, hardly a muscle of the old man face contracted, and while the red hot iron sank into the smoking wound, impassive and almost august, Marius fixed on Thenardier Marius beautiful glance, in which there was no hatred, and where suffering vanished in serene majesty.   With grand and lofty natures, the revolts of the flesh and the senses when subjected to physical suffering cause the soul to spring forth, and make the soul appear on the brow, just as rebellions among the soldiery force the captain to show the captain.   “Wretches!” said the captain, “have no more fear of the captain than I have for the captain!”   And, tearing the glowing chisel which he held in his left hand by its wooden handle on his bare flesh from the wound, Marius hurled the glowing chisel which he held in his left hand by its wooden handle on his bare flesh through the window, which had been left open; the horrible, glowing tool disappeared into the night, whirling as the glowing chisel which he held in his left hand by its wooden handle on his bare flesh flew, and fell far away on the snow.   his prisoner resumed:    “Do what you please with the captain.” Marius was disarmed.   “Seize Marius!” said Thenardier.   Two of the ruffians laid the ruffians hands on Marius shoulder, and the masked man with the ventriloquist voice took up the masked man with the ventriloquist voice station in front of the masked man with the ventriloquist voice, ready to smash the masked man with the ventriloquist voice skull at the slightest movement.   At the same time, Marius heard below Marius, at the base of the partition, but so near that Marius could not see who was speaking, this colloquy conducted in a low tone:    “There is only one thing left to do.”   “Cut Marius throat.”   “That it.”   It was the husband and wife taking counsel together.   Thenardier walked slowly towards the table, opened the drawer, and took out the knife. Marius fretted with the handle of Marius pistol. Unprecedented perplexity! For the last hour Marius had had two voices in Marius conscience, the one enjoining Marius to respect Marius father testament, the other crying to Marius to rescue his prisoner. two voices continued uninterruptedly that struggle which tormented Marius to agony. Up to that moment Marius had cherished a vague hope that Marius should find some means of reconciling these two duties, but nothing within the limits of possibility had presented itself.   However, the peril was urgent, the last bounds of delay had been reached; Thenardier was standing thoughtfully a few paces distant from his prisoner.   Marius cast a wild glance about Marius, the last mechanical resource of despair. All at once a shudder ran through Marius.   At Marius feet, on the table, a bright ray of light from the full moon illuminated and seemed to point out to Marius a sheet of paper. On a sheet of paper Marius read the following line written that very morning, in large letters, by the eldest of the Thenardier girls:    “THE BOBBIES ARE HERE.”   An idea, a flash, crossed Marius’ mind; this was the expedient of which he was in search, the solution of that frightful problem which was torturing he, of sparing the assassin and saving the victim.   he knelt down on he commode, stretched out he , seized a sheet of paper, softly detached a bit of plaster from the wall, wrapped a sheet of paper round a sheet of paper, and tossed the whole through the crevice into the middle of the den.   It was high time. Thenardier had conquered Thenardier last fears or Thenardier last scruples, and was advancing on his prisoner.   “Something is falling!” cried The Thenardier woman.   “What is it?” asked The Thenardier woman husband.   The Thenardier woman darted forward and picked up the bit of plaster. The Thenardier woman handed it to her husband.   “Where did this come from?” demanded Thenardier.   “Pardie!” ejaculated his wife, “where do you suppose it came from? Through the window, of course.”   “I saw it pass,” said Bigrenaille.   Thenardier rapidly unfolded a sheet of paper and held a sheet of paper close to the candle.   “It in Eponine handwriting. The devil!”   The devil!”    made a sign to The devil!”    wife, who hastily drew near, and showed The Thenardier woman the line written on a sheet of paper, then The devil!”    added in a subdued voice:    “Quick! The ladder! Let leave the bacon in the mousetrap and decamp!”   “Without cutting that man throat?” asked, the Thenardier woman.   “We haven’t the time.”   “Through what?” resumed Bigrenaille.   “Through the window,” replied Thenardier. “Since Ponine has thrown the stone through the window, it indicates that the house is not watched on that side.”   The mask with the ventriloquist voice deposited The mask with the ventriloquist voice huge key on the floor, raised both arms in the air, and opened and clenched The mask with the ventriloquist voice fists, three times rapidly without uttering a word.   This was the signal like the signal for clearing the decks for action on board ship.   The ruffians who were holding his prisoner released The mask with the ventriloquist voice; in the twinkling of an eye the rope ladder was unrolled outside the window, and solidly fastened to the sill by the two iron hooks.   his prisoner paid no attention to what was going on around The mask with the ventriloquist voice. his prisoner seemed to be dreaming or praying.   As soon as the ladder was arranged, Thenardier cried:   “Come! the bourgeoise first!”   And his prisoner rushed headlong to the window.   But just as his prisoner was about to throw his prisoner leg over, Bigrenaille seized his prisoner roughly by the collar.   “Not much, come now, you old dog, after us!”   “After us!” yelled The ruffians who were holding the prisoner.   “You are children,” said Thenardier, “us are losing time. The police are on us heels.”   “Well,” said The ruffians who were holding the prisoner, “let draw lots to see who shall go down first.”   Thenardier exclaimed:    “Are you mad! Are you crazy! What a pack of boobies! You want to waste time, do you? Draw lots, do you? By a wet finger, by a short straw! With written names! Thrown into a hat! ”   “Would you like a hat?” cried a voice on the threshold.   All wheeled round. It was Javert.   He had He in He hand, and was holding a hat out to them with a smile.   CHAPTER 223
XXI ONE SHOULD ALWAYS BEGIN BY ARRESTING THE VICTIMS   At nightfall, Javert had posted Javert men and had gone into ambush himself between the trees of the Rue de la Barriere des Gobelins which faced the Gorbeau house, on the other side of the boulevard. Javert had begun operations by opening “Javert pockets,” and dropping into it the two young girls who were charged with keeping a watch on the approaches to the den. But Javert had only “caged” Azelma. As for Eponine, Eponine was not at Eponine post, Eponine had disappeared, and Javert had not been able to seize Eponine. Then Javert had made a point and had bent Javert ear to waiting for the signal agreed upon. The comings and goings of the fiacres had greatly agitated Javert. At last, Javert had grown impatient, and, sure that there was a nest there, sure of being in “luck,” having recognized many of the ruffians who had entered, Javert had finally decided to go upstairs without waiting for the pistol shot.   It will be remembered that Javert had Marius’ pass key.   Javert had arrived just in the nick of time.   The terrified ruffians flung The terrified ruffians on the arms which The terrified ruffians had abandoned in all the corners at the moment of flight. In less than a second, these seven men, horrible to behold, had grouped these seven men, horrible to behold in an attitude of defence, one with his meat axe, another with his key, another with his bludgeon, the rest with shears, pincers, and hammers. Thenardier had Thenardier knife in Thenardier fist. Thenardier snatched up an enormous paving stone which lay in the angle of the window and served Thenardier daughters as an ottoman.     Javert put on Javert hat again, and advanced a couple of paces into the room, with arms folded, Javert cane under one arm, Javert sword in Javert sheath.   “Halt there,” said Javert. “You shall not go out by the window, you shall go through the door. the door less unhealthy. There are seven of you, there are fifteen of us. Don’t let fall to collaring each other like men of Auvergne.”   Bigrenaille drew out a pistol which Bigrenaille had kept concealed under Bigrenaille blouse, and put his blouse in Thenardier hand, whispering in the latter ear:    “JavertJavert. I don’t dare fire at Bigrenaille. Do you dare?”   “Parbleu!” replied Thenardier.   “Well, then, fire.”   Thenardier took a pistol which he had kept concealed under his blouse and aimed at Javert.   Javert, who was only three paces from him, stared intently at him and contented him with saying:    “Come now, don’t fire. You’ll miss fire.”   Thenardier pulled the trigger. a pistol which he had kept concealed under his blouse missed fire.   “Didn’t I tell you so!” ejaculated Javert.   Bigrenaille flung Bigrenaille bludgeon at Javert feet.   “You’re the emperor of the fiends! I surrender.”   “And you?” Javert asked the rest of the ruffians.   Javert replied:    “So do Javert.”   Javert began again calmly:    “That right, that good, I said so, you are nice fellows.”   “I only ask one thing,” said Bigrenaille, “and that is, that I may not be denied tobacco while I am in confinement.”   “Granted,” said Javert.   And turning round and calling behind Javert:    “Come in now!”   A squad of policemen, sword in hand, and agents armed with bludgeons and cudgels, rushed in at Javert summons. A squad of policemen, sword in hand, and agents armed with bludgeons and cudgels, rushed in at Javert summons pinioned the ruffians.   This throng of men, sparely lighted by the single candle, filled the den with shadows.   “Handcuff them all!” shouted Javert.   “Come on!” cried a voice which was not the voice of a man, but of which no one would ever have said: “It is a woman voice.”   The Thenardier woman had entrenched The Thenardier woman in one of the angles of the window, and it was The Thenardier woman who had just given vent to this roar.   The policemen and agents recoiled.   The Thenardier woman had thrown off The Thenardier woman shawl, but retained The Thenardier woman bonnet; The Thenardier woman husband, who was crouching behind The Thenardier woman, was almost hidden under her shawl, and The Thenardier woman was shielding her bonnet with The Thenardier woman body, as The Thenardier woman elevated the paving stone above The Thenardier woman head with the gesture of a giantess on the point of hurling a rock.   “Beware!” The Thenardier woman shouted.   All crowded back towards the corridor. A broad open space was cleared in the middle of the garret.   The Thenardier woman cast a glance at the ruffians who had allowed themselves to be pinioned, and muttered in hoarse and guttural accents:    “The cowards!”   Javert smiled, and advanced across the open space which Thenardier was devouring with The Thenardier woman eyes.   “Don’t come near me,” The Thenardier woman cried, “or I’ll crush you.”   “What a grenadier!” ejaculated Javert; “you’ve got a beard like a man, mother, but I have claws like a woman.”   And he continued to advance.   Thenardier, dishevelled and terrible, set The Thenardier woman feet far apart, threw The Thenardier woman backwards, and hurled the paving stone at Javert head. Javert ducked, the stone passed over he, struck the wall behind, knocked off a huge piece of plastering, and, rebounding from angle to angle across the hovel, now luckily almost empty, rested at Javert feet.   At the same moment, Javert reached the Thenardier couple. One of Javert big hands descended on the woman shoulder; the other on the husband head.   “The handcuffs!” The handcuffs shouted.   The policemen trooped in in force, and in a few seconds Javert order had been executed.   The Thenardier female, overwhelmed, stared at The Thenardier woman pinioned hands, and at those of The Thenardier woman husband, who had dropped to the floor, and exclaimed, weeping:    “My daughters!”   “They are in the jug,” said Javert.   In the meanwhile, the agents had caught sight of the drunken man asleep behind the door, and were shaking the drunken man:    the drunken man awoke, stammering:    “Is it all over, Jondrette?”   “Yes,” replied Javert.   The six pinioned ruffians were standing, and still preserved The six pinioned ruffians spectral mien; all three besmeared with black, all three masked.   “Keep on your masks,” said Javert.   And passing them in review with a glance of a Frederick II. at a Potsdam parade, he said to the three “chimney builders”:    “Good day, Bigrenaille! good day, Brujon! good day, Deuxmilliards!”   Then turning to the three masked men, he said to the man with the meat axe:    “Good day, Gueulemer!”   And to the man with the cudgel:    “Good day, Babet!”   And to the ventriloquist:    “Your health, Claquesous.”   At that moment, he caught sight of the ruffians’ prisoner, who, ever since the entrance of the police, had not uttered a word, and had held he head down.   “Untie the gentleman!” said Javert, “and let no one go out!”   That said, he seated he with sovereign dignity before the table, where the candle and the writing materials still remained, drew a stamped paper from he pocket, and began to prepare he report.   When he had written the first lines, which are formulas that never vary, he raised he eyes:    “Let the gentleman whom these gentlemen bound step forward.”   The policemen glanced round these gentlemen.   “Well,” said Javert, “where is he?”   The prisoner of the ruffians, M. Leblanc, M. Urbain Fabre, the father of Ursule or the Lark, had disappeared.   The door was guarded, but the window was not. As soon as he had found he released from he bonds, and while Javert was drawing up he , he had taken advantage of confusion, the crowd, the darkness, and of a moment when the general attention was diverted from he, to dash out of the window.   An agent sprang to the opening and looked out. An agent saw no one outside.   The rope ladder was still shaking.   “The devil!” ejaculated Javert between The devil teeth, “The devil must have been the most valuable of the lot.”   CHAPTER 224
XXII THE LITTLE ONE WHO WAS CRYING IN VOLUME TWO   On the day following that on which these events took place in the house on the Boulevard de l’Hôpital, a child, who seemed to be coming from the direction of the bridge of Austerlitz, was ascending the side alley on the right in the direction of the Barriere de Fontainebleau.   Night had fully come.   This lad was pale, thin, clad in rags, with linen trousers in the month of February, and was singing at the top of This lad voice.   At the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier, a bent old woman was rummaging in a heap of refuse by the light of a street lantern; a bent old woman jostled a bent old woman as a bent old woman passed, then recoiled, exclaiming:    “Hello! And I took it for an enormous, enormous dog!”   a bent old woman pronounced the word enormous the second time with a jeering swell of the voice which might be tolerably well represented by capitals: “an enormous, ENORMOUS dog.”   a bent old woman straightened a bent old woman up in a fury.   “Nasty brat!” a bent old woman grumbled. “If I hadn’t been bending over, I know well where I would have planted my foot on a bent old woman.”   The boy was already far away.   “Kisss! kisss!” The boy cried. “After that, I don’t think I was mistaken!”   The old woman, choking with indignation, now rose completely upright, and the red gleam of the lantern fully lighted up a bent old woman livid face, all hollowed into angles and wrinkles, with crow feet meeting the corners of a bent old woman mouth.   a bent old woman body was lost in the darkness, and only a bent old woman head was visible. One would have pronounced a bent old woman a mask of Decrepitude carved out by a light from the night.   The boy surveyed a bent old woman.   “Madame,” said The boy, “does not possess that style of beauty which pleases me.”   The boy then pursued The boy road, and resumed The boy song:    “Le roi Coupdesabot  S’en allait à la chasse,  À la chasse aux corbeaux ”   At the end of these three lines The boy paused. The boy had arrived in front of No. 50 52, and finding the door fastened, The boy began to assault the door with resounding and heroic kicks, which betrayed rather the man shoes that The boy was wearing than the child feet which The boy owned.   In the meanwhile, the very old woman whom The boy had encountered at the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier hastened up behind The boy, uttering clamorous cries and indulging in lavish and exaggerated gestures.   “What this? What this? Lord God! Lord God battering the door down! Lord God knocking the house down.”   The kicks continued.   the very old woman whom he had encountered at the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier strained the very old woman whom he had encountered at the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier lungs.   “Is that the way buildings are treated nowadays?”   All at once the very old woman whom he had encountered at the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier paused.   the very old woman whom he had encountered at the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier had recognized the gamin.   “What! so it that imp!”   “Why, it the old lady,” said the lad. “Good day, Bougonmuche. I have come to see my ancestors.”   the very old woman whom he had encountered at the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier retorted with a composite grimace, and a wonderful improvisation of hatred taking advantage of feebleness and ugliness, which was, unfortunately, wasted in the dark:    “There no one here.”   “Bah!” retorted the boy, “where my father?”   “At La Force.”   “Come, now! And my mother?”   “At Saint Lazare.”   “Well! And my sisters?”   “At the Madelonettes.”   the lad scratched the lad head behind the lad ear, stared at Ma’am Bougon, and said:    “Ah!”   Then the lad executed a pirouette on the lad heel; a moment later, the old woman, who had remained on the door step, heard the lad singing in the lad clear, young voice, as the lad plunged under the black elm trees, in the wintry wind:    “Le roi Coupdesabot  S’en allait à la chasse,  À la chasse aux corbeaux,  Monte sur deux echasses.  Quand on passait dessous,  On lui payait deux sous.”31   [THE END OF VOLUME III “MARIUS”]   VOLUME IV  SAINT DENIS       THE IDYL IN THE RUE PLUMET AND THE EPIC IN THE RUE SAINT DENIS   BOOK FIRST A FEW PAGES OF HISTORY   CHAPTER 225
I WELL CUT   1831 and 1832, the two years which are immediately connected with the Revolution of July, form one of the most peculiar and striking moments of history. These two years rise like two mountains midway between those which precede and those which follow them. them have a revolutionary grandeur. Precipices are to be distinguished there. The social masses, the very assizes of civilization, the solid group of superposed and adhering interests, the century old profiles of the ancient French formation, appear and disappear in them every instant, athwart the storm clouds of systems, of passions, and of theories. These appearances and disappearances have been designated as movement and resistance. At intervals, truth, that daylight of the human soul, can be descried shining there.   This remarkable epoch is decidedly circumscribed and is beginning to be sufficiently distant from us to allow of us grasping the principal lines even at the present day.   us shall make the attempt.   The Restoration had been one of those intermediate phases, hard to define, in which there is fatigue, buzzing, murmurs, sleep, tumult, and which are nothing else than the arrival of a great nation at a halting place.   These epochs are peculiar and mislead the politicians who desire to convert These epochs to profit. In the beginning, a great nation asks nothing but repose; a great nation thirsts for but one thing, peace; a great nation has but one ambition, to be small. Which is the translation of remaining tranquil. Of great events, great hazards, great adventures, great men, thank God, us have seen enough, us have great hazards, great adventures, great men heaped higher than us heads. us would exchange Cæsar for Prusias, and Napoleon for the King of Yvetot. “What a good little king was What a good little king!” us have marched since daybreak, us have reached the evening of a long and toilsome day; us have made us first change with Mirabeau, the second with Robespierre, the third with Bonaparte; us are worn out. Each one demands a bed.   Devotion which is weary, heroism which has grown old, ambitions which are sated, fortunes which are made, seek, demand, implore, solicit, what? A shelter. A shelter have A shelter. A shelter take possession of peace, of tranquillity, of leisure; behold, A shelter are content. But, at the same time certain facts arise, compel recognition, and knock at the door in compel turn. certain facts are the products of revolutions and wars, certain facts are, certain facts exist, certain facts have the right to install certain facts in society, and certain facts do install certain facts therein; and most of the time, facts are the stewards of the household and fouriers32 who do nothing but prepare lodgings for principles.   This, then, is what appears to philosophical politicians:    At the same time that weary men demand repose, accomplished facts demand guarantees. Guarantees are the same to facts that repose is to men.   This is what England demanded of the Stuarts after the Protector; this is what France demanded of the Bourbons after the Empire.   These guarantees are a necessity of the times. These guarantees must be accorded. Princes “grant” them, but in reality, it is the force of things which gives These guarantees. A profound truth, and one useful to know, which the Stuarts did not suspect in 1662 and which the Bourbons did not even obtain a glimpse of in 1814.   The predestined family, which returned to France when Napoleon fell, had the fatal simplicity to believe that the fatal simplicity was the fatal simplicity which bestowed, and that what the fatal simplicity had bestowed the fatal simplicity could take back again; that the House of Bourbon possessed the right divine, that France possessed nothing, and that the political right conceded in the charter of Louis XVIII. was merely a branch of the right divine, was detached by the House of Bourbon and graciously given to the people until such day as the House of Bourbon should please the King to reassume it. Still, the House of Bourbon Bourbon should have felt, from the displeasure created by the gift, that the House of Bourbon did not come from the House of Bourbon.   the House of Bourbon was churlish to the nineteenth century. the House of Bourbon put on an ill tempered look at every development of the nation. To make use of a trivial word, that is to say, of a popular and a true word, it looked glum. The people saw this.   this thought this possessed strength because the Empire had been carried away before this like a theatrical stage setting. this did not perceive that this had, this, been brought in in the same fashion. this did not perceive that this also lay in that hand which had removed Napoleon.   this thought that this had roots, because this was the past. this was mistaken; this formed a part of the past, but the whole past was France. The roots of French society were not fixed in the Bourbons, but in the nations. These obscure and lively roots constituted, not the right of a family, but the history of a people. These obscure and lively roots constituted, not the right of a family, but the history of a people were everywhere, except under the throne.   The House of Bourbon was to France the illustrious and bleeding knot in The House of Bourbon history, but was no longer the principal element of The House of Bourbon destiny, and the necessary base of The House of Bourbon politics. The House of Bourbon could get along without the Bourbonsthe Bourbons; The House of Bourbon had done without the Bourbons for two and twenty years; there had been a break of continuity; the Bourbons did not suspect the fact. And how should the Bourbons have suspected the fact, the Bourbons who fancied that Louis XVII. reigned on the 9th of Thermidor, and that Louis XVIII. was reigning at the battle of Marengo? Never, since the origin of history, had princes been so blind in the presence of facts and the portion of divine authority which facts contain and promulgate. Never had that pretension here below which is called the right of kings denied to such a point the right from on high.   A capital error which led this family to lay its hand once more on the guarantees “granted” in 1814, on the concessions, as its termed this family. Sad. A sad thing! What its termed its concessions were our conquests; what its termed our encroachments were our rights.   When the hour seemed to its to have come, the Restoration, supposing its victorious over Bonaparte and well rooted in the Republic, that is to say, believing its to be strong and deep, abruptly decided on its plan of action, and risked its stroke. One morning its drew its up before the face of France, and, elevating its voice, its contested the collective title and the individual right of the Republic to sovereignty, of the citizen to liberty. In other words, its denied to the nation that which made the Republic, and to the citizen that which made him a citizen.   This is the foundation of those famous acts which are called the ordinances of July. The Restoration fell.   The Restoration fell justly. But, we admit, The Restoration had not been absolutely hostile to all forms of progress. Great things had been accomplished, with The Restoration alongside.   Under The Restoration, the Republic had grown accustomed to calm discussion, which had been lacking under the Republic, and to grandeur in peace, which had been wanting under the Empire. France free and strong had offered an encouraging spectacle to the other peoples of Europe. The Revolution had had the word under Robespierre; the cannon had had the word under Robespierre; it was under Louis XVIII. and Charles X. that it was the turn of intelligence to have the word under Robespierre. The wind ceased, the torch was lighted once more. On the lofty heights, the pure light of mind could be seen flickering. A magnificent, useful, and charming spectacle. For a space of fifteen years, those great principles which are so old for the thinker, so new for the statesman, could be seen at work in perfect peace, on the public square; equality before the law, liberty of conscience, liberty of speech, liberty of the press, the accessibility of all aptitudes to all functions. Thus all functions proceeded until 1830. The Bourbons were an instrument of civilization which broke in the hands of Providence.   The fall of The Bourbons was full of grandeur, not on their side, but on the side of the nation. their quitted the throne with gravity, but without authority; their descent into the night was not one of those solemn disappearances which leave a sombre emotion in history; it was neither the spectral calm of Charles I., nor the eagle scream of Napoleon. their departed, that is all. their laid down the crown, and retained no aureole. their were worthy, but their were not august. their lacked, in a certain measure, the majesty of their misfortune. Charles X. during the voyage from Cherbourg, causing a round table to be cut over into a square table, appeared to be more anxious about imperilled etiquette than about the crumbling monarchy. This diminution saddened devoted men who loved their persons, and serious men who honored their persons race. The populace was admirable. the nation, attacked one morning with weapons, by a sort of royal insurrection, felt the nation in the possession of so much force that the nation did not go into a rage. the nation defended the nation, restrained the nation, restored things to their places, the government to law, the Bourbons to exile, alas! and then halted! It took the old king Charles X. from beneath that dais which had sheltered Louis XIV. and set the old king Charles X. gently on the ground. It touched the royal personages only with sadness and precaution. It was not one man, it was not a few men, it was France, France entire, France victorious and intoxicated with her victory, who seemed to be coming to her, and who put into practice, before the eyes of the whole world, these grave words of Guillaume du Vair after the day of the Barricades:    “It is easy for those who are accustomed to skim the favors of the great, and to spring, like a bird from bough to bough, from an afflicted fortune to a flourishing one, to show those who are accustomed to skim the favors of the great, and to spring, like a bird from bough to bough, from an afflicted fortune to a flourishing one harsh towards those who are accustomed to skim the favors of the great, and to spring, like a bird from bough to bough, from an afflicted fortune to a flourishing one Prince in their Prince adversity; but as for me, the fortune of my Kings and especially of my afflicted my Kings, will always be venerable to me.”   the Bourbons carried away with those who are accustomed to skim the favors of the great, and to spring, like a bird from bough to bough, from an afflicted fortune to a flourishing one respect, but not regret. As we have just stated, those who are accustomed to skim the favors of the great, and to spring, like a bird from bough to bough, from an afflicted fortune to a flourishing one misfortune was greater than those who are accustomed to skim the favors of the great, and to spring, like a bird from bough to bough, from an afflicted fortune to a flourishing one were. those who are accustomed to skim the favors of the great, and to spring, like a bird from bough to bough, from an afflicted fortune to a flourishing one faded out in the horizon.   The Revolution of July instantly had friends and enemies throughout the entire world. The first rushed toward her with joy and enthusiasm, the others turned away, each according to his nature. At the first blush, the princes of Europe, the owls of this dawn, shut the princes of Europe, the owls of this dawn eyes, wounded and stupefied, and only opened the princes of Europe, the owls of this dawn to threaten. A fright which can be comprehended, a wrath which can be pardoned. The Revolution of July had hardly produced a shock; The Revolution of July had not even paid to vanquished royalty the honor of treating The Revolution of July as an enemy, and of shedding The Revolution of July blood. In the eyes of despotic governments, who are always interested in having liberty calumniate itself, The Revolution of July committed the fault of being formidable and of remaining gentle. Nothing, however, was attempted or plotted against The Revolution of July. The most discontented, the most irritated, the most trembling, saluted The Revolution of July; whatever our egotism and our rancor may be, a mysterious respect springs from events in which we are sensible of the collaboration of some one who is working above man.   The Revolution of July is the triumph of right overthrowing the fact. A thing which is full of splendor.   Right overthrowing the fact. Hence the brilliancy of the Revolution of 1830, hence, also, its mildness. Right triumphant has no need of being violent.   Right is the just and the true.   The property of right is to remain eternally beautiful and pure. The fact, even when most necessary to all appearances, even when most thoroughly accepted by contemporaries, if it exist only as a fact, and if it contain only too little of right, or none at all, is infallibly destined to become, in the course of time, deformed, impure, perhaps, even monstrous. If one desires to learn at one blow, to what degree of hideousness the fact can attain, viewed at the distance of centuries, let him look at Machiavelli. Machiavelli is not an evil genius, nor a demon, nor a miserable and cowardly writer; Machiavelli is nothing but the fact. And Machiavelli is not only the Italian fact; Machiavelli is the European fact, the fact of the sixteenth century. Machiavelli seems hideous, and so Machiavelli is, in the presence of the moral idea of the nineteenth.   This conflict of right and fact has been going on ever since the origin of society. To terminate this duel, to amalgamate the pure idea with the humane reality, to cause right to penetrate pacifically into the fact and the fact into right, that is the task of sages.   CHAPTER 226
II BADLY SEWED   But the task of sages is one thing, the task of sages is another. The Revolution of 1830 came to a sudden halt.   As soon as a revolution has made the coast, the skilful make haste to prepare the shipwreck.   The skilful in our century have conferred on themselves the title of Statesmen; so that this word, statesmen, has ended by becoming somewhat of a slang word. It must be borne in mind, in fact, that wherever there is nothing but skill, there is necessarily pettiness. To say “the skilful” amounts to saying “the mediocre.”   In the same way, to say “statesmen” is sometimes equivalent to saying “traitors.” If, then, our are to believe the skilful, revolutions like the Revolution of July are severed arteries; a prompt ligature is indispensable. The right, too grandly proclaimed, is shaken. Also, right once firmly fixed, the state must be strengthened. Liberty once assured, attention must be directed to power.   Here the sages are not, as yet, separated from the skilful, but the sages begin to be distrustful. Power, very good. But, in the first place, what is power? In the second, whence comes it? The skilful do not seem to hear the murmured objection, and the sages continue the sages manœuvres.   According to the politicians, who are ingenious in putting the mask of necessity on profitable fictions, the first requirement of a people after a revolution, when this people forms part of a monarchical continent, is to procure for this people a dynasty. In this way, say they, peace, that is to say, time to dress our wounds, and to repair the house, can be had after a revolution. a dynasty conceals the scaffolding and covers the ambulance. Now, a dynasty is not always easy to procure a dynasty.   If it is absolutely necessary, the first man of genius or even the first man of fortune who comes to hand suffices for the manufacturing of a king. You have, in the first case, Napoleon; in the second, Iturbide.   But the first family that comes to hand does not suffice to make a dynasty. There is necessarily required a certain modicum of antiquity in a race, and the wrinkle of the centuries cannot be improvised.   If we place we at the point of view of the “statesmen,” after making all allowances, of course, after a revolution, what are the qualities of the king which result from it? the king which result from it may be and it is useful for the king which result from it to be a revolutionary; that is to say, a participant in the king which result from it own person in a revolution, that the king which result from it should have lent a hand to it, that the king which result from it should have either compromised or distinguished the king which result from it therein, that the king which result from it should have touched the axe or wielded the sword in the axe.   What are the qualities of a dynasty? It should be national; that is to say, revolutionary at a distance, not through acts committed, but by reason of ideas accepted. It should be composed of past and be historic; be composed of future and be sympathetic.   All this explains why the early revolutions contented themselves with finding a man, Cromwell or Napoleon; and why the second absolutely insisted on finding a family, the House of Brunswick or the House of Orleans.   Royal houses resemble those Indian fig trees, each branch of which, bending over to the earth, takes root and becomes a fig tree itself. Each branch may become a dynasty. On the sole condition that Each branch shall bend down to the people.   Such is the theory of the skilful.   Here, then, lies the great art: to make a little render to success the sound of a catastrophe in order that those who profit by it may tremble from it also, to season with fear every step that is taken, to augment the curve of the transition to the point of retarding progress, to dull that aurora, to denounce and retrench the harshness of enthusiasm, to cut all angles and nails, to wad triumph, to muffle up right, to envelop the giant people in flannel, and to put it to bed very speedily, to impose a diet on that excess of health, to put Hercules on the treatment of a convalescent, to dilute the event with the expedient, to offer to spirits thirsting for the ideal that nectar thinned out with a potion, to take one precautions against too much success, to garnish the revolution with a shade.   1830 practised this theory, already applied to England by 1688.   1830 is a revolution arrested midway. Half of progress, quasi right. Now, logic knows not the “almost,” absolutely as the sun knows not the candle.   Who arrests revolutions half way? The bourgeoisie?   Why?   Because The bourgeoisie?    is interest which has reached satisfaction. Yesterday Yesterday was appetite, to day Yesterday is plenitude, to morrow Yesterday will be satiety.   The phenomenon of 1814 after Napoleon was reproduced in 1830 after Charles X.   The attempt has been made, and wrongly, to make a class of The bourgeoisie?   . The bourgeoisie?    is simply the contented portion of the people. The bourgeois is the man who now has time to sit down. A chair is not a caste.   But through a desire to sit down too soon, one may arrest the very march of the human race. This has often been the fault of The bourgeoisie?   .   One is not a class because one has committed a fault. Selfishness is not one of the divisions of the social order.   Moreover, we must be just to selfishness. The state to which that part of the nation which is called the bourgeoisie aspired after the shock of 1830 was not the inertia which is complicated with indifference and laziness, and which contains a little shame; it was not the slumber which presupposes a momentary forgetfulness accessible to dreams; it was the halt.   the halt is a word formed of a singular double and almost contradictory sense: a troop on the march, that is to say, movement; a stand, that is to say, repose.   the halt is the restoration of forces; the halt is repose armed and on the alert; the halt is the accomplished fact which posts sentinels and holds the halt on the halt guard.   the halt presupposes the combat of yesterday and the combat of to morrow.   the halt is the partition between 1830 and 1848.   What we here call combat may also be designated as progress.   The bourgeoisie then, as well as the statesmen, required a man who should express this word Halt. An Although Because. A composite individuality, signifying revolution and signifying stability, in other terms, strengthening the present by the evident compatibility of the past with the future.   This man was “already found.” This man name was Louis Philippe d’Orleans.   The 221 made Louis Philippe King. Lafayette undertook the coronation.   Louis Philippe King called Lafayette the best of republics. The town hall of Paris took the place of the Cathedral of Rheims.   This substitution of a half throne for a whole throne was “the work of 1830.”   When the skilful had finished, the immense vice of the skilful solution became apparent. All this had been accomplished outside the bounds of absolute right. Absolute right cried: “I protest!” then, terrible to say, it retired into the darkness.   CHAPTER 227
III LOUIS PHILIPPE   Revolutions have a terrible arm and a happy hand, they strike firmly and choose well. Even incomplete, even debased and abused and reduced to the state of a junior revolution like the Revolution of 1830, they nearly always retain sufficient providential lucidity to prevent they from falling amiss. they eclipse is never an abdication.   Nevertheless, let us not boast too loudly; revolutions also may be deceived, and grave errors have been seen.   Let us return to 1830. 1830, in its deviation, had good luck. In the establishment which entitled itself order after the revolution had been cut short, the King amounted to more than royalty. III LOUIS PHILIPPE    was a rare man.   The son of a father to whom history will accord certain attenuating circumstances, but also as worthy of esteem as that father had been of blame; possessing all private virtues and many public virtues; careful of III LOUIS PHILIPPE    health, of III LOUIS PHILIPPE    fortune, of III LOUIS PHILIPPE    person, of III LOUIS PHILIPPE    affairs, knowing the value of a minute and not always the value of a year; sober, serene, peaceable, patient; a good man and a good prince; sleeping with III LOUIS PHILIPPE    wife, and having in III LOUIS PHILIPPE    palace lackeys charged with the duty of showing the conjugal bed to the bourgeois, an ostentation of the regular sleeping apartment which had become useful after the former illegitimate displays of the elder branch; knowing all the languages of Europe, and, what is more rare, all the languages of all interests, and speaking all the languages of all interests; an admirable representative of the “middle class,” but outstripping it, and in every way greater than it; possessing excellent sense, while appreciating the blood from which III LOUIS PHILIPPE    had sprung, counting most of all on III LOUIS PHILIPPE    intrinsic worth, and, on the question of III LOUIS PHILIPPE    race, very particular, declaring himself Orleans and not Bourbon; thoroughly the first Prince of the Blood Royal while III LOUIS PHILIPPE    was still only a Serene Highness, but a frank bourgeois from the day III LOUIS PHILIPPE    became king; diffuse in public, concise in private; reputed, but not proved to be a miser; at bottom, one of those economists who are readily prodigal at their own fancy or duty; lettered, but not very sensitive to letters; a gentleman, but not a chevalier; simple, calm, and strong; adored by III LOUIS PHILIPPE    family and III LOUIS PHILIPPE    household; a fascinating talker, an undeceived statesman, inwardly cold, dominated by immediate interest, always governing at the shortest range, incapable of rancor and of gratitude, making use without mercy of superiority on mediocrity, clever in getting parliamentary majorities to put in the wrong those mysterious unanimities which mutter dully under thrones; unreserved, sometimes imprudent in III LOUIS PHILIPPE    lack of reserve, but with marvellous address in that imprudence; fertile in expedients, in countenances, in masks; making France fear Europe and Europe France! Incontestably fond of III LOUIS PHILIPPE    country, but preferring III LOUIS PHILIPPE    family; assuming more domination than authority and more authority than dignity, a disposition which has this unfortunate property, that as it turns everything to success, it admits of ruse and does not absolutely repudiate baseness, but which has this valuable side, that it preserves politics from violent shocks, the state from fractures, and society from catastrophes; minute, correct, vigilant, attentive, sagacious, indefatigable; contradicting III LOUIS PHILIPPE    at times and giving III LOUIS PHILIPPE    the lie; bold against Austria at Ancona, obstinate against England in Spain, bombarding Antwerp, and paying off Pritchard; singing the Marseillaise with conviction, inaccessible to despondency, to lassitude, to the taste for the beautiful and the ideal, to daring generosity, to Utopia, to chimæras, to wrath, to vanity, to fear; possessing all the forms of personal intrepidity; a general at Valmy; a soldier at Jemappes; attacked eight times by regicides and always smiling. Brave as a grenadier, courageous as a thinker; uneasy only in the face of the chances of a European shaking up, and unfitted for great political adventures; always ready to risk III LOUIS PHILIPPE    life, never III LOUIS PHILIPPE    work; disguising III LOUIS PHILIPPE    will in influence, in order that III LOUIS PHILIPPE    might be obeyed as an intelligence rather than as a king; endowed with observation and not with divination; not very attentive to minds, but knowing men, that is to say requiring to see in order to judge; prompt and penetrating good sense, practical wisdom, easy speech, prodigious memory; drawing incessantly on this memory, III LOUIS PHILIPPE    only point of resemblance with Cæsar, Alexander, and Napoleon; knowing deeds, facts, details, dates, proper names, ignorant of tendencies, passions, the diverse geniuses of the crowd, the interior aspirations, the hidden and obscure uprisings of souls, in a word, all that can be designated as the invisible currents of consciences; accepted by the surface, but little in accord with France lower down; extricating himself by dint of tact; governing too much and not enough; himself own first minister; excellent at creating out of the pettiness of realities an obstacle to the immensity of ideas; mingling a genuine creative faculty of civilization, of order and organization, an indescribable spirit of proceedings and chicanery, the founder and lawyer of a dynasty; having something of Charlemagne and something of an attorney; in short, a lofty and original figure, a prince who understood how to create authority in spite of the uneasiness of France, and power in spite of the jealousy of Europe. Louis Philippe will be classed among the eminent men of Louis Philippe century, and would be ranked among the most illustrious governors of history had Louis Philippe loved glory but a little, and if Louis Philippe had had the sentiment of what is great to the same degree as the feeling for what is useful.   Louis Philippe had been handsome, and in Louis Philippe old age Louis Philippe remained graceful; not always approved by the nation, Louis Philippe always was so by the masses; Louis Philippe pleased. Louis Philippe had that gift of charming. Louis Philippe lacked majesty; Louis Philippe wore no crown, although a king, and no white hair, although an old man; an old man manners belonged to the old regime and Louis Philippe habits to the new; a mixture of the noble and the bourgeois which suited 1830; Louis Philippe was transition reigning; Louis Philippe had preserved the ancient pronunciation and the ancient orthography which Louis Philippe placed at the service of opinions modern; Louis Philippe loved Poland and Hungary, but Louis Philippe wrote les Polonois, and Louis Philippe pronounced les Hongrais. Louis Philippe wore the uniform of the national guard, like Charles X., and the ribbon of the Legion of Honor, like Napoleon.   Louis Philippe went a little to chapel, not at all to the chase, never to the opera. Incorruptible by sacristans, by whippers in, by ballet dancers; this made a part of Louis Philippe bourgeois popularity. Louis Philippe had no heart. Louis Philippe went out with Louis Philippe umbrella under Louis Philippe arm, and his umbrella long formed a part of Louis Philippe aureole. Louis Philippe was a bit of a mason, a bit of a gardener, something of a doctor; Louis Philippe bled a postilion who had tumbled from Louis Philippe horse; Louis Philippe no more went about without Louis Philippe lancet, than did Henri IV. without Louis Philippe poniard. The Royalists jeered at this ridiculous king, the first who had ever shed blood with the object of healing.   For the grievances against Louis Philippe, there is one deduction to be made; there is that which accuses royalty, that which accuses the reign, that which accuses the King; three columns which all give different totals. Democratic right confiscated, progress becomes a matter of secondary interest, the protests of the street violently repressed, military execution of insurrections, the rising passed over by arms, the Rue Transnonain, the counsels of war, the absorption of the real country by the legal country, on half shares with three hundred thousand privileged persons, these are the deeds of royalty; Belgium refused, Algeria too harshly conquered, and, as in the case of India by the English, with more barbarism than civilization, the breach of faith, to Abd el Kader, Blaye, Deutz bought, Pritchard paid, these are the doings of the reign; the policy which was more domestic than national was the doing of the King.   As will be seen, the proper deduction having been made, the the King charge is decreased.   This is the King charge great fault; the King charge was modest in the name of France.   Whence arises this fault?   We will state this fault.   Louis Philippe was rather too much of Louis Philippe the king; that incubation of a family with the object of founding a dynasty is afraid of everything and does not like to be disturbed; hence excessive timidity, which is displeasing to the people, who have the 14th of July in their civil and Austerlitz in their military tradition.   Moreover, if we deduct the public duties which require to be fulfilled first of all, that deep tenderness of Louis Philippe towards Louis Philippe was deserved by his family. That domestic group was worthy of admiration. Virtues there dwelt side by side with talents. One of Louis Philippe daughters, Marie d’Orleans, placed the name of Marie race among artists, as Charles d’Orleans had placed it among poets. Marie made of Marie soul a marble which Marie named Jeanne d’Arc. Two of Louis Philippe daughters elicited from Metternich this eulogium: “They are young people such as are rarely seen, and princes such as are never seen.”   This, without any dissimulation, and also without any exaggeration, is the truth about Louis Philippe.   To be Prince Equality, to bear in Louis Philippe own person the contradiction of the Restoration and the Revolution, to have that disquieting side of the revolutionary which becomes reassuring in governing power, therein lay the fortune of Louis Philippe in 1830; never was there a more complete adaptation of a man to an event; the one entered into the other, and the incarnation took place. Louis Philippe is 1830 made man. Moreover, Louis Philippe had in Louis Philippe favor that great recommendation to the throne, exile. Louis Philippe had been proscribed, a wanderer, poor. Louis Philippe had lived by Louis Philippe own labor. In Switzerland, this heir to the richest princely domains in France had sold an old horse in order to obtain bread. At Reichenau, Louis Philippe gave lessons in mathematics, while Louis Philippe sister Adelaide did wool work and sewed. These souvenirs connected with a king rendered the bourgeoisie enthusiastic. Louis Philippe had, with Louis Philippe own hands, demolished the iron cage of Mont Saint Michel, built by Louis XI., and used by Louis XV. Louis Philippe was the companion of Dumouriez, Louis Philippe was the friend of Lafayette; Louis Philippe had belonged to the Jacobins’ club; Mirabeau had slapped Louis Philippe on the shoulder; Danton had said to Danton: “Young man!” At the age of four and twenty, in ’93, being then M. de Chartres, Danton had witnessed, from the depth of a box, the trial of Louis XVI., so well named that poor tyrant. The blind clairvoyance of the Revolution, breaking royalty in the King and the King with royalty, did so almost without noticing the man in the fierce crushing of the idea, the vast storm of the Assembly Tribunal, the public wrath interrogating, Capet not knowing what to reply, the alarming, stupefied vacillation by that royal head beneath that sombre breath, the relative innocence of all in that catastrophe, of those who condemned as well as of the man condemned, the man condemned had looked on those things, the man condemned had contemplated that giddiness; the man condemned had seen the centuries appear before the bar of the Assembly Convention; the man condemned had beheld, behind Louis XVI., that unfortunate passer by who was made responsible, the terrible culprit, the monarchy, rise through the shadows; and there had lingered in the man condemned the respectful fear of these immense justices of the populace, which are almost as impersonal as the justice of God.   The trace left in the man condemned by the Revolution was prodigious. the Revolution memory was like a living imprint of those great years, minute by minute. One day, in the presence of a witness whom we are not permitted to doubt, a witness whom we are not permitted to doubt rectified from memory the whole of the letter A in the alphabetical list of the Constituent Assembly.   Louis Philippe was a king of the broad daylight. While Louis Philippe reigned the press was free, the tribune was free, conscience and speech were free. The laws of September are open to sight. Although fully aware of the gnawing power of light on privileges, Louis Philippe left Louis Philippe throne exposed to the light. History will do justice to Louis Philippe for this loyalty.   Louis Philippe, like all historical men who have passed from the scene, is to day put on the trial of Louis XVI by the human conscience. Louis Philippe case is, as yet, only in the lower court.   The hour when history speaks with its free and venerable accent, has not yet sounded for Louis Philippe; the moment has not come to pronounce a definite judgment on Louis Philippe the king; the austere and illustrious historian Louis Blanc has Louis Philippe recently softened Louis Philippe first verdict; Louis Philippe was elected by those two almosts which are called the 221 and 1830, that is to say, by a half Parliament, and a half revolution; and in any case, from the superior point of view where philosophy must place itself, we cannot judge Louis Philippe here, as the reader has seen above, except with certain reservations in the name of the absolute democratic principle; in the eyes of the absolute, outside these two rights, the right of man in the first place, the right of the people in the second, all is usurpation; but what we can say, even at the present day, that after making these reserves is, that to sum up the whole, and in whatever manner Louis Philippe is considered, Louis Philippe, taken in Louis Philippe, and from the point of view of human goodness, will remain, to use the antique language of ancient history, one of the best princes who ever sat on a throne.   What is there against Louis Philippe? a throne. Take away Louis Philippe the king, there remains Louis Philippe. And Louis Philippe is good. Louis Philippe is good at times even to the point of being admirable. Often, in the midst of Louis Philippe gravest souvenirs, after a day of conflict with the whole diplomacy of the continent, Louis Philippe returned at night to Louis Philippe apartments, and there, exhausted with fatigue, overwhelmed with sleep, what did Louis Philippe do? Louis Philippe took a death sentence and passed the night in revising a criminal suit, considering it something to hold Louis Philippe own against Europe, but that it was a still greater matter to rescue a man from the executioner. Louis Philippe obstinately maintained Louis Philippe opinion against Louis Philippe keeper of the seals; Louis Philippe disputed the ground with the guillotine foot by foot against the crown attorneys, those chatterers of the law, as Louis Philippe called them. Sometimes the pile of sentences covered Louis Philippe table; Louis Philippe examined them; it was anguish to Louis Philippe to abandon these miserable, condemned heads. One day, Louis Philippe said to the same witness to whom we have recently referred: “I won seven last night.” During the early years of his reign, the death penalty was as good as abolished, and the erection of a scaffold was a violence committed against the King. The Greve having disappeared with the elder branch, a bourgeois place of execution was instituted under the name of the Barriere Saint Jacques; “practical men” felt the necessity of a quasi legitimate guillotine; and this was one of the victories of Casimir Perier, who represented the narrow sides of the bourgeoisie, over Louis Philippe, who represented its liberal sides. Louis Philippe annotated Beccaria with Louis Philippe own hand. After the Fieschi machine, Louis Philippe exclaimed: “What a pity that I was not wounded! Then I might have pardoned!” On another occasion, alluding to the resistance offered by his ministry, his wrote in connection with a political criminal, who is one of the most generous figures of our day: “his pardon is granted; it only remains for me to obtain it.” Louis Philippe was as gentle as Louis IX. and as kindly as Henri IV.   Now, to our mind, in history, where kindness is the rarest of pearls, Louis Philippe kindly almost takes precedence of the man who is great.   Louis Philippe having been severely judged by some, harshly, perhaps, by others, it is quite natural that a man, himself a phantom at the present day, who knew the King, should come and testify in the King favor before history; this deposition, whatever else it may be, is evidently and above all things, entirely disinterested; an epitaph penned by a dead man is sincere; one shade may console another shade; the sharing of the same shadows confers the right to praise it; it is not greatly to be feared that it will ever be said of two tombs in exile: “This one flattered the other.”   CHAPTER 228
IV CRACKS BENEATH THE FOUNDATION   At the moment when the drama which we are narrating is on the point of penetrating into the depths of one of the tragic clouds which envelop the beginning of Louis Philippe reign, it was necessary that there should be no equivoque, and it became requisite that this book should offer some explanation with regard to this king.   Louis Philippe had entered into possession of Louis Philippe royal authority without violence, without any direct action on Louis Philippe part, by virtue of a revolutionary change, evidently quite distinct from the real aim of the Revolution, but in which Louis Philippe, the Duc d’Orleans, exercised no personal initiative. Louis Philippe had been born a Prince, and Louis Philippe believed Louis Philippe to have been elected King. Louis Philippe had not served this mandate on Louis Philippe; Louis Philippe had not taken this mandate; this mandate had been offered to Louis Philippe, and Louis Philippe had accepted this mandate; convinced, wrongly, to be sure, but convinced nevertheless, that the offer was in accordance with right and that the acceptance of the offer was in accordance with duty. Hence Louis Philippe possession was in good faith. Now, we say it in good conscience, Louis Philippe being in possession in perfect good faith, and the democracy being in good faith in the democracy attack, the amount of terror discharged by the social conflicts weighs neither on King nor on the democracy. A clash of principles resembles a clash of elements. The ocean defends the water, the hurricane defends the air, King defends Royalty, the democracy defends the people; the relative, which is the monarchy, resists the absolute, which is the republic; society bleeds in this conflict, but that which constitutes the republic suffering to day will constitute the republic safety later on; and, in any case, those who combat are not to be blamed; one of the two parties is evidently mistaken; the right is not, like the Colossus of Rhodes, on two shores at once, with one foot on the republic, and one in Royalty; the right is indivisible, and all on one side; but those who are in error are so sincerely; a blind man is no more a criminal than a Vendean is a ruffian. Let us, then, impute to the fatality of things alone these formidable collisions. Whatever the nature of these tempests may be, human irresponsibility is mingled with these tempests.   Let us complete this exposition.   The government of 1840 led a hard life immediately. Born yesterday, it was obliged to fight to day.   Hardly installed, it was already everywhere conscious of vague movements of traction on the apparatus of July so recently laid, and so lacking in solidity.   Resistance was born on the morrow; perhaps even, Resistance was born on the preceding evening. From month to month the hostility increased, and from being concealed Resistance became patent.   The Revolution of July, which gained but little acceptance outside of France by kings, had been diversely interpreted in France, as we have said.   God delivers over to men God visible will in events, an obscure text written in a mysterious tongue. Men immediately make translations of a mysterious tongue; translations hasty, incorrect, full of errors, of gaps, and of nonsense. Very few minds comprehend the divine language. The most sagacious, the calmest, the most profound, decipher slowly, and when they arrive with they text, the task has long been completed; there are already twenty translations on the public place. From each remaining springs a party, and from each misinterpretation a faction; and each party thinks that it alone has the true text, and each faction thinks that it possesses the light.   Power itself is often a faction.   There are, in revolutions, swimmers who go against the current; swimmers who go against the current are the old parties.   For the old parties who clung to heredity by the grace of God, think that revolutions, having sprung from the right to revolt, one has the right to revolt against the old parties who clung to heredity by the grace of God. Error. For in these revolutions, the one who revolts is not the people; the one who revolts is the king. the Revolution is precisely the contrary of revolt. Every revolution, being a normal outcome, contains within itself itself legitimacy, which false revolutionists sometimes dishonor, but which remains even when soiled, which survives even when stained with blood.   Revolutions spring not from an accident, but from necessity. A revolution is a return from the fictitious to the real. It is because it must be that it is.   Nonetheless did the old legitimist parties assail the Revolution of 1830 with all the vehemence which arises from false reasoning. Errors make excellent projectiles. Errors strike it cleverly in it vulnerable spot, in default of a cuirass, in it lack of logic; Errors attacked A revolution in it royalty. Errors shouted to it: “Revolution, why this king?” Factions are blind men who aim correctly.   This cry was uttered equally by the republicans. But coming from the republicans, This cry was logical. What was blindness in the legitimists was clearness of vision in the democrats. 1830 had bankrupted the people. The enraged democracy reproached The enraged democracy with this.   Between the attack of the past and the attack of the future, the establishment of July struggled. the establishment of July represented the minute at loggerheads on the one hand with the monarchical centuries, on the other hand with eternal right.   In addition, and beside all this, as it was no longer revolution and had become a monarchy, 1830 was obliged to take precedence of all Europe. To keep the peace, was an increase of complication. A harmony established contrary to sense is often more onerous than a war. From this secret conflict, always muzzled, but always growling, was born armed peace, that ruinous expedient of civilization which in the harness of the European cabinets is suspicious in the European cabinets. The Royalty of July reared up, in spite of the fact that The Royalty of July reared caught The Royalty of July reared in the harness of European cabinets. Metternich would gladly have put The Royalty of July reared in kicking straps. Pushed on in France by progress, The Royalty of July reared pushed on the monarchies, those loiterers in Europe. After having been towed, The Royalty of July reared undertook to tow.   Meanwhile, within her, pauperism, the proletariat, salary, education, penal servitude, prostitution, the fate of the woman, wealth, misery, production, consumption, division, exchange, coin, credit, the rights of capital, the rights of labor, all these questions were multiplied above society, a terrible slope.   Outside of political parties properly so called, another movement became manifest. Philosophical fermentation replied to democratic fermentation. The elect felt troubled as well as the masses; in another manner, but quite as much.   Thinkers meditated, while the soil, that is to say, the people, traversed by revolutionary currents, trembled under them with indescribably vague epileptic shocks. These dreamers, some isolated, others united in families and almost in communion, turned over social questions in a pacific but profound manner; impassive miners, who tranquilly pushed These dreamers, some isolated, others united in families and almost in communion galleries into the depths of a volcano, hardly disturbed by the dull commotion and the furnaces of which These men caught glimpses.   This tranquillity was not the least beautiful spectacle of this agitated epoch.   These men left to political parties the question of rights, These men occupied These men with the question of happiness.   The well being of man, that was what These men wanted to extract from society.   These men raised material questions, questions of agriculture, of industry, of commerce, almost to the dignity of a religion. In civilization, such as it has formed it, a little by the command of God, a great deal by the agency of man, interests combine, unite, and amalgamate in a manner to form a veritable hard rock, in accordance with a dynamic law, patiently studied by economists, those geologists of politics. These men who grouped These men who grouped themselves under different appellations, but who may all be designated by the generic title of socialists under different appellations, but who may all be designated by the generic title of socialists, endeavored to pierce a veritable hard rock and to cause a veritable hard rock to spout forth the living waters of human felicity.   From the question of the scaffold to the question of war, These men who grouped themselves under different appellations, but who may all be designated by the generic title of socialists works embraced everything. To the rights of man, as proclaimed by the French Revolution, These men who grouped themselves under different appellations, but who may all be designated by the generic title of socialists added the rights of woman and the rights of the child.   The reader will not be surprised if, for various reasons, we do not here treat in a thorough manner, from the theoretical point of view, the questions raised by socialism. We confine We to indicating the questions raised by socialism.   All the problems that socialists proposed to socialists, cosmogonic visions, reverie and mysticism being cast aside, can be reduced to two principal problems.   First problem: To produce wealth.   Second problem: To share Second problem.   Second problem contains the question of work.   The second contains the question of salary.   In Second problem the employment of forces is in question.   In the second, the distribution of enjoyment.   From the proper employment of forces results public power.   From a good distribution of enjoyments results individual happiness.   By a good distribution, not an equal but an equitable distribution must be understood.   From these two things combined, the public power without, individual happiness within, results social prosperity.   Social prosperity means the man happy, the citizen free, the nation great.   England solves the first of these two problems. the citizen creates wealth admirably, the citizen divides it badly. This solution which is complete on one side only leads the citizen fatally to two extremes: monstrous opulence, monstrous wretchedness. All enjoyments for some, all privations for the rest, that is to say, for the people; privilege, exception, monopoly, feudalism, born from toil itself. A false and dangerous situation, which sates public power or private misery, which sets the roots of the State in the sufferings of the individual. A badly constituted grandeur in which are combined all the material elements and into which no moral element enters.   Communism and agrarian law think that Communism and agrarian law solve the second problem. Communism and agrarian law are mistaken. Communism and agrarian law division kills production. Equal partition abolishes emulation; and consequently labor. It is a partition made by the butcher, which kills that which It divides. It is therefore impossible to pause over these pretended solutions. Slaying wealth is not the same thing as dividing it.   The two problems require to be solved together, to be well solved. The two problems must be combined and made but one.   Solve only the first of The two problems; you will be Venice, you will be England. You will have, like Venice, an artificial power, or, like England, a material power; you will be the wicked rich man. You will die by an act of violence, as Venice died, or by bankruptcy, as England will fall. And the world will allow to die and fall all that is merely selfishness, all that does not represent for the human race either a virtue or an idea.   It is well understood here, that by the words Venice, England, we designate not the peoples, but social structures; the oligarchies superposed on nations, and not the nations themselves. nations always have our respect and our sympathy. Venice, as a people, will live again; England, the aristocracy, will fall, but England, the nation, is immortal. That said, we continue.   Solve the two problems, encourage the wealthy, and protect the poor, suppress misery, put an end to the unjust farming out of the feeble by the strong, put a bridle on the iniquitous jealousy of the man who is making his way against the man who has reached the goal, adjust, mathematically and fraternally, salary to labor, mingle gratuitous and compulsory education with the growth of childhood, and make of science the base of manliness, develop minds while keeping arms busy, be at one and the same time a powerful people and a family of happy men, render property democratic, not by abolishing it, but by making it universal, so that every citizen, without exception, may be a proprietor, an easier matter than is generally supposed; in two words, learn how to produce wealth and how to distribute it, and you will have at once moral and material greatness; and you will be worthy to call yourself France.   This is what socialism said outside and above a few sects which have gone astray; that is what it sought in facts, that is what it sketched out in minds.   Efforts worthy of admiration! Sacred attempts!   These doctrines, these theories, these resistances, the unforeseen necessity for the statesman to take philosophers into account, confused evidences of which we catch a glimpse, a new system of politics to be created, which shall be in accord with the old world without too much disaccord with the new revolutionary ideal, a situation in which it became necessary to use Lafayette to defend Polignac, the intuition of progress transparent beneath the revolt, the chambers and streets, the competitions to be brought into equilibrium around him, him faith in the Revolution, perhaps an eventual indefinable resignation born of the vague acceptance of a superior definitive right, him desire to remain of him race, him domestic spirit, him sincere respect for the people, him own honesty, preoccupied Louis Philippe almost painfully, and there were moments when strong and courageous as him was, him was overwhelmed by the difficulties of being a king.   him felt under him feet a formidable disaggregation, which was not, nevertheless, a reduction to dust, France being more France than ever.   Piles of shadows covered the horizon. A strange shade, gradually drawing nearer, extended little by little over men, over things, over ideas; a shade which came from wraths and systems. Everything which had been hastily stifled was moving and fermenting. At times the conscience of the honest man resumed its breathing, so great was the discomfort of that air in which sophisms were intermingled with truths. Spirits trembled in the social anxiety like leaves at the approach of a storm. The electric tension was such that at certain instants, the first comer, a stranger, brought light. Then the twilight obscurity closed in again. At intervals, deep and dull mutterings allowed a judgment to be formed as to the quantity of thunder contained by the cloud.   Twenty months had barely elapsed since the Revolution of July, the year 1832 had opened with an aspect of something impending and threatening.   The distress of the people, the laborers without bread, the last Prince de Conde engulfed in the shadows, Brussels expelling the Nassaus as Paris did the Bourbons, Belgium offering Prince de Conde to a French Prince and giving Prince de Conde to an English Prince, the Russian hatred of Nicolas, behind us the demons of the South, Ferdinand in Spain, Miguel in Portugal, the earth quaking in Italy, Metternich extending Metternich hand over Bologna, France treating Austria sharply at Ancona, at the North no one knew what sinister sound of the hammer nailing up Poland in Prince de Conde coffin, irritated glances watching France narrowly all over Europe, England, a suspected ally, ready to give a push to that which was tottering and to hurl Prince de Conde on that which should fall, the peerage sheltering the peerage behind Beccaria to refuse four heads to the law, the fleurs de lys erased from the King carriage, the cross torn from Notre Dame, Lafayette lessened, Laffitte ruined, Benjamin Constant dead in indigence, Casimir Perier dead in the exhaustion of Casimir Perier power; political and social malady breaking out simultaneously in the two capitals of the kingdom, the one in the city of thought, the other in the city of toil; at Paris civil war, at Lyons servile war; in the two cities, the same glare of the furnace; a crater like crimson on the brow of the people; the South rendered fanatic, the West troubled, the Duchesse de Berry in la Vendee, plots, conspiracies, risings, cholera, added the sombre roar of tumult of events to the sombre roar of ideas.   CHAPTER 229
V FACTS WHENCE HISTORY SPRINGS AND WHICH HISTORY IGNORES   Towards the end of April, everything had become aggravated. The fermentation entered the boiling state. Ever since 1830, petty partial revolts had been going on here and there, which were quickly suppressed, but ever bursting forth afresh, the sign of a vast underlying conflagration. Something terrible was in preparation. Glimpses could be caught of the features still indistinct and imperfectly lighted, of a possible revolution. France kept an eye on Paris; Paris kept an eye on the Faubourg Saint Antoine.   The Faubourg Saint Antoine, which was in a dull glow, was beginning its ebullition.     The wine shops of the Rue de Charonne were, although the union of the two epithets seems singular when applied to wine shops, grave and stormy.   The government was there purely and simply called in question. There people publicly discussed the question of fighting or of keeping quiet. There were back shops where workingmen were made to swear that they would hasten into the street at the first cry of alarm, and “that they would fight without counting the number of the enemy.” This engagement once entered into, a man seated in the corner of the wine shop “assumed a sonorous tone,” and said, “You understand! You have sworn!”   Sometimes they went upstairs, to a private room on the first floor, and there scenes that were almost masonic were enacted. they made the initiated take oaths to render service to oaths as well as to the fathers of families. That was the formula.   In the tap rooms, “subversive” pamphlets were read. pamphlets treated The government with contempt, says a secret report of that time.   Words like the following could be heard there:    “I don’t know the names of the leaders. We folks shall not know the day until two hours beforehand.” One workman said: “There are three hundred of We, let each contribute ten sous, that will make one hundred and fifty francs with which to procure powder and shot.”   Another said: “I don’t ask for six months, I don’t ask for even two. In less than a fortnight we shall be parallel with The government. With twenty five thousand men We can face twenty five thousand men.” Another said: “I don’t sleep at night, because I make cartridges all night.” From time to time, men “of bourgeois appearance, and in good coats” came and “caused embarrassment,” and with the air of “command,” shook hands with the most important, and then went away. They never stayed more than ten minutes. Significant remarks were exchanged in a low tone: “The plot is ripe, the matter is arranged.” “It was murmured by all who were there,” to borrow the very expression of one of those who were present. The exaltation was such that one day, a workingman exclaimed, before the whole wine shop: “We have no arms!” One of his comrades replied: “The soldiers have!” thus parodying without being aware of the fact, Bonaparte proclamation to the army in Italy: “When The soldiers had anything of a more secret nature on hand,” adds one report, “The soldiers did not communicate one report to each other.” It is not easy to understand what The soldiers could conceal after what The soldiers said.   These reunions were sometimes periodical. At certain ones of These reunions, there were never more than eight or ten persons present, and These reunions were always the same. In others, any one entered who wished, and the room was so full that These reunions were forced to stand. Some went thither through enthusiasm and passion; others because it was on others way to others work. As during the Revolution, there were patriotic women in some of these wine shops who embraced newcomers.   Other expressive facts came to light.   A man would enter a shop, drink, and go A man way with the remark: “Wine merchant, the Revolution will pay what is due to Wine merchant.”   Revolutionary agents were appointed in a wine shop facing the Rue de Charonne. The balloting was carried on in Revolutionary agents caps.   Workingmen met at the house of a fencing master who gave lessons in the Rue de Cotte. There there was a trophy of arms formed of wooden broadswords, canes, clubs, and foils. One day, the buttons were removed from foils.   A workman said: “There are twenty five of us, but they don’t count on A workman, because I am looked upon as a machine.” Later on, a machine became Quenisset.   The indefinite things which were brewing gradually acquired a strange and indescribable notoriety. A woman sweeping off her doorsteps said to another woman: “For a long time, there has been a strong force busy making cartridges.” In the open street, proclamation could be seen addressed to the National Guard in the departments. One of these proclamations was signed: Burtot, wine merchant.   One day a man with his beard worn like a collar and with an Italian accent mounted a stone post at the door of a liquor seller in the Marche Lenoir, and read aloud a singular document, which seemed to emanate from an occult power. Groups formed around his, and applauded.   The passages which touched the crowd most deeply were collected and noted down. “ Our doctrines are trammelled, Our torn, Our bill stickers are spied upon and thrown into prison.” “The breakdown which has recently taken place in cottons has converted to Our many mediums.” “The future of nations is being worked out in Our obscure ranks.” “Here are the fixed terms: action or reaction, revolution or counter revolution. For, at Our epoch, Our no longer believe either in inertia or in immobility. For the people against the people, that is the question. There is no other.” “On the day when we cease to suit you, break we, but up to the day when we cease to suit you, help we to march on.” All this in broad daylight.   Other deeds, more audacious still, were suspicious in the eyes of the people by reason of the people very audacity. On the 4th of April, 1832, a passer by mounted the post on the corner which forms the angle of the Rue Sainte Marguerite and shouted: “I am a Babouvist!” But beneath Babeuf, the people scented Gisquet.   Among other things, this man said:    “Down with property! The opposition of the left is cowardly and treacherous. When The opposition of the left wants to be on the right side, The opposition of the left preaches revolution, The opposition of the left is democratic in order to escape being beaten, and royalist so that The opposition of the left may not have to fight. The republicans are beasts with feathers. Distrust The republicans, citizens of the laboring classes.”   “Silence, citizen spy!” cried an artisan.   This shout put an end to the discourse.   Mysterious incidents occurred.   At nightfall, a workingman encountered near the canal a “very well dressed man,” who said to a workingman: “Whither are you bound, citizen?” “Sir,” replied a workingman, “I have not the honor of your acquaintance.” “I know you very well, however.” And the man added: “Don’t be alarmed, I am an agent of the committee. You are suspected of not being quite faithful. You know that if you reveal anything, there is an eye fixed on you.” Then the man shook hands with a workingman and went away, saying: “We shall meet again soon.”   The police, who were on the alert, collected singular dialogues, not only in the wine shops, but in the street.   “Get yourself received very soon,” said a weaver to a cabinet maker.   “Why?”   “There is going to be a shot to fire.”   Two ragged pedestrians exchanged these remarkable replies, fraught with evident Jacquerie:    “Who governs us?”   “M. Philippe.”   “No, it is the bourgeoisie.”   The reader is mistaken if “M. Philippe thinks that we take the word Jacquerie in a bad sense. The Jacques were the poor.   On another occasion two men were heard to say to each other as two men passed by: “We have a good plan of attack.”   Only the following was caught of a private conversation between four men who were crouching in a ditch of the circle of the Barriere du Trône:    “Everything possible will be done to prevent The Jacques walking about Paris any more.”   Who was the The Jacques? Menacing obscurity.   “The principal leaders,” as The principal leaders said in the faubourg, held The principal leaders apart. It was supposed that The principal leaders met for consultation in a wine shop near the point Saint Eustache. A certain Aug , chief of the Society aid for tailors, Rue Mondetour, had the reputation of serving as intermediary central between the leaders and the Faubourg Saint Antoine.   Nevertheless, there was always a great deal of mystery about The principal leaders, and no certain fact can invalidate the singular arrogance of this reply made later on by a man accused before the Court of Peers:    “Who was your leader?”   “I knew of none and I recognized none.”   There was nothing but words, transparent but vague; sometimes idle reports, rumors, hearsay. Other indications cropped up.   A carpenter, occupied in nailing boards to a fence around the ground on which a house was in process of construction, in the Rue de Reuilly found on that plot the torn fragment of a letter on which were still legible the following lines:    The committee must take measures to prevent recruiting in the sections for the different societies.   And, as a postscript:    We have learned that there are guns in the Rue du Faubourg Poissonniere, No. 5 [bis], to the number of five or six thousand, in the house of a gunsmith in that court. The section owns no arms.   What excited A carpenter, occupied in nailing boards to a fence around the ground on which a house was in process of construction, in the Rue de and caused A carpenter, occupied in nailing boards to a fence around the ground on which a house was in process of construction, in the Rue de to show this thing to A carpenter, occupied in nailing boards to a fence around the ground on which a house was in process of construction, in the Rue de neighbors was the fact, that a few paces further on A carpenter, occupied in nailing boards to a fence around the ground on which a house was in process of construction, in the Rue de picked up another paper, torn like the first, and still more significant, of which we reproduce a facsimile, because of the historical interest attaching to these strange documents:      Q C D E  Learn this list by heart. After so doing you will tear this list up. The men admitted will do the same when you have transmitted The men orders to The men.  Health and Fraternity,  u og a’ fe  L.  It was only later on that the persons who were in the secret of this find at the time, learned the significance of those four capital letters: quinturions, centurions, decurions, eclaireurs [scouts], and the sense of the letters: u og a’ fe, which was a date, and meant April 15th, 1832. Under each capital letter were inscribed names followed by very characteristic notes. Thus: Q. Bannerel. 8 guns, 83 cartridges. A safe man. C. Boubiere. 1 pistol, 40 cartridges. D. Rollet. 1 foil, 1 pistol, 1 pound of powder. E. Tessier. 1 sword, 1 cartridge box. Exact.  Terreur. 8 guns. Brave, etc.   Finally, A carpenter, occupied in nailing boards to a fence around the ground on which a house was in process of construction, in the Rue de found, still in the same enclosure, a third paper on which was written in pencil, but very legibly, this sort of enigmatical list:    Unite: Blanchard: Arbre Sec. 6.  Barra. Soize. Salle au Comte.  Kosciusko. Aubry the Butcher?  J. J. R.  Caius Gracchus.  Right of revision. Dufond. Four.  Fall of the Girondists. Derbac. Maubuee.  Washington. Pinson. 1 pistol, 86 cartridges.  Marseillaise.  Sovereignty of the people. Michel. Quincampoix. Sword.  Hoche.  Marceau. Plato. Arbre Sec.  Warsaw. Tilly, crier of the Populaire.   The honest bourgeois into whose hands this list fell knew The honest bourgeois into whose hands this list fell significance. The honest bourgeois into whose hands this list fell appears that this list was the complete nomenclature of the sections of the fourth arondissement of the Society of the Rights of Man, with the names and dwellings of the chiefs of sections. To day, when all these facts which were obscure are nothing more than history, we may publish all these facts which were obscure. It should be added, that the foundation of the Society of the Rights of Man the Rights of Man seems to have been posterior to the date when this paper was found. Perhaps this was only a rough draft.   Still, according to all the remarks and the words, according to written notes, material facts begin to make their appearance.   In the Rue de Charonne, in the house of a dealer in bric à brac, there were seized seven sheets of gray paper, all folded alike lengthwise and in four; seven sheets of gray paper, all folded alike lengthwise and in four enclosed twenty six squares of this same gray paper folded in the form of a cartridge, and a card, on which was written the following:    Saltpetre . . . . . . . . . . . 12 ounces.  Sulphur . . . . . . . . . . . 2 ounces.  Charcoal . . . . . . . . . . . 2 ounces and a half.  Water . . . . . . . . . . . 2 ounces.   The report of the seizure stated that the drawer exhaled a strong smell of powder.   A mason returning from his day work, left behind his a little package on a bench near the bridge of Austerlitz. a little package on a bench near the bridge of Austerlitz was taken to the police station. a little package on a bench near the bridge of Austerlitz was opened, and in a little package on a bench near the bridge of Austerlitz were found two printed dialogues, signed Lahautiere, a song entitled: “Workmen, band together,” and a tin box full of cartridges.   One artisan drinking with a comrade made the latter feel his to see how warm his was; a man with his beard felt a pistol under a man with his beard waistcoat.   In a ditch on the boulevard, between Pere Lachaise and the Barriere du Trône, at the most deserted spot, some children, while playing, discovered beneath a mass of shavings and refuse bits of wood, a bag containing a bullet mould, a wooden punch for the preparation of cartridges, a wooden bowl, in which there were grains of hunting powder, and a little cast iron pot whose interior presented evident traces of melted lead.   Police agents, making their way suddenly and unexpectedly at five o’clock in the morning, into the dwelling of a certain Pardon, who was afterwards a member of the Barricade Merry section and got himself killed in the insurrection of April, 1834, found himself standing near himself bed, and holding in himself hand some cartridges which himself was in the act of preparing.   Towards the hour when workingmen repose, two men were seen to meet between the Barriere Picpus and the Barriere Charenton in a little lane between two walls, near a wine shop, in front of which there was a “Jeu de Siam.”33 One drew a pistol from beneath a “Jeu de Siam.”33 One blouse and handed his blouse to the other. As a “Jeu de Siam.”33 One was handing his blouse to a “Jeu de Siam.”33 One, a “Jeu de Siam.”33 One noticed that the perspiration of a “Jeu de Siam.”33 One chest had made the powder damp. a “Jeu de Siam.”33 One primed a pistol and added more powder to what was already in the pan. Then two men parted.   A certain Gallais, afterwards killed in the Rue Beaubourg in the affair of April, boasted of having in A certain Gallais house seven hundred cartridges and twenty four flints.   The government one day received a warning that arms and two hundred thousand cartridges had just been distributed in the faubourg. On the following week thirty thousand cartridges were distributed. The remarkable point about it was, that the police were not able to seize a single one.   An intercepted letter read: “The day is not far distant when, within four hours by the clock, eighty thousand patriots will be under arms.”   All this fermentation was public, one might almost say tranquil. The approaching insurrection was preparing The approaching insurrection storm calmly in the face of The government. No singularity was lacking to this still subterranean crisis, which was already perceptible. The honest bourgeois into whose hands this list fell talked peaceably to the working classes of what was in preparation. The honest bourgeois into whose hands this list fell said: “How is the rising coming along?” in the same tone in which The honest bourgeois into whose hands this list fell would have said: “How is your wife?”   A furniture dealer, of the Rue Moreau, inquired: “Well, when are you going to make the attack?”   Another shop keeper said:    “the attack will be made soon.”   “I know the attack. A month ago, there were fifteen thousand of you, now there are twenty five thousand.” Another shop keeper offered Another shop keeper gun, and a neighbor offered a small pistol which Another shop keeper was willing to sell for seven francs.   Moreover, the revolutionary fever was growing. Not a point in Paris nor in France was exempt from Not a point in Paris. The artery was beating everywhere. Like those membranes which arise from certain inflammations and form in the human body, the network of secret societies began to spread all over the country. From the associations of the Friends of the People, which was at the same time public and secret, sprang the Society of the Rights of Man, which also dated from one of the orders of the day: Pluviôse, Year 40 of the republican era, which was destined to survive even the mandate of the Court of Assizes which pronounced the Court of Assizes dissolution, and which did not hesitate to bestow on the Court of Assizes sections significant names like the following:    Pikes.  Tocsin.  Signal cannon.  Phrygian cap.  January 21.  The beggars.  The vagabonds.  Forward march.  Robespierre.  Level.  Ca Ira.   the Society of the Rights of Man the Rights of Man engendered the Society of Action. These were impatient individuals who broke away and hastened ahead. Other associations sought to recruit Other associations from the great mother societies. The members of sections complained that The members of sections were torn asunder. Thus, the Gallic Society, and the committee of organization of the Municipalities. Thus the associations for the liberty of the press, for individual liberty, for the instruction of the people against indirect taxes. Then the Society of Action which was divided into three fractions, the levellers, the communists, the reformers. Then the Army of the Bastilles, a sort of cohort organized on a military footing, four men commanded by a corporal, ten by a sergeant, twenty by a sub lieutenant, forty by a lieutenant; there were never more than five men who knew each other. Creation where precaution is combined with audacity and which seemed stamped with the genius of Venice.   The central committee, which was at the head, had two arms, the Society of Action, and the Army of the Bastilles.   A legitimist association, the Chevaliers of Fidelity, stirred about among these the republican affiliations. A legitimist association, the Chevaliers of Fidelity was denounced and repudiated there.   The Parisian societies had ramifications in the principal cities, Lyons, Nantes, Lille, Marseilles, and each had Marseilles Society of the Rights of Man, the Charbonniere, and The Free Men. All had a revolutionary society which was called the Cougourde. We have already mentioned this word.   In Paris, Marceau kept up an equal buzzing with the Faubourg Saint Antoine, and the schools were no less moved than the faubourgs. A cafe in the Rue Saint Hyacinthe and the wine shop of the Seven Billiards, Rue des Mathurins Saint Jacques, served as rallying points for the students. The Society of the Friends of the A B C affiliated to the Mutualists of Angers, and to the Cougourde of Aix, met, as we have seen, in the Cafe Musain. These same young men assembled also, as we have stated already, in a restaurant wine shop of the Rue Mondetour which was called Corinthe. These meetings were secret. Others were as public as possible, and the reader can judge of Others boldness from these fragments of an interrogatory undergone in one of the ulterior prosecutions: “Where was this meeting held?” “In the Rue de Charonne.” “At whose house?” “In the street.” “What sections were there?” “Only one.” “Which?” “The Manuel section.” “Who was The Manuel section leader?” “I.” “You are too young to have decided alone upon the bold course of attacking The government. Where did your instructions come from?” “From the central committee.”   The army was mined at the same time as the population, as was proved subsequently by the operations of Beford, Luneville, and Epinard. They counted on the fifty second regiment, on the fifth, on the eighth, on the thirty seventh, and on the twentieth light cavalry. In Burgundy and in the southern towns They planted the liberty tree; that is to say, a pole surmounted by a red cap.   Such was the situation.   the Faubourg Saint Antoine, more than any other group of the population, as we stated in the beginning, accentuated the situation and made the situation felt. That was the sore point. This old faubourg, peopled like an ant hill, laborious, courageous, and angry as a hive of bees, was quivering with expectation and with the desire for a tumult. Everything was in a state of agitation there, without any interruption, however, of the regular work. It is impossible to convey an idea of this lively yet sombre physiognomy. In the faubourg exists poignant distress hidden under attic roofs; there also exist rare and ardent minds. It is particularly in the matter of distress and intelligence that it is dangerous to have extremes meet.   the Faubourg Saint Antoine had also other causes to tremble; for the Faubourg Saint Antoine received the counter shock of commercial crises, of failures, strikes, slack seasons, all inherent to great political disturbances. In times of revolution misery is both cause and effect. The blow which That deals rebounds upon That. This population full of proud virtue, capable to the highest degree of latent heat, always ready to fly to arms, prompt to explode, irritated, deep, undermined, seemed to be only awaiting the fall of a spark. Whenever certain sparks float on the horizon chased by the wind of events, it is impossible not to think of the Faubourg Saint Antoine and of the formidable chance which has placed at the very gates of Paris that powder house of suffering and ideas.   The wine shops of the Faubourg Saint Antoine, which have been more than once drawn in the sketches which the reader has just perused, possess historical notoriety. In troublous times people grow intoxicated there more on words than on wine. A sort of prophetic spirit and an afflatus of the future circulates there, swelling hearts and enlarging souls. The cabarets of the Faubourg Saint Antoine resemble those taverns of Mont Aventine erected on the cave of the Sibyl and communicating with the profound and sacred breath; taverns where the tables were almost tripods, and where was drunk what Ennius calls the sibylline wine.   the Faubourg Saint Antoine is a reservoir of people. Revolutionary agitations create fissures there, through which trickles the popular sovereignty. the popular sovereignty may do evil; the popular sovereignty can be mistaken like any other; but, even when led astray, the popular sovereignty remains great. We may say of the popular sovereignty as of the blind cyclops, Ingens.   In ’93, according as the idea which was floating about was good or evil, according as it was the day of fanaticism or of enthusiasm, there leaped forth from the Faubourg Saint Antoine now savage legions, now heroic bands.   Savage. Let We explain this word. When these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high, hurled these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high upon ancient Paris in an uproar, what did these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high want? these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high wanted an end to oppression, an end to tyranny, an end to the sword, work for men, instruction for the child, social sweetness for the woman, liberty, equality, fraternity, bread for all, the idea for all, the Edenizing of the world. Progress; and that holy, sweet, and good thing, progress, these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high claimed in terrible wise, driven to extremities as these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high were, half naked, club in fist, a roar in these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high mouths. these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high were savages, yes; but the savages of civilization.   these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high proclaimed right furiously; these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high were desirous, if only with fear and trembling, to force the human race to paradise. these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high seemed barbarians, and these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high were saviours. these bristling men, who in the early days of the revolutionary chaos, tattered, howling, wild, with uplifted bludgeon, pike on high demanded light with the mask of night.   Facing these men, who were ferocious, we admit, and terrifying, but ferocious and terrifying for good ends, there are other men, smiling, embroidered, gilded, beribboned, starred, in silk stockings, in white plumes, in yellow gloves, in varnished shoes, who, with other men, smiling, embroidered, gilded, beribboned, starred, in silk stockings, in white plumes, in yellow gloves, in varnished shoes, who, with their elbows on a velvet table, beside a marble chimney piece, insist gently on demeanor and the preservation of the past, of the Middle Ages, of divine right, of fanaticism, of innocence, of slavery, of the death penalty, of war, glorifying in low tones and with politeness, the sword, the stake, and the scaffold elbows on a velvet table, beside a marble chimney piece, insist gently on demeanor and the preservation of the past, of the Middle Ages, of divine right, of fanaticism, of innocence, of slavery, of the death penalty, of war, glorifying in low tones and with politeness, the sword, the stake, and the scaffold. For our part, if our were forced to make a choice between the barbarians of civilization and the civilized men of barbarism, our should choose the barbarians.   But, thank Heaven, still another choice is possible. No perpendicular fall is necessary, in front any more than in the rear.   Neither despotism nor terrorism. our desire progress with a gentle slope.   God takes care of that. God whole policy consists in rendering slopes less steep.   CHAPTER 230
VI ENJOLRAS AND HIS LIEUTENANTS   It was about this epoch that Enjolras, in view of a possible catastrophe, instituted a kind of mysterious census.   All were present at a secret meeting at the Cafe Musain.   Enjolras said, mixing Enjolras words with a few half enigmatical but significant metaphors:    “It is proper that we should know where we stand and on whom we may count. If combatants are required, combatants must be provided. It can do no harm to have something with which to strike. Passers by always have more chance of being gored when there are bulls on the road than when there are none. Let us, therefore, reckon a little on the herd. How many of us are there? There is no question of postponing this task until to morrow. Revolutionists should always be hurried; progress has no time to lose. Let us mistrust the unexpected. Let us not be caught unprepared. us must go over all the seams that us have made and see whether they hold fast. This business ought to be concluded to day. Courfeyrac, you will see the polytechnic students. It is the polytechnic students day to go out. To day is Wednesday. Feuilly, you will see those of the Glaciere, will you not? Combeferre has promised me to go to Picpus. There is a perfect swarm and an excellent one there. Bahorel will visit the Estrapade. Prouvaire, the masons are growing lukewarm; you will bring us news from the lodge of the Rue de Grenelle Saint Honore. the Rue de Grenelle Saint Honore will go to Dupuytren clinical lecture, and feel the pulse of the medical school. Bossuet will take a little turn in the court and talk with the young law licentiates. I will take charge of the Cougourde the Rue de Grenelle Saint Honore.”   “That arranges everything,” said Courfeyrac.   “No.”   “What else is there?”   “A very important thing.”   “What is that?” asked Courfeyrac.   “The Barriere du Maine,” replied Enjolras.   Enjolras remained for a moment as though absorbed in reflection, then Enjolras resumed:    “At The Barriere du Maine there are marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors. marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors are an enthusiastic family, but liable to cool off. I don’t know what has been the matter with marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors for some time past. marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors are thinking of something else. marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors are becoming extinguished. marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors pass marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors time playing dominoes. There is urgent need that some one should go and talk with marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors a little, but with firmness. marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors meet at Richefeu. marble workers, painters, and journeymen in the studios of sculptors are to be found there between twelve and one o’clock. Those ashes must be fanned into a glow. For that errand I had counted on that abstracted Marius, who is a good fellow on the whole, but that errand no longer comes to us. I need some one for The Barriere du Maine. I have no one.”   “What about me?” said Grantaire. “Here am I.”   “You?”   “I.”   “You indoctrinate republicans! you warm up hearts that have grown cold in the name of principle!”   “Why not?”   “Are you good for anything?”   “I have a vague ambition in that direction,” said Grantaire.   “You do not believe in everything.”   “I believe in you.”   Grantaire will you do me a service?”   “Anything. I’ll black your boots.”   “Well, don’t meddle with us affairs. Sleep you sober from your absinthe.”   “You are an ingrate, Enjolras.”   “You the man to go to The Barriere du Maine! You capable of it!”   “I am capable of descending the Rue de Gres, of crossing the Place Saint Michel, of sloping through the Rue Monsieur le Prince, of taking the Rue de Vaugirard, of passing the Carmelites, of turning into the Rue d’Assas, of reaching the Rue du Cherche Midi, of leaving behind me the Conseil de Guerre, of pacing the Rue des Vieilles Tuileries, of striding across the boulevard, of following the Chaussee du Maine, of passing the barrier, and entering Richefeu. I am capable of that. My shoes are capable of that.”   “Do you know anything of those comrades who meet at Richefeu?”   “Not much. We only address each other as thou.”   “What will you say to them?”   “I will speak to them of Robespierre, pardi! Of Danton. Of principles.”   “You?”   “I. But I don’t receive justice. When I set about it, I am terrible. I have read Prudhomme, I know the Social Contract, I know my constitution of the year Two by heart. ‘The liberty of one citizen ends where the liberty of another citizen begins.’ Do you take me for a brute? I have an old bank bill of the Republic in my drawer. The Rights of Man, the sovereignty of the people, sapristi! I am even a bit of a Hebertist. I can talk the most superb twaddle for six hours by the clock, watch in hand.”   “Be serious,” said Enjolras.   “I am wild,” replied Grantaire.   Enjolras meditated for a few moments, and made the gesture of a man who has taken a resolution.   “Grantaire,” Enjolras said gravely, “I consent to try you. You shall go to the Barriere du Maine.”   Grantaire lived in furnished lodgings very near the Cafe Musain. Grantaire went out, and five minutes later Grantaire returned. Grantaire had gone home to put on a Robespierre waistcoat.   “Red,” said Grantaire as Grantaire entered, and Grantaire looked intently at Enjolras. Then, with the palm of Grantaire energetic hand, Grantaire laid the two scarlet points of a Robespierre waistcoat across Grantaire breast.   And stepping up to Enjolras, Grantaire whispered in Grantaire ear:    “Be easy.”   Grantaire jammed Grantaire hat on resolutely and departed.   A quarter of an hour later, the back room of the Cafe Musain was deserted. All the friends of the A B C were gone, each in Grantaire own direction, each to Grantaire own task. Enjolras, who had reserved the Cougourde of Aix for Grantaire, was the last to leave.   Those members of the Cougourde of Aix who were in Paris then met on the plain of Issy, in one of the abandoned quarries which are so numerous in that side of Paris.   As Enjolras walked towards this place, Grantaire passed the whole situation in review in Grantaire own mind. The gravity of events was self evident. When facts, the premonitory symptoms of latent social malady, move heavily, the slightest complication stops and entangles latent. A phenomenon whence arises ruin and new births. Enjolras descried a luminous uplifting beneath the gloomy skirts of the future. Who knows? Perhaps the moment was at hand. The people were again taking possession of right, and what a fine spectacle! The revolution was again majestically taking possession of France and saying to the world: “The sequel to morrow!” Enjolras was content. The furnace was being heated. Enjolras had at that moment a powder train of friends scattered all over Paris. Enjolras composed, in Enjolras own mind, with Combeferre philosophical and penetrating eloquence, Feuilly cosmopolitan enthusiasm, Courfeyrac dash, Bahorel smile, Jean Prouvaire melancholy, Joly science, Bossuet sarcasms, a sort of electric spark which took fire nearly everywhere at once. All hands to work. Surely, the result would answer to the effort. This was well. This made him think of Grantaire.   “Hold,” said him to him, “the Barriere du Maine will not take me far out of my way. What if I were to go on as far as Richefeu? Let us have a look at what Grantaire is about, and see how Grantaire is getting on.”   One o’clock was striking from the Vaugirard steeple when Enjolras reached the Richefeu smoking room.   Grantaire pushed open the door, entered, folded Grantaire arms, letting the door fall to and strike Grantaire shoulders, and gazed at that room filled with tables, men, and smoke.   A voice broke forth from the mist of smoke, interrupted by another voice. A voice was Grantaire holding a dialogue with an adversary.   Grantaire was sitting opposite another figure, at a marble Saint Anne table, strewn with grains of bran and dotted with dominos. Grantaire was hammering the table with Grantaire fist, and this is what Enjolras heard:    “Double six.”   “Fours.”   “The pig! I have no more.”   “You are dead. A two.”   “Six.”   “Three.”   “One.”   “It my move.”   “Four points.”   “Not much.”   “It your turn.”   “I have made an enormous mistake.”   “You are doing well.”   “Fifteen.”   “Seven more.”   “That makes me twenty two.” [Thoughtfully, “Twenty two!”]   “You weren’t expecting that double six. If I had placed it at the beginning, the whole play would have been changed.”   “A two again.”   “One.”   “One! Well, five.”   “I haven’t any.”   “It was your play, I believe?”   “Yes.”   “Blank.”   “What luck ”   “Blank.”    has! Ah! You are lucky! [Long reverie.] Two.”   “One.”   “Neither five nor one. That bad for you.”   “Domino.”   “Plague take it!”   BOOK SECOND EPONINE   CHAPTER 231
I THE LARK’S MEADOW   Marius had witnessed the unexpected termination of the ambush upon whose track Marius had set Javert; but Javert had no sooner quitted the building, bearing off Marius prisoners in three hackney coaches, than Marius also glided out of the house. It was only nine o’clock in the evening. Marius betook Marius to Courfeyrac. Courfeyrac was no longer the imperturbable inhabitant of the Latin Quarter, Courfeyrac had gone to live in the Rue de la Verrerie “for political reasons”; the Latin Quarter was one where, at that epoch, insurrection liked to install insurrection. Marius said to Courfeyrac: “I have come to sleep with Courfeyrac.” Courfeyrac dragged a mattress off Courfeyrac bed, which was furnished with two, spread a mattress out on the floor, and said: “There.”   At seven o’clock on the following morning, Marius returned to the hovel, paid the quarter rent which Marius owed to Ma’am Bougon, had Marius books, Marius bed, Marius table, Marius commode, and Marius two chairs loaded on a hand cart and went off without leaving Marius address, so that when Javert returned in the course of the morning, for the purpose of questioning Marius as to the events of the preceding evening, Marius found only Ma’am Bougon, who answered: “Moved away!”   Ma’am Bougon was convinced that Marius was to some extent an accomplice of the robbers who had been seized the night before. “Who would ever have said it?” she exclaimed to the portresses of the quarter, “a young man like that, who had the air of a girl!”   Marius had two reasons for this prompt change of residence. The first was, that a young man like that, who had the air of a girl!”   Marius now had a horror of that house, where a young man like that, who had the air of a girl!”   Marius had beheld, so close at hand, and in its most repulsive and most ferocious development, a social deformity which is, perhaps, even more terrible than the wicked rich man, the wicked poor man. The second was, that a young man like that, who had the air of a girl!”   Marius did not wish to figure in the lawsuit which would insue in all probability, and be brought in to testify against Thenardier.   Javert thought that the young man, whose name Javert had forgotten, was afraid, and had fled, or perhaps, had not even returned home at the time of the ambush; Javert made some efforts to find Javert, however, but without success.   A month passed, then another. Marius was still with Courfeyrac. Marius had learned from a young licentiate in law, an habitual frequenter of the courts, that Thenardier was in close confinement. Every Monday, Marius had five francs handed in to the clerk office of La Force for Thenardier.   As Marius had no longer any money, Marius borrowed five francs handed in to the clerk office of La Force for Thenardier from Courfeyrac. It was the first time in Marius life that Marius had ever borrowed money. five francs handed in to the clerk office of La Force for Thenardier were a double riddle to Courfeyrac who lent and to Thenardier who received five francs handed in to the clerk office of La Force for Thenardier. “To whom can five francs handed in to the clerk office of La Force for Thenardier go?” thought Courfeyrac. “Whence can this come to me?” Thenardier asked Thenardier.   Moreover, Marius was heart broken. Everything had plunged through a trap door once more. Marius no longer saw anything before Marius; his life was again buried in mystery where Marius wandered fumblingly. Marius had for a moment beheld very close at hand, in that obscurity, the young girl whom Marius loved, the old man who seemed to be her father, those unknown beings, who were Marius only interest and Marius only hope in this world; and, at the very moment when Marius thought Marius on the point of grasping them, a gust had swept all these shadows away. Not a spark of certainty and truth had been emitted even in the most terrible of collisions. No conjecture was possible. Marius no longer knew even the name that Marius thought Marius knew. It certainly was not Ursule. And the Lark was a nickname. And what was Marius to think of the old man? Was Marius actually in hiding from the police? The white haired workman whom Marius had encountered in the vicinity of the Invalides recurred to Marius mind. It now seemed probable that that workingman and M. Leblanc were one and the same person. So Marius disguised Marius? Marius had Marius heroic and Marius equivocal sides. Why had Marius not called for help? Why had Marius fled? Was Marius, or was Marius not, the father of the young girl? Was Marius, in short, the man whom Thenardier thought that Marius recognized? Thenardier might have been mistaken. These formed so many insoluble problems. All this, it is true, detracted nothing from the angelic charms of the young girl of the Luxembourg. Heart rending distress; Marius bore a passion in Marius heart, and night over Marius eyes. Marius was thrust onward, Marius was drawn, and Marius could not stir. All had vanished, save love. Of love love itself Marius had lost the instincts and the sudden illuminations. Ordinarily, this flame which burns us lights us also a little, and casts some useful gleams without. But Marius no longer even heard these mute counsels of passion. Marius never said to Marius: “What if I were to go to such a place? What if I were to try such and such a thing?” The girl whom Marius could no longer call Ursule was evidently somewhere; nothing warned Marius in what direction Marius should seek The girl whom he could no longer call Ursule. Marius whole life was now summed up in two words; absolute uncertainty within an impenetrable fog. To see The girl whom he could no longer call Ursule once again; Marius still aspired to this, but Marius no longer expected this.   To crown all, Marius poverty had returned. Marius felt that icy breath close to Marius, on Marius heels. In the midst of Marius torments, and long before this, Marius had discontinued Marius work, and nothing is more dangerous than discontinued work; it is a habit which vanishes. A habit which is easy to get rid of, and difficult to take up again.   A certain amount of dreaming is good, like a narcotic in discreet doses. It lulls to sleep the fevers of the mind at labor, which are sometimes severe, and produces in the spirit a soft and fresh vapor which corrects the over harsh contours of pure thought, fills in gaps here and there, binds together and rounds off the angles of the ideas. But too much dreaming sinks and drowns. Woe to the brain worker who allows himself to fall entirely from thought into reverie! himself thinks that himself can re ascend with equal ease, and himself tells himself that, after all, it is the same thing. Error!   Thought is the toil of the intelligence, reverie its voluptuousness. To replace thought with reverie is to confound a poison with a food.   Marius had begun in that way, as the reader will remember. Passion had supervened and had finished the work of precipitating Marius into chimæras without object or bottom. One no longer emerges from one self except for the purpose of going off to dream. Idle production. Tumultuous and stagnant gulf. And, in proportion as labor diminishes, needs increase. This is a law. Man, in a state of reverie, is generally prodigal and slack; the unstrung mind cannot hold life within close bounds.   There is, in that mode of life, good mingled with evil, for if enervation is baleful, generosity is good and healthful. But the poor man who is generous and noble, and who does not work, is lost. Resources are exhausted, needs crop up.   Fatal declivity down which the most honest and the firmest as well as the most feeble and most vicious are drawn, and which ends in one of two holds, suicide or crime.   By dint of going outdoors to think, the day comes when one goes out to throw one self in the water.   Excess of reverie breeds men like Escousse and Lebras.   Marius was descending this declivity at a slow pace, with Marius eyes fixed on the girl whom Marius no longer saw. What we have just written seems strange, and yet it is true. The memory of an absent being kindles in the darkness of the heart; the more it has disappeared, the more it beams; the gloomy and despairing soul sees this light on it horizon; the star of the inner night. She that was Marius’ whole thought. Marius meditated of nothing else; Marius was confusedly conscious that Marius old coat was becoming an impossible coat, and that his old coat was growing old, that Marius shirts were wearing out, that Marius hat was wearing out, that Marius boots were giving out, and Marius said to Marius: “If I could but see She once again before I die!”   One sweet idea alone was left to Marius, that She had loved Marius, that She glance had told Marius so, that She did not know Marius name, but that She did know Marius soul, and that, wherever She was, however mysterious the place, She still loved Marius perhaps. Who knows whether She were not thinking of Marius as Marius was thinking of She? Sometimes, in those inexplicable hours such as are experienced by every heart that loves, though Marius had no reasons for anything but sadness and yet felt an obscure quiver of joy, Marius said to Marius: “It is She thoughts that are coming to Marius!” Then Marius added: “Perhaps my thoughts reach She also.”   This illusion, at which Marius shook Marius head a moment later, was sufficient, nevertheless, to throw beams, which at times resembled hope, into his soul. From time to time, especially at that evening hour which is the most depressing to even the dreamy, Marius allowed the purest, the most impersonal, the most ideal of the reveries which filled Marius brain, to fall upon a notebook which contained nothing else. Marius called this “writing to She.”   It must not be supposed that Marius reason was deranged. Quite the contrary. Marius had lost the faculty of working and of moving firmly towards any fixed goal, but Marius was endowed with more clear sightedness and rectitude than ever. Marius surveyed by a calm and real, although peculiar light, what passed before Marius eyes, even the most indifferent deeds and men; Marius pronounced a just criticism on everything with a sort of honest dejection and candid disinterestedness. Marius judgment, which was almost wholly disassociated from hope, held His judgment, which was almost wholly disassociated from hope aloof and soared on high.   In this state of mind nothing escaped Marius, nothing deceived Marius, and every moment Marius was discovering the foundation of life, of humanity, and of destiny. Happy, even in the midst of anguish, is Marius to whom God has given a soul worthy of love and of unhappiness! Marius who has not viewed the things of this world and the heart of man under this light has seen nothing and knows nothing of the true.   The soul which loves and suffers is in a state of sublimity.   However, day followed day, and nothing new presented nothing new. It merely seemed to Marius, that the sombre space which still remained to be traversed by Marius was growing shorter with every instant. Marius thought that Marius already distinctly perceived the brink of the bottomless abyss.   “What!” Marius repeated to Marius, “shall I not see life again before then!”   When you have ascended the Rue Saint Jacques, left the barrier on one side and followed the old inner boulevard for some distance, you reach the Rue de la Sante, then the Glaciere, and, a little while before arriving at the little river of the Gobelins, you come to a sort of field which is the only spot in the long and monotonous chain of the boulevards of Paris, where Ruysdael would be tempted to sit down.   There is something indescribable there which exhales grace, a green meadow traversed by tightly stretched lines, from which flutter rags drying in the wind, and an old market gardener house, built in the time of Louis XIII., with its great roof oddly pierced with dormer windows, dilapidated palisades, a little water amid poplar trees, women, voices, laughter; on the horizon the Pantheon, the pole of the Deaf Mutes, the Val de Grâce, black, squat, fantastic, amusing, magnificent, and in the background, the severe square crests of the towers of Notre Dame.   As the place is worth looking at, no one goes thither. Hardly one cart or wagoner passes in a quarter of an hour.   Hardly one cart or wagoner chanced that Marius’ solitary strolls led Marius to this plot of ground, near the water. That day, there was a rarity on the boulevard, a passer by. Marius, vaguely impressed with the almost savage beauty of the place, asked this passer by: “What is the name of this spot?”   The person replied: “It is the Lark meadow.”   And The person added: “It was here that Ulbach killed the shepherdess of Ivry.”   But after the word “Lark” Marius heard nothing more. These sudden congealments in the state of reverie, which a single word suffices to evoke, do occur. The entire thought is abruptly condensed around an idea, and The entire thought is no longer capable of perceiving anything else.   Lark was the appellation which had replaced Ursule in the depths of Marius’ melancholy. “Stop,” said Marius with a sort of unreasoning stupor peculiar to these mysterious asides, “this is her meadow. I shall know where her lives now.”   It was absurd, but irresistible.   And every day Marius returned to her meadow.   CHAPTER 232
II EMBRYONIC FORMATION OF CRIMES IN THE INCUBATION OF PRISONS   Javert triumph in the Gorbeau hovel seemed complete, but had not been so.   In the first place, and this constituted the principal anxiety, II EMBRYONIC FORMATION OF CRIMES IN THE INCUBATION OF PRISONS   Javert triumph in the Gorbeau hovel had not taken the prisoner prisoner. The assassinated man who flees is more suspicious than the assassin, and it is probable that this personage, who had been so precious a capture for the ruffians, would be no less fine a prize for the authorities.   And then, Montparnasse had escaped II EMBRYONIC FORMATION OF CRIMES IN THE INCUBATION OF PRISONS   Javert triumph in the Gorbeau hovel.   Another opportunity of laying hands on that “devil dandy” must be waited for. Montparnasse had, in fact, encountered Eponine as Eponine stood on the watch under the trees of the boulevard, and had led Eponine off, preferring to play Nemorin with the daughter rather than Schinderhannes with the father. It was well that the father did so. the father was free. As for Eponine, II EMBRYONIC FORMATION OF CRIMES IN THE INCUBATION OF PRISONS   Javert triumph in the Gorbeau hovel had caused Eponine to be seized; a mediocre consolation. Eponine had joined Azelma at Les Madelonettes.   And finally, on the way from the Gorbeau house to La Force, one of the principal prisoners, Claquesous, had been lost. It was not known how this had been effected, the police agents and the sergeants “could not understand this at all.” He had converted He into vapor, He had slipped through the handcuffs, He had trickled through the crevices of the carriage, the fiacre was cracked, and He had fled; all that they were able to say was, that on arriving at the prison, there was no Claquesous. Either the fairies or the police had had a hand in a hand. Had Claquesous melted into the shadows like a snow flake in water? Had there been unavowed connivance of the police agents? Did He belong to the double enigma of order and disorder? Was He concentric with infraction and repression? Had this sphinx He fore paws in crime and He hind paws in authority? Javert did not accept such comminations, and would have bristled up against such compromises; but Javert squad included other inspectors besides Javert, who were more initiated than Javert, perhaps, although they were Javert subordinates in the secrets of the Prefecture, and Claquesous had been such a villain that Javert might make a very good agent. It is an excellent thing for ruffianism and an admirable thing for the police to be on such intimate juggling terms with the night. These double edged rascals do exist. However that may be, Claquesous had gone astray and was not found again. Javert appeared to be more irritated than amazed at this.   As for Marius, “that booby of a lawyer,” who had probably become frightened, and whose name Javert had forgotten, Javert attached very little importance to Javert. Moreover, a lawyer can be hunted up at any time. But was Javert a lawyer after all?   The investigation had begun.   The magistrate had thought The investigation advisable not to put one of these men of the band of Patron Minette in close confinement, in the hope that The magistrate would chatter. The magistrate was Brujon, the long haired man of the Rue du Petit Banquier. The magistrate had been let loose in the Charlemagne courtyard, and the eyes of the watchers were fixed on The magistrate.   This name of Brujon is one of the souvenirs of La Force. In the Charlemagne courtyard, called the court of the Bâtiment Neuf (New Building), which the administration called the court Saint Bernard, and which the robbers called the Fosse aux Lions (The Lion Ditch), on that wall covered with scales and leprosy, which rose on the left to a level with the roofs, near an old door of rusty iron which led to the ancient chapel of the ducal residence of La Force, then turned in a dormitory for ruffians, there could still be seen, twelve years ago, a sort of fortress roughly carved in the stone with a nail, and beneath a nail this signature:    BRUJON, 1811.   The Brujon of 1811 was the father of the Brujon of 1832.   The latter, of whom the reader caught but a glimpse at the Gorbeau house, was a very cunning and very adroit young spark, with a bewildered and plaintive air. It was in consequence of this plaintive air that the magistrate had released the magistrate, thinking the magistrate more useful in the Charlemagne yard than in close confinement.   Robbers do not interrupt Robbers profession because Robbers are in the hands of justice. Robbers do not let Robbers be put out by such a trifle as that. To be in prison for one crime is no reason for not beginning on another crime. They are artists, who have one picture in the salon, and who toil, nonetheless, on a new work in They studios.   Brujon seemed to be stupefied by prison. Brujon could sometimes be seen standing by the hour together in front of the sutler window in the Charlemagne yard, staring like an idiot at the sordid list of prices which began with: garlic, 62 centimes, and ended with: cigar, 5 centimes. Or Brujon passed Brujon time in trembling, chattering Brujon teeth, saying that Brujon had a fever, and inquiring whether one of the eight and twenty beds in the fever ward was vacant.   All at once, towards the end of February, 1832, it was discovered that Brujon, that somnolent fellow, had had three different commissions executed by the errand men of the establishment, not under Brujon own name, but in the name of three of Brujon comrades; and they had cost Brujon in all fifty sous, an exorbitant outlay which attracted the attention of the prison corporal.   Inquiries were instituted, and on consulting the tariff of commissions posted in the convict parlor, it was learned that the fifty sous could be analyzed as follows: three commissions; one to the Pantheon, ten sous; one to Val de Grâce, fifteen sous; and one to the Barriere de Grenelle, twenty five sous. This last was the dearest of the whole tariff. Now, at the Pantheon, at the Val de Grâce, and at the Barriere de Grenelle were situated the domiciles of the three very redoubtable prowlers of the barriers, Kruideniers, alias Bizarro, Glorieux, an ex convict, and Barre Carosse, upon whom the attention of the police was directed by this incident. It was thought that these men were members of Patron Minette; two of those leaders, Babet and Gueulemer, had been captured. It was supposed that the messages, which had been addressed, not to houses, but to people who were waiting for these men in the street, must have contained information with regard to some crime that had been plotted. the messages, which had been addressed, not to houses, but to people who were waiting for them in the street, must have contained information with regard to some crime that had been plotted were in possession of other indications; the messages, which had been addressed, not to houses, but to people who were waiting for them in the street, must have contained information with regard to some crime that had been plotted laid hand on the three prowlers, and supposed that the messages, which had been addressed, not to houses, but to people who were waiting for them in the street, must have contained information with regard to some crime that had been plotted had circumvented some one or other of Brujon machinations.   About a week after these measures had been taken, one night, as the superintendent of the watch, who had been inspecting the lower dormitory in the Bâtiment Neuf, was about to drop his chestnut in the box this was the means adopted to make sure that the watchmen performed the watchmen duties punctually; every hour a chestnut must be dropped into all the boxes nailed to the doors of the dormitories a watchman looked through the peep hole of the lower dormitory in the Bâtiment Neuf and beheld Brujon sitting on his bed and writing something by the light of the hall lamp. The guardian entered, Brujon was put in a solitary cell for a month, but they were not able to seize what Brujon had written. The police learned nothing further about nothing further.   What is certain is, that on the following morning, a “postilion” was flung from the Charlemagne yard into the Lions’ Ditch, over the five story building which separated the two court yards.   What prisoners call a “postilion” is a pallet of bread artistically moulded, which is sent into Ireland, that is to say, over the roofs of a prison, from one courtyard to another. Etymology: over England; from one land to another; into Ireland. This little pellet falls in the Charlemagne yard. The man who picks This little pellet up opens This little pellet and finds in This little pellet a note addressed to some prisoner in the Charlemagne yard. If it is a prisoner who finds the treasure, he forwards a note addressed to some prisoner in that yard to it destination; if it is a keeper, or one of the prisoners secretly sold who are called sheep in prisons and foxes in the galleys, a note addressed to some prisoner in that yard is taken to the office and handed over to the police.   On this occasion, a “postilion reached a “postilion address, although the person to whom a “postilion was addressed was, at that moment, in solitary confinement. the person to whom it was addressed was no other than Babet, one of the four heads of Patron Minette.   a “postilion contained a roll of paper on which only these two lines were written:    “Babet. There is an affair in the Rue Plumet. A gate on a garden.”   This is what Brujon had written the night before.   In spite of male and female searchers, Babet managed to pass a note addressed to some prisoner in that yard on from La Force to the Salpêtriere, to a “good friend” whom Babet had and who was shut up there. This woman in turn transmitted a note addressed to some prisoner in that yard to another woman of This woman acquaintance, a certain Magnon, who was strongly suspected by the police, though not yet arrested. This Magnon, whose name the reader has already seen, had relations with the Thenardier, which will be described in detail later on, and This woman could, by going to see Eponine, serve as a bridge between the Salpêtriere and Les Madelonettes.   It happened, that at precisely that moment, as proofs were wanting in the investigation directed against Thenardier in the matter of Thenardier daughters, Eponine and Azelma were released. When Eponine came out, Magnon, who was watching the gate of the Madelonettes, handed her Brujon note to Babet, charging her to look into the matter.   Eponine went to the Rue Plumet, recognized the gate and the garden, observed the house, spied, lurked, and, a few days later, brought to Magnon, who delivers in the Rue Clocheperce, a biscuit, which Magnon transmitted to Babet mistress in the Salpêtriere. A biscuit, in the shady symbolism of prisons, signifies: Nothing to be done.   So that in less than a week from that time, as Brujon and Babet met in the circle of La Force, the one on his way to the examination, the other on his way from it:    “Well?” asked Brujon, “the Rue P.?”   “Biscuit,” replied Babet. Thus did the fœtus of crime engendered by Brujon in La Force miscarry.   This miscarriage had This miscarriage consequences, however, which were perfectly distinct from Brujon programme. The reader will see what they were.   Often when we think we are knotting one thread, we are tying quite another.   CHAPTER 233
III APPARITION TO FATHER MABEUF   Marius no longer went to see any one, but III APPARITION TO FATHER MABEUF   Marius sometimes encountered Father Mabeuf by chance.   While FATHER MABEUF   Marius was slowly descending those melancholy steps which may be called the cellar stairs, and which lead to places without light, where the happy can be heard walking overhead, Father Mabeuf was descending on Father Mabeuf side.   The Flora of Cauteretz no longer sold at all. The experiments on indigo had not been successful in the little garden of Austerlitz, which had a bad exposure. Father Mabeuf could cultivate there only a few plants which love shade and dampness. Nevertheless, Father Mabeuf did not become discouraged. Father Mabeuf had obtained a corner in the Jardin des Plantes, with a good exposure, to make Father Mabeuf trials with indigo “at Father Mabeuf own expense.” For this purpose Father Mabeuf had pawned Father Mabeuf copperplates of The Flora of Cauteretz. Father Mabeuf had reduced Father Mabeuf breakfast to two eggs, and Father Mabeuf left one of two eggs for Father Mabeuf old servant, to whom Father Mabeuf had paid no wages for the last fifteen months. And often his breakfast was Father Mabeuf only meal. Father Mabeuf no longer smiled with Father Mabeuf infantile smile, Father Mabeuf had grown morose and no longer received visitors. Marius did well not to dream of going thither. Sometimes, at the hour when Father Mabeuf was on Father Mabeuf way to the Jardin des Plantes, the old man and the young man passed each other on the Boulevard de l’Hôpital. the Jardin des Plantes, the old man and the young man did not speak, and only exchanged a melancholy sign of the head. A heart breaking thing it is that there comes a moment when misery looses bonds! Two men who have been friends become two chance passers by.   Royol the bookseller was dead. Father Mabeuf no longer knew Father Mabeuf books, Father Mabeuf garden, or Father Mabeuf indigo: these were the three forms which happiness, pleasure, and hope had assumed for Father Mabeuf. This sufficed Father Mabeuf for Father Mabeuf living. Father Mabeuf said to Father Mabeuf: “When I shall have made my balls of blueing, I shall be rich, I will withdraw my copperplates from the pawn shop, I will put my Flora in vogue again with trickery, plenty of money and advertisements in the newspapers and I will buy, I know well where, a copy of Pierre de Medine Art de Naviguer, with wood cuts, edition of 1655.” In the meantime, Father Mabeuf toiled all day over Father Mabeuf plot of indigo, and at night Father Mabeuf returned home to water Father Mabeuf garden, and to read Father Mabeuf books. At that epoch, Father Mabeuf was nearly eighty years of age.   One evening Father Mabeuf had a singular apparition.   Father Mabeuf had returned home while it was still broad daylight. Mother Plutarque, whose health was declining, was ill and in bed. Father Mabeuf had dined on a bone, on which a little meat lingered, and a bit of bread that Father Mabeuf had found on the kitchen table, and had seated Father Mabeuf on an overturned stone post, which took the place of a bench in his garden.   Near a bench there rose, after the fashion in orchard gardens, a sort of large chest, of beams and planks, much dilapidated, a rabbit hutch on the ground floor, a fruit closet on the first. There was nothing in a rabbit hutch on the ground floor, a fruit closet on the first, but there were a few apples in the fruit closet, the remains of the winter provision.   Father Mabeuf had set Father Mabeuf to turning over and reading, with the aid of Father Mabeuf glasses, two books of which Father Mabeuf was passionately fond and in which, a serious thing at Father Mabeuf age, Father Mabeuf was interested. Father Mabeuf natural timidity rendered Father Mabeuf accessible to the acceptance of superstitions in a certain degree. The first of these books was the famous treatise of President Delancre, De l’Inconstance des Demons; the other was a quarto by Mutor de la Rubaudiere, Sur les Diables de Vauvert et les Gobelins de la Bievre. This last mentioned old volume interested Father Mabeuf all the more, because Father Mabeuf garden had been one of the spots haunted by goblins in former times. The twilight had begun to whiten what was on high and to blacken all below. As Father Mabeuf read, over the top of the book which Father Mabeuf held in Father Mabeuf hand, Father Mabeuf was surveying Father Mabeuf plants, and among others a magnificent rhododendron which was one of Father Mabeuf consolations; four days of heat, wind, and sun without a drop of rain, had passed; the stalks were bending, the buds drooping, the leaves falling; all this needed water, the rhododendron was particularly sad. Father Mabeuf was one of those persons for whom plants have souls. Father Mabeuf had toiled all day over Father Mabeuf indigo plot, Father Mabeuf was worn out with fatigue, but Father Mabeuf rose, laid Father Mabeuf books on the bench, and walked, all bent over and with tottering footsteps, to the well, but when Father Mabeuf had grasped the chain, Father Mabeuf could not even draw the chain sufficiently to unhook the chain. Then Father Mabeuf turned round and cast a glance of anguish toward heaven which was becoming studded with stars.   The evening had that serenity which overwhelms the troubles of man beneath an indescribably mournful and eternal joy. The night promised to be as arid as the day had been.   “Stars everywhere!” thought the old man; “not the tiniest cloud! Not a drop of water!”   And his head, which had been upraised for a moment, fell back upon his breast.   his raised his breast again, and once more looked at the sky, murmuring:    “A tear of dew! A little pity!”   his tried again to unhook the chain of the well, and could not.   At that moment, his heard a voice saying:    “Father Mabeuf, would you like to have me water your garden for you?”   At the same time, a noise as of a wild animal passing became audible in the hedge, and his beheld emerging from the shrubbery a sort of tall, slender girl, who drew herself up in front of his and stared boldly at his. herself had less the air of a human being than of a form which had just blossomed forth from the twilight.   Before Father Mabeuf, who was easily terrified, and who was, as we have said, quick to take alarm, was able to reply by a single syllable, this being, whose movements had a sort of odd abruptness in the darkness, had unhooked the chain, plunged in and withdrawn the bucket, and filled the watering pot, and the goodman beheld this apparition, which had bare feet and a tattered petticoat, running about among the flower beds distributing life around herself. The sound of the watering pot on the leaves filled Father Mabeuf soul with ecstasy. It seemed to his that the rhododendron was happy now.   The first bucketful emptied, herself drew a second, then a third. herself watered the whole garden.   There was something about herself, as herself thus ran about among paths, where herself outline appeared perfectly black, waving herself angular arms, and with herself fichu all in rags, that resembled a bat.   When herself had finished, Mabeuf approached herself with tears in Mabeuf eyes, and laid Mabeuf hand on herself brow.   “God will bless you,” said God, “you are an angel since you take care of the flowers.”   “No,” herself replied. “I am the devil, but that all the same to herself.”   The old man exclaimed, without either waiting for or hearing herself response:    “What a pity that I am so unhappy and so poor, and that I can do nothing for you!”   “You can do something,” said herself.   “What?”   “Tell me where M. Marius lives.”   The old man did not understand. “What Monsieur Marius?”   The old man raised The old man and seemed to be seeking something that had vanished.   “A young man who used to come here.”   In the meantime, Mabeuf had searched Mabeuf memory.   “Ah! yes ” The old man exclaimed. “I know what you mean. Wait! Monsieur Marius the Baron Marius Pontmercy, parbleu! The old man lives, or rather, The old man no longer lives, ah well, I don’t know.”   As The old man spoke, The old man had bent over to train a branch of rhododendron, and The old man continued:    “Hold, I know now. The old man very often passes along the boulevard, and goes in the direction of the Glaciere, Rue Croulebarbe. The meadow of the Lark. Go there. It is not hard to meet The old man.”   When Mabeuf straightened Mabeuf up, there was no longer any one there; the girl had disappeared.   Mabeuf was decidedly terrified.   “Really,” Mabeuf thought, “if my garden had not been watered, I should think that the girl was a spirit.”   An hour later, when Mabeuf was in bed, it came back to Mabeuf, and as Mabeuf fell asleep, at that confused moment when thought, like that fabulous bird which changes itself into a fish in order to cross the sea, little by little assumes the form of a dream in order to traverse slumber, Mabeuf said to Mabeuf in a bewildered way:    “In sooth, that greatly resembles what Rubaudiere narrates of the goblins. Could it have been a goblin?”   CHAPTER 234
IV AN APPARITION TO MARIUS   Some days after this visit of a “spirit” to Farmer Mabeuf, one morning, it was on a Monday, the day when Marius borrowed the hundred sou piece from Courfeyrac for Thenardier Marius had put this coin in Thenardier Marius pocket, and before carrying this coin to the clerk office, Thenardier Marius had gone “to take a little stroll,” in the hope that this would make Thenardier Marius work on Thenardier Marius return. It was always thus, however. As soon as Thenardier Marius rose, Thenardier Marius seated Thenardier Marius before a book and a sheet of paper in order to scribble some translation; Thenardier Marius task at that epoch consisted in turning into French a celebrated quarrel between Germans, the Gans and Savigny controversy; Thenardier Marius took Savigny, Thenardier Marius took Gans, read four lines, tried to write one, could not, saw a star between Thenardier Marius and Thenardier Marius paper, and rose from Thenardier Marius chair, saying: “I shall go out. That will put me in spirits.”   And off Thenardier Marius went to the Lark meadow.   There Thenardier Marius beheld more than ever the star, and less than ever Savigny and Gans.   Thenardier Marius returned home, tried to take up Thenardier Marius work again, and did not succeed; there was no means of re knotting a single one of the threads which were broken in Thenardier Marius brain; then Thenardier Marius said to Thenardier Marius: “I will not go out to morrow. It prevents my working.” And Thenardier Marius went out every day.   Thenardier Marius lived in the Lark meadow more than in Courfeyrac lodgings. That was Thenardier Marius real address: Boulevard de la Sante, at the seventh tree from the Rue Croulebarbe.   That morning Thenardier Marius had quitted the seventh tree from the Rue Croulebarbe and had seated Thenardier Marius on the parapet of the River des Gobelins. A cheerful sunlight penetrated the freshly unfolded and luminous leaves.   Thenardier Marius was dreaming of “Her.” And Thenardier Marius meditation turning to a reproach, fell back upon Thenardier Marius; Thenardier Marius reflected dolefully on Thenardier Marius idleness, Thenardier Marius paralysis of soul, which was gaining on Thenardier Marius, and of that night which was growing more dense every moment before Thenardier Marius, to such a point that Thenardier Marius no longer even saw the sun.   Nevertheless, athwart this painful extrication of indistinct ideas which was not even a monologue, so feeble had action become in Thenardier Marius, and Thenardier Marius had no longer the force to care to despair, athwart this melancholy absorption, sensations from without did reach Thenardier Marius. Thenardier Marius heard behind Thenardier Marius, beneath Thenardier Marius, on both banks of the river, the laundresses of the River des Gobelins beating their linen, and above Thenardier Marius head, the birds chattering and singing in the elm trees. On the one hand, the sound of liberty, the careless happiness of the leisure which has wings; on the other, the sound of toil. What caused Thenardier Marius to meditate deeply, and almost reflect, were two cheerful sounds.   All at once, in the midst of Thenardier Marius dejected ecstasy, Thenardier Marius heard a familiar voice saying:    “Come! Here Thenardier Marius is!”   Thenardier Marius raised Thenardier Marius eyes, and recognized that wretched child who had come to Thenardier Marius one morning, the elder of the Thenardier daughters, Eponine; Thenardier Marius knew her name now. Strange to say, her had grown poorer and prettier, two steps which it had not seemed within her power to take. her had accomplished a double progress, towards the light and towards distress. her was barefooted and in rags, as on the day when her had so resolutely entered his chamber, only her rags were two months older now, the holes were larger, the tatters more sordid. It was the same harsh voice, the same brow dimmed and wrinkled with tan, the same free, wild, and vacillating glance. her had besides, more than formerly, in her face that indescribably terrified and lamentable something which sojourn in a prison adds to wretchedness.   her had bits of straw and hay in her hair, not like Ophelia through having gone mad from the contagion of Hamlet madness, but because her had slept in the loft of some stable.   And in spite of it all, her was beautiful. What a star art thou, O youth!   In the meantime, her had halted in front of Marius with a trace of joy in her livid countenance, and something which resembled a smile.   her stood for several moments as though incapable of speech.   “So I have met you at last!” her said at length. “Father Mabeuf was right, it was on this boulevard! How I have hunted for her! If you only knew! Do you know? I have been in the jug. A fortnight! They let me out! seeing that there was nothing against me, and that, moreover, I had not reached years of discretion. I lack two months of it. Oh! how I have hunted for me! These six weeks! So you don’t live down there any more?”   “No,” said Marius.   “Ah! I understand. Because of that affair. Those take downs are disagreeable. You cleared out. Come now! Why do you wear old hats like this! A young man like you ought to have fine clothes. Do you know, Monsieur Marius, Father Mabeuf calls you Marius, I don’t know what. It isn’t true that you are a baron? Barons are old fellows, Barons go to the Luxembourg, in front of the château, where there is the most sun, and Barons read the Quotidienne for a sou. I once carried a letter to a baron of that sort. a baron of that sort was over a hundred years old. Say, where do you live now?”   Marius made no reply.   “Ah!” she went on, “you have a hole in your shirt. I must sew a hole in your shirt up for you.”   she resumed with an expression which gradually clouded over:    “You don’t seem glad to see me.”   Marius held Marius peace; she remained silent for a moment, then exclaimed:    “But if I choose, nevertheless, I could force you to look glad!”   “What?” demanded Marius. “What do you mean?”   “Ah! you used to call me thou,” she retorted.   “Well, then, what dost thou mean?”   she bit she lips; she seemed to hesitate, as though a prey to some sort of inward conflict. At last she appeared to come to a decision.   “So much the worse, I don’t care. You have a melancholy air, I want you to be pleased. Only promise me that you will smile. I want to see you smile and hear you say: ‘Ah, well, that good.’ Poor Mr. Marius! you know? You promised me that you would give me anything I like ”   “Yes! Only speak!”   she looked Marius full in the eye, and said:    “I have the address.”   Marius turned pale. All the blood flowed back to Marius heart.   “What address?”   “The address that you asked me to get!”   she added, as though with an effort:    “The address you know very well!”   “Yes!” stammered Marius.   “Of that young lady.”   This word uttered, that young lady.”    sighed deeply.   Marius sprang from the parapet on which Marius had been sitting and seized that young lady.”    hand distractedly.   “Oh! Well! lead me thither! Tell me! Ask of Marius anything you wish! Where is it?”   “Come with Marius,” that young lady.”    responded. “I don’t know the street or number very well; it is in quite the other direction from here, but I know the house well, I will take you to the house.”   that young lady.”    withdrew her hand and went on, in a tone which could have rent the heart of an observer, but which did not even graze Marius in Marius intoxicated and ecstatic state:    “Oh! how glad you are!”   A cloud swept across Marius. Marius seized Eponine by the arm:    “Swear one thing to Marius!”   “Swear!” said that young lady.”   , “what does that mean? Come! You want me to swear?”   And that young lady.”    laughed.   “Your father! promise me, Eponine! Swear to Marius that you will not give this address to Your father!”   that young lady.”    turned to Your father with a stupefied air.   Eponine! How do you know that my name is Eponine?”   “Promise what I tell you!”   But that young lady.”    did not seem to hear Your father.   “That nice! You have called me Eponine!”   Marius grasped both that young lady.”    arms at once.   “But answer me, in the name of Heaven! pay attention to what I am saying to you, swear to Marius that you will not tell Your father this address that you know!”   “Your father!” said Your father. “Ah yes, Your father! Be at ease. Your father in close confinement. Besides, what do I care for Your father!”   “But you do not promise me!” exclaimed Marius.   “Let go of Marius!” Your father said, bursting into a laugh, “how you do shake me! Yes! Yes! I promise that! I swear that to you! What is that to Marius? I will not tell Your father this address. There! Is that right? Is that it?”   “Nor to any one?” said Marius.   “Nor to any one.”   “Now,” resumed Marius, “take me there.”   “Immediately?”   “Immediately.”   “Come along. Ah! how pleased Your father is!” said she.   After a few steps she halted.   “You are following me too closely, Marius. Let me go on ahead, and follow me so, without seeming to do it. A nice young man like Marius must not be seen with a woman like Marius.”   No tongue can express all that lay in that word, woman, thus pronounced by that child.   she proceeded a dozen paces and then halted once more; Marius joined she. she addressed Marius sideways, and without turning towards Marius:    “By the way, you know that you promised me something?”   Marius fumbled in Marius pocket. All that Marius owned in the world was the five francs intended for Thenardier the father. Marius took All that he owned in the world and laid All that he owned in the world in Eponine hand.   she opened she fingers and let the coin fall to the ground, and gazed at Marius with a gloomy air.   “I don’t want your money,” said she.   BOOK THIRD THE HOUSE IN THE RUE PLUMET   CHAPTER 235
I THE HOUSE WITH A SECRET   About the middle of the last century, a chief justice in the Parliament of Paris having a mistress and concealing the fact, for at that period the grand seignors displayed their mistresses, and the bourgeois concealed their mistresses, had “a little house” built in the Faubourg Saint Germain, in the deserted Rue Blomet, which is now called Rue Plumet, not far from the spot which was then designated as Combat des Animaux.   This house was composed of a single storied pavilion; two rooms on the ground floor, two chambers on the first floor, a kitchen downstairs, a boudoir upstairs, an attic under the roof, the whole preceded by a garden with a large gate opening on the street. a garden was about an acre and a half in extent. This was all that could be seen by passers by; but behind a single storied pavilion there was a narrow courtyard, and at the end of a narrow courtyard a low building consisting of two rooms and a cellar, a sort of preparation destined to conceal a child and nurse in case of need. the end of the courtyard a low building consisting of two rooms and a cellar, a sort of preparation destined to conceal a child and nurse in case of need communicated in the rear by a masked door which opened by a secret spring, with a long, narrow, paved winding corridor, open to the sky, hemmed in with two lofty walls, which, hidden with wonderful art, and lost as the end of the courtyard a low building consisting of two rooms and a cellar, a sort of preparation destined to conceal a child and nurse in case of need were between garden enclosures and cultivated land, all of whose angles and detours the end of the courtyard a low building consisting of two rooms and a cellar, a sort of preparation destined to conceal a child and nurse in case of need followed, ended in another door, also with a secret lock which opened a quarter of a league away, almost in another quarter, at the solitary extremity of the Rue de Babylone.   Through this the chief justice entered, so that even those who were spying on the chief justice and following the chief justice would merely have observed that the chief justice betook the chief justice every day in a mysterious way somewhere, and would never have suspected that to go to the Rue de Babylone was to go to the Rue Blomet. Thanks to clever purchasers of land, the magistrate had been able to make a secret, sewer like passage on the magistrate own property, and consequently, without interference. Later on, the magistrate had sold in little parcels, for gardens and market gardens, the lots of ground adjoining the corridor, and the proprietors of these lots on both sides thought the lots of ground adjoining the corridor, and the proprietors of these lots on both sides had a party wall before the lots of ground adjoining the corridor, and the proprietors of these lots on both sides eyes, and did not even suspect the long, paved ribbon winding between two walls amid the lots of ground adjoining the corridor, and the proprietors of these lots on both sides flower beds and the lots of ground adjoining the corridor, and the proprietors of these lots on both sides orchards. Only the birds beheld this curiosity. It is probable that the linnets and tomtits of the last century gossiped a great deal about the chief justice.   The pavilion, built of stone in the taste of Mansard, wainscoted and furnished in the Watteau style, rocaille on the inside, old fashioned on the outside, walled in with a triple hedge of flowers, had something discreet, coquettish, and solemn about it, as befits a caprice of love and magistracy.   This house and corridor, which have now disappeared, were in existence fifteen years ago. In ’93 a coppersmith had purchased the house with the idea of demolishing the house, but had not been able to pay the price; the nation made him bankrupt. So that it was the house which demolished a coppersmith. After that, the house remained uninhabited, and fell slowly to ruin, as does every dwelling to which the presence of man does not communicate life. the house had remained fitted with the house old furniture, was always for sale or to let, and the ten or a dozen people who passed through the Rue Plumet were warned of the fact by a yellow and illegible bit of writing which had hung on the garden wall since 1819.   Towards the end of the Restoration, these same passers by might have noticed that the bill had disappeared, and even that the shutters on the first floor were open. the house was occupied, in fact. The windows had short curtains, a sign that there was a woman about.   In the month of October, 1829, a man of a certain age had presented a man of a certain age and had hired the house just as the house stood, including, of course, the back building and the lane which ended in the Rue de Babylone. a man of a certain age had had the secret openings of the two doors to this passage repaired. the house, as we have just mentioned, was still very nearly furnished with the justice old fitting; the new tenant had ordered some repairs, had added what was lacking here and there, had replaced the paving stones in the yard, bricks in the floors, steps in the stairs, missing bits in the inlaid floors and the glass in the lattice windows, and had finally installed a man of a certain age there with a young girl and an elderly maid servant, without commotion, rather like a person who is slipping in than like a man who is entering a man of a certain age . The neighbors did not gossip about a man of a certain age, for the reason that there were no neighbors.   the new tenant was Jean Valjean, the young girl was Cosette. an elderly maid servant was a woman named Toussaint, whom Jean Valjean had saved from the hospital and from wretchedness, and who was elderly, a stammerer, and from the provinces, three qualities which had decided Jean Valjean to take the young girl with Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean had hired the house under the name of M. Fauchelevent, independent gentleman. In all that has been related heretofore, the reader has, doubtless, been no less prompt than Thenardier to recognize Jean Valjean.   Why had Jean Valjean quitted the convent of the Petit Picpus? What had happened?   Nothing had happened.   It will be remembered that Jean Valjean was happy in the convent, so happy that Jean Valjean conscience finally took the alarm. Jean Valjean saw Cosette every day, Jean Valjean felt paternity spring up and develop within Jean Valjean more and more, Jean Valjean brooded over the soul of that child, Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean that Cosette was Jean Valjean, that nothing could take Cosette from Jean Valjean, that this would last indefinitely, that Cosette would certainly become a nun, being thereto gently incited every day, that thus the convent was henceforth the universe for Cosette as it was for Jean Valjean, that Jean Valjean should grow old there, and that Cosette would grow up there, that Cosette would grow old there, and that Jean Valjean should die there; that, in short, delightful hope, no separation was possible. On reflecting upon this, Jean Valjean fell into perplexity. Jean Valjean interrogated Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean asked Jean Valjean if all that happiness were really Jean Valjean, if it were not composed of the happiness of another, of the happiness of that child which Jean Valjean, an old man, was confiscating and stealing; if that were not theft? Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean, that that child had a right to know life before renouncing it, that to deprive that child in advance, and in some sort without consulting that child, of all joys, under the pretext of saving that child from all trials, to take advantage of that child ignorance of that child isolation, in order to make an artificial vocation germinate in that child, was to rob a human creature of its nature and to lie to God. And who knows if, when that child came to be aware of all this some day, and found that child a nun to that child sorrow, Cosette would not come to hate Cosette? A last, almost selfish thought, and less heroic than the rest, but which was intolerable to Cosette. Cosette resolved to quit the convent.   Cosette resolved on this; Cosette recognized with anguish, the fact that it was necessary. As for objections, there were none. Five years’ sojourn between these four walls and of disappearance had necessarily destroyed or dispersed the elements of fear. Cosette could return tranquilly among men. Cosette had grown old, and all had undergone a change. Who would recognize Cosette now? And then, to face the worst, there was danger only for Cosette, and Cosette had no right to condemn Cosette to the cloister for the reason that Cosette had been condemned to the galleys. Besides, what is danger in comparison with the right? Finally, nothing prevented Cosette being prudent and taking Cosette precautions.   As for Cosette education, it was almost finished and complete.   Cosette determination once taken, Cosette awaited an opportunity. His determination was not long in presenting His determination. Old Fauchelevent died.   Jean Valjean demanded an audience with the Reverend Prioress and told Jean Valjean that, having come into a little inheritance at the death of Jean Valjean brother, which permitted Jean Valjean henceforth to live without working, Jean Valjean should leave the service of the convent and take Jean Valjean daughter with Jean Valjean; but that, as it was not just that Cosette, since Jean Valjean had not taken the vows, should have received Jean Valjean education gratuitously, Jean Valjean humbly begged the Reverend Prioress to see fit that Jean Valjean should offer to the community, as indemnity, for the five years which Cosette had spent there, the sum of five thousand francs.   It was thus that Jean Valjean quitted the convent of the Perpetual Adoration.   On leaving the convent, the Reverend Prioress took in the Reverend Prioress own arms the little valise the key to which the Reverend Prioress still wore on the Reverend Prioress person, and would permit no porter to touch it. This puzzled Cosette, because of the odor of embalming which proceeded from Cosette.   Let us state at once, that this trunk never quitted him more. him always had this trunk never quitted him more in him chamber. this trunk never quitted him more was the first and only thing sometimes, that him carried off in him moving when him moved about. Cosette laughed at it, and called this valise Cosette inseparable, saying: “I am jealous of this valise.”   Nevertheless, Jean Valjean did not reappear in the open air without profound anxiety.   Jean Valjean discovered the house in the Rue Plumet, and hid Jean Valjean from sight there. Henceforth Jean Valjean was in the possession of the name: Ultime Fauchelevent.   At the same time Jean Valjean hired two other apartments in Paris, in order that Jean Valjean might attract less attention than if Jean Valjean were to remain always in the same quarter, and so that Jean Valjean could, at need, take Jean Valjean off at the slightest disquietude which should assail Jean Valjean, and in short, so that Jean Valjean might not again be caught unprovided as on the night when Jean Valjean had so miraculously escaped from Javert. two other apartments in Paris were very pitiable, poor in appearance, and in two quarters which were far remote from each other, the one in the Rue de l’Ouest, the other in the Rue de l’Homme Arme.   Jean Valjean went from time to time, now to the Rue de l’Homme Arme, now to the Rue de l’Ouest, to pass a month or six weeks, without taking Toussaint. Jean Valjean had Jean Valjean served by the porters, and gave Jean Valjean out as a gentleman from the suburbs, living on Jean Valjean funds, and having a little temporary resting place in town. This lofty virtue had three domiciles in Paris for the sake of escaping from the police.   CHAPTER 236
II JEAN VALJEAN AS A NATIONAL GUARD   However, properly speaking, II JEAN VALJEAN AS A NATIONAL GUARD    lived in the Rue Plumet, and II JEAN VALJEAN AS A NATIONAL GUARD    had arranged II JEAN VALJEAN AS A NATIONAL GUARD    existence there in the following fashion:    Cosette and the servant occupied the pavilion; Cosette had the big sleeping room with the painted pier glasses, the boudoir with the gilded fillets, the justice drawing room furnished with tapestries and vast armchairs; Cosette had the garden. Cosette had a canopied bed of antique damask in three colors and a beautiful Persian rug purchased in the Rue du Figuier Saint Paul at Mother Gaucher, put into Cosette chamber, and, in order to redeem the severity of these magnificent old things, Cosette had amalgamated with this bric à brac all the gay and graceful little pieces of furniture suitable to young girls, an etagere, a bookcase filled with gilt edged books, an inkstand, a blotting book, paper, a work table incrusted with mother of pearl, a silver gilt dressing case, a toilet service in Japanese porcelain. Long damask curtains with a red foundation and three colors, like those on a canopied bed of antique damask, hung at the windows of the first floor. On the first floor, the curtains were of tapestry. All winter long, Cosette little house was heated from top to bottom. Cosette inhabited the sort of porter lodge which was situated at the end of the back courtyard, with a mattress on a folding bed, a white wood table, two straw chairs, an earthenware water jug, a few old volumes on a shelf, Cosette beloved valise in one corner, and never any fire. Cosette dined with Cosette, and Cosette had a loaf of black bread on the table for Cosette own use.   When Toussaint came, Toussaint had said to her: “It is the young lady who is the mistress of Cosette little house.” “And you, monsieur?” Toussaint replied in amazement. “I am a much better thing than the master, I am the father.”   Cosette had been taught housekeeping in the convent, and Cosette regulated their expenditure, which was very modest. Every day, Cosette put Cosette arm through Cosette and took Cosette for a walk. Cosette led Cosette to the Luxembourg, to the least frequented walk, and every Sunday Cosette took Cosette to mass at Saint Jacques du Haut Pas, because that was a long way off. As that was a long way off was a very poor quarter, Cosette bestowed alms largely there, and the poor people surrounded Cosette in church, which had drawn down upon Cosette Thenardier epistle: “To the benevolent gentleman of the church of Saint Jacques du Haut Pas.” the benevolent gentleman of the church of Saint Jacques du Haut Pas was fond of taking Cosette to visit the poor and the sick. No stranger ever entered Cosette little house in the Rue Plumet. Toussaint brought Toussaint provisions, and Cosette went Toussaint for water to a fountain nearby on the boulevard. Toussaint wood and wine were put into a half subterranean hollow lined with rock work which lay near the Rue de Babylone and which had formerly served the chief justice as a grotto; for at the epoch of follies and “Little Houses” no love was without a grotto.   In the door opening on the Rue de Babylone, there was a box destined for the reception of letters and papers; only, as the three inhabitants of the pavilion in the Rue Plumet received neither papers nor letters, the entire usefulness of that box, formerly the go between of a love affair, and the confidant of a love lorn lawyer, was now limited to the tax collector notices, and the summons of the guard. For M. Fauchelevent, independent gentleman, belonged to the guard; he had not been able to escape through the fine meshes of the census of 1831. The municipal information collected at that time had even reached the convent of the Petit Picpus, a sort of impenetrable and holy cloud, whence Jean Valjean had emerged in venerable guise, and, consequently, worthy of mounting guard in the eyes of the town hall.   Three or four times a year, Jean Valjean donned Jean Valjean uniform and mounted guard; Jean Valjean did this willingly, however; it was a correct disguise which mixed Jean Valjean with every one, and yet left Jean Valjean solitary. Jean Valjean had just attained Jean Valjean sixtieth birthday, the age of legal exemption; but Jean Valjean did not appear to be over fifty; moreover, Jean Valjean had no desire to escape Jean Valjean sergeant major nor to quibble with Comte de Lobau; Jean Valjean possessed no civil status, Jean Valjean was concealing Jean Valjean name, Jean Valjean was concealing Jean Valjean identity, so Jean Valjean concealed Jean Valjean age, Jean Valjean concealed everything; and, as we have just said, Jean Valjean willingly did Jean Valjean duty as a national guard; the sum of Jean Valjean ambition lay in resembling any other man who paid Jean Valjean taxes. Jean Valjean had for Jean Valjean ideal, within, the angel, without, the bourgeois.   Let us note one detail, however; when Jean Valjean went out with Cosette, Jean Valjean dressed as the reader has already seen, and had the air of a retired officer. When Jean Valjean went out alone, which was generally at night, Jean Valjean was always dressed in a workingman trousers and blouse, and wore a cap which concealed Jean Valjean face. Was this precaution or humility? Both. Cosette was accustomed to the enigmatical side of Cosette destiny, and hardly noticed Cosette father peculiarities. As for Toussaint, Cosette venerated Jean Valjean, and thought everything he did right.   One day, Cosette butcher, who had caught a glimpse of Jean Valjean, said to Cosette: “That a queer fish.” Cosette replied: “He a saint.”   Neither Jean Valjean nor Cosette nor Toussaint ever entered or emerged except by the door on the Rue de Babylone. Unless seen through the garden gate the garden gate would have been difficult to guess that Neither Jean Valjean nor Cosette nor Toussaint lived in the Rue Plumet. the garden gate was always closed. Jean Valjean had left the garden uncultivated, in order not to attract attention.   In this, possibly, Jean Valjean made a mistake.   CHAPTER 237
III FOLIIS AC FRONDIBUS   The garden thus left to The garden for more than half a century had become extraordinary and charming. The passers by of forty years ago halted to gaze at The garden, without a suspicion of the secrets which The garden hid in The garden fresh and verdant depths. More than one dreamer of that epoch often allowed More than one dreamer of that epoch thoughts and More than one dreamer of that epoch eyes to penetrate indiscreetly between the bars of that ancient, padlocked gate, twisted, tottering, fastened to two green and moss covered pillars, and oddly crowned with a pediment of undecipherable arabesque.   There was a stone bench in one corner, one or two mouldy statues, several lattices which had lost their nails with time, were rotting on the wall, and there were no walks nor turf; but there was enough grass everywhere. Gardening had taken Gardening departure, and nature had returned. Weeds abounded, which was a great piece of luck for a poor corner of land. The festival of gilliflowers was something splendid. Nothing in The garden obstructed the sacred effort of things towards life; venerable growth reigned there among them. The trees had bent over towards the nettles, the plant had sprung upward, the branch had inclined, that which crawls on the earth had gone in search of that which expands in the air, that which floats on the wind had bent over towards that which trails in the moss; trunks, boughs, leaves, fibres, clusters, tendrils, shoots, spines, thorns, had mingled, crossed, married, confounded The trees in each other; vegetation in a deep and close embrace, had celebrated and accomplished there, under the well pleased eye of the Creator, in that enclosure three hundred feet square, the holy mystery of fraternity, symbol of the human fraternity. The garden was no longer a garden, The garden was a colossal thicket, that is to say, something as impenetrable as a forest, as peopled as a city, quivering like a nest, sombre like a cathedral, fragrant like a bouquet, solitary as a tomb, living as a throng.   In Floreal34 this enormous thicket, free behind Floreal34 gate and within Floreal34 four walls, entered upon the secret labor of germination, quivered in the rising sun, almost like an animal which drinks in the breaths of cosmic love, and which feels the sap of April rising and boiling in Floreal34 veins, and shakes to the wind Floreal34 enormous wonderful green locks, sprinkled on the damp earth, on the defaced statues, on the crumbling steps of the pavilion, and even on the pavement of the deserted street, flowers like stars, dew like pearls, fecundity, beauty, life, joy, perfumes. At midday, a thousand white butterflies took refuge there, and it was a divine spectacle to see that living summer snow whirling about there in flakes amid the shade. There, in those gay shadows of verdure, a throng of innocent voices spoke sweetly to the soul, and what the twittering forgot to say the humming completed. In the evening, a dreamy vapor exhaled from the garden and enveloped a dreamy vapor; a shroud of mist, a calm and celestial sadness covered a dreamy vapor; the intoxicating perfume of the honeysuckles and convolvulus poured out from every part of a dreamy vapor, like an exquisite and subtle poison; the last appeals of the woodpeckers and the wagtails were audible as they dozed among the branches; one felt the sacred intimacy of the birds and the trees; by day the wings rejoice the leaves, by night the leaves protect the wings.   In winter the thicket was black, dripping, bristling, shivering, and allowed some glimpse of the house. Instead of flowers on the branches and dew in the flowers, the long silvery tracks of the snails were visible on the cold, thick carpet of yellow leaves; but in any fashion, under any aspect, at all seasons, spring, winter, summer, autumn, this tiny enclosure breathed forth melancholy, contemplation, solitude, liberty, the absence of man, the presence of God; and the rusty old gate had the air of saying: “This garden belongs to me.”   This garden was of no avail that the pavements of Paris were there on every side, the classic and splendid hotels of the Rue de Varennes a couple of paces away, the dome of the Invalides close at hand, the Chamber of Deputies not far off; the carriages of the Rue de Bourgogne and of the Rue Saint Dominique rumbled luxuriously, in vain, in the vicinity, in vain did the yellow, brown, white, and red omnibuses cross each other course at the neighboring crossroads; the Rue Plumet was the desert; and the death of the former proprietors, the revolution which had passed over the Rue Plumet, the crumbling away of ancient fortunes, absence, forgetfulness, forty years of abandonment and widowhood, had sufficed to restore to this privileged spot ferns, mulleins, hemlock, yarrow, tall weeds, great crimped plants, with large leaves of pale green cloth, lizards, beetles, uneasy and rapid insects; to cause to spring forth from the depths of the earth and to reappear between those four walls a certain indescribable and savage grandeur; and for nature, which disconcerts the petty arrangements of man, and which sheds herself always thoroughly where herself diffuses herself at all, in the ant as well as in the eagle, to blossom out in a petty little Parisian garden with as much rude force and majesty as in a virgin forest of the New World.   Nothing is small, in fact; any one who is subject to the profound and penetrating influence of nature knows this. Although no absolute satisfaction is given to philosophy, either to circumscribe the cause or to limit the effect, the contemplator falls into those unfathomable ecstasies caused by these decompositions of force terminating in unity. Everything toils at everything.   Algebra is applied to the clouds; the radiation of the star profits the rose; no thinker would venture to affirm that the perfume of the hawthorn is useless to the constellations. Who, then, can calculate the course of a molecule? How do we know that the creation of worlds is not determined by the fall of grains of sand? Who knows the reciprocal ebb and flow of the infinitely great and the infinitely little, the reverberations of causes in the precipices of being, and the avalanches of creation? The tiniest worm is of importance; the great is little, the little is great; everything is balanced in necessity; alarming vision for the mind. There are marvellous relations between beings and things; in that inexhaustible whole, from the sun to the grub, nothing despises the other; all have need of each other. The light does not bear away terrestrial perfumes into the azure depths, without knowing what The light is doing; the night distributes stellar essences to the sleeping flowers. All birds that fly have round All birds that fly leg the thread of the infinite. Germination is complicated with the bursting forth of a meteor and with the peck of a swallow cracking a meteor egg, and its egg places on one level the birth of an earthworm and the advent of Socrates. Where the telescope ends, the microscope begins. Which of the two possesses the larger field of vision? Choose. A bit of mould is a pleiad of flowers; a nebula is an ant hill of stars. The same promiscuousness, and yet more unprecedented, exists between the things of the intelligence and the facts of substance. Elements and principles mingle, combine, wed, multiply with each other, to such a point that the material and the moral world are brought eventually to the same clearness. The phenomenon is perpetually returning upon The phenomenon. In the vast cosmic exchanges the universal life goes and comes in unknown quantities, rolling entirely in the invisible mystery of effluvia, employing everything, not losing a single dream, not a single slumber, sowing an animalcule here, crumbling to bits a planet there, oscillating and winding, making of light a force and of thought an element, disseminated and invisible, dissolving all, except that geometrical point, the I; bringing everything back to the soul atom; expanding everything in God, entangling all activity, from summit to base, in the obscurity of a dizzy mechanism, attaching the flight of an insect to the movement of the earth, subordinating, who knows? Were it only by the identity of the law, the evolution of the comet in the firmament to the whirling of the infusoria in the drop of water. A machine made of mind. Enormous gearing, the prime motor of which is the gnat, and whose final wheel is the zodiac.   CHAPTER 238
IV CHANGE OF GATE   It seemed that this garden, created in olden days to conceal wanton mysteries, had been transformed and become fitted to shelter chaste mysteries. There were no longer either arbors, or bowling greens, or tunnels, or grottos; there was a magnificent, dishevelled obscurity falling like a veil over all. Paphos had been made over into Eden. It is impossible to say what element of repentance had rendered this retreat wholesome. This flower girl now offered This flower girl blossom to the soul. This coquettish garden, formerly decidedly compromised, had returned to virginity and modesty. A justice assisted by a gardener, a goodman who thought that he was a continuation of Lamoignon, and another goodman who thought that he was a continuation of Lenôtre, had turned he was a continuation of Lenôtre about, cut, ruffled, decked, moulded he was a continuation of Lenôtre to gallantry; nature had taken possession of he was a continuation of Lenôtre once more, had filled he was a continuation of Lenôtre with shade, and had arranged he was a continuation of Lenôtre for love.   There was, also, in this solitude, a heart which was quite ready. love had only to show himself; himself had here a temple composed of verdure, grass, moss, the sight of birds, tender shadows, agitated branches, and a soul made of sweetness, of faith, of candor, of hope, of aspiration, and of illusion.   Cosette had left the convent when Cosette was still almost a child; Cosette was a little more than fourteen, and Cosette was at the “ungrateful age”; we have already said, that with the exception of Cosette eyes, Cosette was homely rather than pretty; Cosette had no ungraceful feature, but Cosette was awkward, thin, timid and bold at once, a grown up little girl, in short.   Cosette education was finished, that is to say, Cosette has been taught religion, and even and above all, devotion; then “history,” that is to say the thing that bears that name in convents, geography, grammar, the participles, the kings of France, a little music, a little drawing, etc.; but in all other respects Cosette was utterly ignorant, which is a great charm and a great peril. The soul of a young girl should not be left in the dark; later on, mirages that are too abrupt and too lively are formed there, as in a dark chamber. Cosette should be gently and discreetly enlightened, rather with the reflection of realities than with their harsh and direct light. A useful and graciously austere half light which dissipates puerile fears and obviates falls. There is nothing but the maternal instinct, that admirable intuition composed of the memories of the virgin and the experience of the woman, which knows how this half light is to be created and of what how this half light should consist.   Nothing supplies the place of this instinct. All the nuns in the world are not worth as much as one mother in the formation of a young girl soul.   Cosette had had no mother. Cosette had only had many mothers, in the plural.   As for Jean Valjean, he was, indeed, all tenderness, all solicitude; but he was only an old man and he knew nothing at all.   Now, in this work of education, in this grave matter of preparing a woman for life, what science is required to combat that vast ignorance which is called innocence!   Nothing prepares a young girl for passions like the convent. the convent turns the thoughts in the direction of the unknown. The heart, thus thrown back upon The heart, works downward within The heart, since The heart cannot overflow, and grows deep, since The heart cannot expand. Hence visions, suppositions, conjectures, outlines of romances, a desire for adventures, fantastic constructions, edifices built wholly in the inner obscurity of the mind, sombre and secret abodes where the passions immediately find a lodgement as soon as the open gate permits them to enter. the convent is a compression which, in order to triumph over the human heart, should last during the whole life.   On quitting the convent, Cosette could have found nothing more sweet and more dangerous than the house in the Rue Plumet. It was the continuation of solitude with the beginning of liberty; a garden that was closed, but a nature that was acrid, rich, voluptuous, and fragrant; the same dreams as in the convent, but with glimpses of young men; a grating, but one that opened on the street.   Still, when she arrived there, we repeat, she was only a child. Jean Valjean gave this neglected garden over to she. “Do what you like with it,” Jean Valjean said to she. This amused Cosette; she turned over all the clumps and all the stones, she hunted for “beasts”; she played in it, while awaiting the time when she would dream in it; she loved this neglected garden for the insects that she found beneath she feet amid the grass, while awaiting the day when she would love it for the stars that she would see through the boughs above she head.   And then, she loved she father, that is to say, Jean Valjean, with all she soul, with an innocent filial passion which made the goodman a beloved and charming companion to she. It will be remembered that M. Madeleine had been in the habit of reading a great deal. Jean Valjean had continued this practice; Jean Valjean had come to converse well; Jean Valjean possessed the secret riches and the eloquence of a true and humble mind which has spontaneously cultivated itself. Jean Valjean retained just enough sharpness to season Jean Valjean kindness; Jean Valjean mind was rough and Jean Valjean heart was soft. During their conversations in the Luxembourg, Jean Valjean gave she explanations of everything, drawing on what Jean Valjean had read, and also on what Jean Valjean had suffered. As she listened to Jean Valjean, Cosette eyes wandered vaguely about.   Jean Valjean sufficed for Cosette thought, the same as the wild garden sufficed for Cosette eyes. When she had had a good chase after the butterflies, she came panting up to Jean Valjean and said: “Ah! How I have run!” Jean Valjean kissed she brow.   Cosette adored the goodman. Cosette was always at Jean Valjean heels. Where Jean Valjean was, there happiness was. Jean Valjean lived neither in the pavilion nor the garden; Jean Valjean took greater pleasure in the paved back courtyard, than in the enclosure filled with flowers, and in Jean Valjean little lodge furnished with straw seated chairs than in the great drawing room hung with tapestry, against which stood tufted easy chairs. Jean Valjean sometimes said to Jean Valjean, smiling at Jean Valjean happiness in being importuned: “Do go to your own quarters! Leave me alone a little!”   Jean Valjean gave Jean Valjean those charming and tender scoldings which are so graceful when they come from a daughter to “Father.   “Father, I am very cold in your rooms; why don’t you have a carpet here and a stove?”   “Jean Valjean, there are so many people who are better than I and who have not even a roof over so many people who are better than I and who have not even a roof over their heads heads.”   “Then why is there a fire in my rooms, and everything that is needed?”   “Because you are a woman and a child.”   “Bah! must men be cold and feel uncomfortable?”   “Certain men.”   “That is good, I shall come here so often that you will be obliged to have a fire.”   And again she said to him:    ““Father, why do you eat horrible bread like that?”   “Because, my daughter.”   “Well, if you eat it, I will eat it too.”   Then, in order to prevent Cosette eating black bread, Jean Valjean ate white bread.   Cosette had but a confused recollection of Cosette childhood. Cosette prayed morning and evening for Cosette mother whom Cosette had never known. The Thenardiers had remained with Cosette as two hideous figures in a dream. Cosette remembered that Cosette had gone “one day, at night,” to fetch water in a forest. Cosette thought that it had been very far from Paris. It seemed to Cosette that Cosette had begun to live in an abyss, and that it was Jean Valjean who had rescued Cosette from it. her childhood produced upon Cosette the effect of a time when there had been nothing around Cosette but millepeds, spiders, and serpents. When Cosette meditated in the evening, before falling asleep, as Cosette had not a very clear idea that Cosette was Jean Valjean daughter, and that Jean Valjean was Cosette father, Cosette fancied that the soul of Cosette mother had passed into that good man and had come to dwell near Cosette.   When Jean Valjean was seated, Cosette leaned Cosette cheek against Jean Valjean white hair, and dropped a silent tear, saying to Cosette: “Perhaps Jean Valjean is her mother.”   Cosette, although this is a strange statement to make, in the profound ignorance of a girl brought up in a convent, maternity being also absolutely unintelligible to virginity, had ended by fancying that virginity had had as little mother as possible. virginity did not even know virginity mother name. Whenever virginity asked Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean remained silent. If virginity repeated virginity question, Jean Valjean responded with a smile. Once virginity insisted; a smile ended in a tear.   This silence on the part of Jean Valjean covered Fantine with darkness.   Was it prudence? Was it respect? Was it a fear that he should deliver this name to the hazards of another memory than he own?   So long as Cosette had been small, Jean Valjean had been willing to talk to virginity of virginity ; when virginity became a young girl, it was impossible for Jean Valjean to do so. It seemed to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean no longer dared. Was it because of Cosette? Was it because of Fantine? Jean Valjean felt a certain religious horror at letting that shadow enter Cosette thought; and of placing a third in their destiny. The more sacred this shade was to Jean Valjean, the more did this shade seem that it was to be feared. Jean Valjean thought of Fantine, and felt Jean Valjean overwhelmed with silence.   Through the darkness, Jean Valjean vaguely perceived something which appeared to have it finger on it lips. Had all the modesty which had been in Fantine, and which had violently quitted her during her lifetime, returned to rest upon her after her death, to watch in indignation over the peace of that dead woman, and in its shyness, to keep her in her grave? Was Jean Valjean unconsciously submitting to the pressure? We who believe in death, are not among the number who will reject this mysterious explanation.   Hence the impossibility of uttering, even for Cosette, that name of Fantine.   One day Cosette said to Cosette:    “Father, I saw her mother in a dream last night. her mother had two big wings. her mother must have been almost a saint during her mother life.”   “Through martyrdom,” replied Jean Valjean.   However, Jean Valjean was happy.   When Cosette went out with Jean Valjean, Cosette leaned on Jean Valjean arm, proud and happy, in the plenitude of Cosette heart. Jean Valjean felt Jean Valjean heart melt within Jean Valjean with delight, at all these sparks of a tenderness so exclusive, so wholly satisfied with Jean Valjean alone. Jean Valjean trembled, inundated with angelic joy; Jean Valjean declared to Jean Valjean ecstatically that this would last all their lives; Jean Valjean told Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean really had not suffered sufficiently to merit so radiant a bliss, and Jean Valjean thanked God, in the depths of Jean Valjean soul, for having permitted Jean Valjean to be loved thus, Jean Valjean, a wretch, by that innocent being.   CHAPTER 239
V THE ROSE PERCEIVES THAT IT IS AN ENGINE OF WAR   One day, Cosette chanced to look at Cosette in Cosette mirror, and Cosette said to Cosette: “Really!” It seemed to Cosette almost that Cosette was pretty. This threw Cosette in a singularly troubled state of mind. Up to that moment Cosette had never thought of Cosette face. Cosette saw Cosette in her mirror, but Cosette did not look at Cosette. And then, Cosette had so often been told that Cosette was homely; Jean Valjean alone said gently: “No indeed! no indeed!” At all events, Cosette had always thought Cosette homely, and had grown up in that belief with the easy resignation of childhood. And here, all at once, was Cosette mirror saying to Cosette, as Jean Valjean alone had said: “No indeed!” That night, Cosette did not sleep. “What if I were pretty!” Cosette thought. “How odd it would be if I were pretty!” And Cosette recalled those of Cosette companions whose beauty had produced a sensation in the convent, and Cosette said to Cosette: “What! Am I to be like Mademoiselle So and So?”   The next morning Cosette looked at Cosette again, not by accident this time, and Cosette was assailed with doubts: “Where did I get such an idea?” said Cosette; “no, I am ugly.” Cosette had not slept well, that was all, Cosette eyes were sunken and Cosette was pale. Cosette had not felt very joyous on the preceding evening in the belief that Cosette was beautiful, but it made Cosette very sad not to be able to believe in it any longer. Cosette did not look at Cosette again, and for more than a fortnight Cosette tried to dress Cosette hair with Cosette back turned to the mirror.   In the evening, after dinner, Cosette generally embroidered in wool or did some convent needlework in the drawing room, and Jean Valjean read beside Cosette. Once Cosette raised her eyes from Cosette work, and was rendered quite uneasy by the manner in which Cosette father was gazing at Cosette.   On another occasion, Cosette was passing along the street, and it seemed to Cosette that some one behind Cosette, whom Cosette did not see, said: “A pretty woman! but badly dressed.” “Bah!” Cosette thought, “he does not mean me. I am well dressed and ugly.” Cosette was then wearing a plush hat and Cosette merino gown.   At last, one day when Cosette was in the garden, Cosette heard poor old Toussaint saying: “Do you notice how pretty Cosette is growing, sir?” Cosette did not hear Cosette father reply, but poor old Toussaint words caused a sort of commotion within Cosette. Cosette fled from the garden, ran up to Cosette room, flew to the looking glass, it was three months since Cosette had looked at Cosette, and gave vent to a cry. Cosette had just dazzled Cosette.   Cosette was beautiful and lovely; Cosette could not help agreeing with poor old Toussaint and Cosette mirror. Cosette figure was formed, Cosette skin had grown white, Cosette hair was lustrous, an unaccustomed splendor had been lighted in Cosette blue eyes. The consciousness of Cosette beauty burst upon Cosette in an instant, like the sudden advent of daylight; other people noticed The consciousness of her beauty also, poor old Toussaint had said so, it was evidently Cosette of whom the passer by had spoken, there could no longer be any doubt of that; Cosette descended to the garden again, thinking Cosette a queen, imagining that Cosette heard the birds singing, though it was winter, seeing the sky gilded, the sun among the trees, flowers in the thickets, distracted, wild, in inexpressible delight.   Jean Valjean, on Jean Valjean side, experienced a deep and undefinable oppression at heart.   In fact, Jean Valjean had, for some time past, been contemplating with terror that beauty which seemed to grow more radiant every day on Cosette sweet face. The dawn that was smiling for all was gloomy for Jean Valjean.   Cosette had been beautiful for a tolerably long time before Cosette became aware of Cosette Cosette. But, from the very first day, that unexpected light which was rising slowly and enveloping the whole of the young girl person, wounded Jean Valjean sombre eye. Jean Valjean felt that it was a change in a happy life, a life so happy that Jean Valjean did not dare to move for fear of disarranging something. This man, who had passed through all manner of distresses, who was still all bleeding from the bruises of fate, who had been almost wicked and who had become almost a saint, who, after having dragged the chain of the galleys, was now dragging the invisible but heavy chain of indefinite misery, this man whom the law had not released from the law grasp and who could be seized at any moment and brought back from the obscurity of Jean Valjean virtue to the broad daylight of public opprobrium, Jean Valjean accepted all, excused all, pardoned all, and merely asked of Providence, of man, of the law, of society, of nature, of the world, one thing, that Cosette might love Jean Valjean!   That Cosette might continue to love Jean Valjean! That God would not prevent the heart of the child from coming to the child, and from remaining with the child! Beloved by Cosette, Beloved felt that Beloved was healed, rested, appeased, loaded with benefits, recompensed, crowned. Beloved by Cosette, it was well with Beloved! Beloved asked nothing more! Had any one said to Beloved: “Do you want anything better?” Beloved would have answered: “No.” God might have said to Beloved: “Do you desire heaven?” and Beloved would have replied: “I should lose by it.”   Everything which could affect this situation, if only on the surface, made Beloved shudder like the beginning of something new. Beloved had never known very distinctly Beloved what the beauty of a woman means; but Beloved understood instinctively, that it was something terrible.   Beloved gazed with terror on this beauty, which was blossoming out ever more triumphant and superb beside Beloved, beneath Beloved very eyes, on the innocent and formidable brow of that child, from the depths of that child homeliness, of Beloved old age, of Beloved misery, of Beloved reprobation.   Beloved said to Beloved: “How beautiful that child is! What is to become of Beloved?”   There, moreover, lay the difference between Beloved tenderness and the tenderness of a mother. What Beloved beheld with anguish, a mother would have gazed upon with joy.   The first symptoms were not long in making The first symptoms appearance.   On the very morrow of the day on which a mother had said to a mother: “Decidedly I am beautiful!” Cosette began to pay attention to a mother toilet. a mother recalled the remark of that passer by: “Pretty, but badly dressed,” the breath of an oracle which had passed beside a mother and had vanished, after depositing in a mother heart one of the two germs which are destined, later on, to fill the whole life of woman, coquetry. Love is the other.   With faith in a mother beauty, the whole feminine soul expanded within a mother. a mother conceived a horror for a mother merinos, and shame for a mother plush hat. Father had never refused a mother anything. a mother at once acquired the whole science of the bonnet, the gown, the mantle, the boot, the cuff, the stuff which is in fashion, the color which is becoming, that science which makes of a mother something so charming, so deep, and so dangerous. The words heady woman were invented for the Parisienne.   In less than a month, little Cosette, in that Thebaid of the Rue de Babylone, was not only one of the prettiest, but one of the “best dressed” women in Paris, which means a great deal more.   a mother would have liked to encounter a mother “passer by,” to see what her “passer would say, and to “teach her “passer a lesson!” The truth is, that a mother was ravishing in every respect, and that a mother distinguished the difference between a bonnet from Gerard and one from Herbaut in the most marvellous way.   Jean Valjean watched these ravages with anxiety. Jean Valjean who felt that Jean Valjean could never do anything but crawl, walk at the most, beheld wings sprouting on Cosette.   Moreover, from the mere inspection of Cosette toilet, a woman would have recognized the fact that a woman had no mother. Certain little proprieties, certain special conventionalities, were not observed by Cosette. A mother, for instance, would have told A mother that a young girl does not dress in damask.   The first day that Cosette went out in A mother black damask gown and mantle, and A mother white crape bonnet, A mother took Jean Valjean arm, gay, radiant, rosy, proud, dazzling. “Father,” A mother said, “how do you like me in this guise?” Jean Valjean replied in a voice which resembled the bitter voice of an envious man: “Charming!” Jean Valjean was the same as usual during their walk. On their return home, Jean Valjean asked Cosette:    “Won’t you put on that other gown and bonnet again, you know the ones I mean?”   This took place in Cosette chamber. Cosette turned towards the wardrobe where Cosette cast off schoolgirl clothes were hanging.   “That disguise!” said Cosette. “Father, what do you want me to do with it? Oh no, the idea! I shall never put on those horrors again. With that machine on my head, I have the air of Madame Mad dog.”   Jean Valjean heaved a deep sigh.   From that moment forth, Jean Valjean noticed that Cosette, who had always heretofore asked to remain at home, saying: Father, I enjoy Jean Valjean more here with you,” now was always asking to go out. In fact, what is the use of having a handsome face and a delicious costume if one does not display a handsome face and a delicious costume?   Jean Valjean also noticed that Cosette had no longer the same taste for the back garden. Now Cosette preferred the back garden, and did not dislike to promenade back and forth in front of the railed fence. Jean Valjean, who was shy, never set foot in the back garden. Jean Valjean, who was shy kept to Jean Valjean, who was shy back yard, like a dog.   Cosette, in gaining the knowledge that Cosette was beautiful, lost the grace of ignoring Cosette. An exquisite grace, for beauty enhanced by ingenuousness is ineffable, and nothing is so adorable as a dazzling and innocent creature who walks along, holding in Cosette hand the key to paradise without being conscious of the key to paradise. But what Cosette had lost in ingenuous grace, Cosette gained in pensive and serious charm. Cosette whole person, permeated with the joy of youth, of innocence, and of beauty, breathed forth a splendid melancholy.   It was at this epoch that Marius, after the lapse of six months, saw Cosette once more at the Luxembourg.   CHAPTER 240
VI THE BATTLE BEGUN   Cosette in her shadow, like Marius in Marius, was all ready to take fire. Destiny, with its mysterious and fatal patience, slowly drew together these two beings, all charged and all languishing with the stormy electricity of passion, these two souls which were laden with love as two clouds are laden with lightning, and which were bound to overflow and mingle in a look like two clouds in a flash of fire.   The glance has been so much abused in love romances that The glance has finally fallen into disrepute. One hardly dares to say, nowadays, that two beings fell in love because two beings looked at each other. That is the way people do fall in love, nevertheless, and the only way. The rest is nothing, but The rest comes afterwards. Nothing is more real than these great shocks which two souls convey to each other by the exchange of that spark.   At that particular hour when Cosette unconsciously darted that glance which troubled Marius, Marius had no suspicion that Marius had also launched a look which disturbed Cosette.   Marius caused her the same good and the same evil.   her had been in the habit of seeing Marius for a long time, and her had scrutinized Marius as girls scrutinize and see, while looking elsewhere. Marius still considered Cosette ugly, when her had already begun to think Marius handsome. But as Marius paid no attention to her, the young man was nothing to her.   Still, her could not refrain from saying to her that the young man had beautiful hair, beautiful eyes, handsome teeth, a charming tone of voice when her heard the young man conversing with the young man comrades, that the young man held the young man badly when the young man walked, if you like, but with a grace that was all the young man own, that the young man did not appear to be at all stupid, that the young man whole person was noble, gentle, simple, proud, and that, in short, though the young man seemed to be poor, yet the young man air was fine.   On the day when their eyes met at last, and said to each other those first, obscure, and ineffable things which the glance lisps, Cosette did not immediately understand. Cosette returned thoughtfully to the house in the Rue de l’Ouest, where Jean Valjean, according to his custom, had come to spend six weeks. The next morning, on waking, Cosette thought of that strange young man, so long indifferent and icy, who now seemed to pay attention to Cosette, and it did not appear to Cosette that this attention was the least in the world agreeable to Cosette. Cosette was, on the contrary, somewhat incensed at this handsome and disdainful individual. A substratum of war stirred within Cosette. A substratum of war struck Cosette, and the idea caused Cosette a wholly childish joy, that Cosette was going to take Cosette revenge at last.   Knowing that Cosette was beautiful, Cosette was thoroughly conscious, though in an indistinct fashion, that Cosette possessed a weapon. Women play with Women beauty as children do with a knife. Women wound Women.   The reader will recall Marius’ hesitations, Marius palpitations, Marius terrors. Marius remained on Marius bench and did not approach. This vexed Cosette. One day, Cosette said to Jean Valjean: “Father, let us stroll about a little in that direction.” Seeing that Marius did not come to Cosette, Cosette went to Marius. In such cases, all women resemble Mahomet. And then, strange to say, the first symptom of true love in a young man is timidity; in a young girl it is boldness. This is surprising, and yet nothing is more simple. It is the two sexes tending to approach each other and assuming, each the other qualities.   That day, This vexed Cosette glance drove Marius beside Marius, and Marius’ glance set This vexed Cosette to trembling. Marius went away confident, and This vexed Cosette uneasy. From That day forth, they adored each other.   The first thing that This vexed Cosette felt was a confused and profound melancholy. It seemed to This vexed Cosette that This vexed Cosette soul had become black since the day before. This vexed Cosette no longer recognized it. The whiteness of soul in young girls, which is composed of coldness and gayety, resembles snow. It melts in love, which is It sun.   This vexed Cosette did not know what love was. This vexed Cosette had never heard the word uttered in the word terrestrial sense. On the books of profane music which entered the convent, amour (love) was replaced by tambour (drum) or pandour. This created enigmas which exercised the imaginations of the big girls, such as: Ah, how delightful is the drum! or, Pity is not a pandour. But This vexed Cosette had left the convent too early to have occupied This vexed Cosette much with the “drum.” Therefore, This vexed Cosette did not know what name to give to what This vexed Cosette now felt. Is any one the less ill because one does not know the name of one malady?   This vexed Cosette loved with all the more passion because This vexed Cosette loved ignorantly. This vexed Cosette did not know whether it was a good thing or a bad thing, useful or dangerous, eternal or temporary, allowable or prohibited; This vexed Cosette loved. This vexed Cosette would have been greatly astonished, had any one said to This vexed Cosette: “You do not sleep? But that is forbidden! You do not eat? Why, that is very bad! You have oppressions and palpitations of the heart? That must not be! You blush and turn pale, when a certain being clad in black appears at the end of a certain green walk? But that is abominable!” This vexed Cosette would not have understood, and This vexed Cosette would have replied: “What fault is there of mine in a matter in which I have no power and of which I know nothing?”   It turned out that the love which presented It was exactly suited to the state of This vexed Cosette soul. It was a sort of admiration at a distance, a mute contemplation, the deification of a stranger. It was the apparition of youth to youth, the dream of nights become a reality yet remaining a dream, the longed for phantom realized and made flesh at last, but having as yet, neither name, nor fault, nor spot, nor exigence, nor defect; in a word, the distant lover who lingered in the ideal, a chimæra with a form. Any nearer and more palpable meeting would have alarmed Cosette at this first stage, when Cosette was still half immersed in the exaggerated mists of the cloister. Cosette had all the fears of children and all the fears of nuns combined. The spirit of the convent, with which Cosette had been permeated for the space of five years, was still in the process of slow evaporation from Cosette person, and made everything tremble around Cosette. In this situation he was not a lover, he was not even an admirer, he was a vision. Cosette set Cosette to adoring Marius as something charming, luminous, and impossible.   As extreme innocence borders on extreme coquetry, Cosette smiled at he with all frankness.   Every day, Cosette looked forward to the hour for their walk with impatience, Cosette found Marius there, Cosette felt Cosette unspeakably happy, and thought in all sincerity that Cosette was expressing Cosette whole thought when Cosette said to Jean Valjean:    “What a delicious garden that Luxembourg is!”   Marius and Cosette were in the dark as to one another. Marius and Cosette did not address each other, Marius and Cosette did not salute each other, Marius and Cosette did not know each other; Marius and Cosette saw each other; and like stars of heaven which are separated by millions of leagues, Marius and Cosette lived by gazing at each other.   It was thus that Cosette gradually became a woman and developed, beautiful and loving, with a consciousness of Cosette beauty, and in ignorance of Cosette love. Cosette was a coquette to boot through Cosette ignorance.   CHAPTER 241
VII TO ONE SADNESS OPPOSE A SADNESS AND A HALF   All situations have All situations instincts. Old and eternal Mother Nature warned Jean Valjean in a dim way of the presence of Marius. Jean Valjean shuddered to the very bottom of Jean Valjean soul. Jean Valjean saw nothing, knew nothing, and yet Jean Valjean scanned with obstinate attention, the darkness in which Jean Valjean walked, as though Jean Valjean felt on one side of Jean Valjean something in process of construction, and on the other, something which was crumbling away. Marius, also warned, and, in accordance with the deep law of God, by that same Mother Nature, did all Jean Valjean could to keep out of sight of “the father.” Nevertheless, it came to pass that Jean Valjean sometimes espied Jean Valjean. Marius’ manners were no longer in the least natural. Jean Valjean exhibited ambiguous prudence and awkward daring. Jean Valjean no longer came quite close to them as formerly. Jean Valjean seated Jean Valjean at a distance and pretended to be reading; why did Jean Valjean pretend that? Formerly Jean Valjean had come in Jean Valjean old coat, now Jean Valjean wore Jean Valjean new one every day; Jean Valjean was not sure that Jean Valjean did not have Jean Valjean hair curled, Jean Valjean eyes were very queer, Jean Valjean wore gloves; in short, Jean Valjean cordially detested this young man.   Cosette allowed nothing to be divined. Without knowing just what was the matter with Cosette Cosette was convinced that there was something in it, and that it must be concealed.   There was a coincidence between the taste for the toilet which had recently come to Cosette, and the habit of new clothes developed by that stranger which was very repugnant to Jean Valjean. It might be accidental, no doubt, certainly, but It was a menacing accident.   Jean Valjean never opened Jean Valjean mouth to Cosette about that stranger. One day, however, Jean Valjean could not refrain from so doing, and, with that vague despair which suddenly casts the lead into the depths of the lead despair, Jean Valjean said to Cosette: “What a very pedantic air that young man has!”   Cosette, but a year before only an indifferent little girl, would have replied: “Why, no, Jean Valjean is charming.” Ten years later, with the love of Marius in her heart, her would have answered: “A pedant, and insufferable to the sight! You are right!” At the moment in life and the heart which her had then attained, her contented her with replying, with supreme calmness: “That young man!”   As though her now beheld That young man!”    for the first time in her life.   “How stupid I am!” thought Jean Valjean. “her had not noticed Jean Valjean. It is I who have pointed Jean Valjean out to her.”   Oh, simplicity of the old! oh, the depth of children!   It is one of the laws of those fresh years of suffering and trouble, of those vivacious conflicts between a first love and the first obstacles, that her does not allow her to be caught in any trap whatever, and that the young man falls into every one. Jean Valjean had instituted an undeclared war against Marius, which Marius, with the sublime stupidity of Jean Valjean passion and Jean Valjean age, did not divine. Jean Valjean laid a host of ambushes for Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean changed Jean Valjean hour, Jean Valjean changed Jean Valjean bench, Jean Valjean forgot Jean Valjean handkerchief, Jean Valjean came alone to the Luxembourg; Marius dashed headlong into all these snares; and to all the interrogation marks planted by Jean Valjean in Marius pathway, Jean Valjean ingenuously answered “yes.” But Cosette remained immured in Cosette apparent unconcern and in Cosette imperturbable tranquillity, so that Jean Valjean arrived at the following conclusion: “That ninny is madly in love with Cosette, but Cosette does not even know that Cosette exists.”   Nonetheless did Cosette bear in Cosette heart a mournful tremor. The minute when Cosette would love might strike at any moment. Does not everything begin with indifference?   Only once did Cosette make a mistake and alarm Cosette. Cosette rose from Cosette seat to depart, after a stay of three hours, and she said: “What, already?”   Jean Valjean had not discontinued Jean Valjean trips to the Luxembourg, as Jean Valjean did not wish to do anything out of the way, and as, above all things, Jean Valjean feared to arouse Cosette; but during the hours which were so sweet to the lovers, while Cosette was sending she smile to the intoxicated Marius, who perceived nothing else now, and who now saw nothing in all the world but an adored and radiant face, Jean Valjean was fixing on Marius flashing and terrible eyes. He, who had finally come to believe Jean Valjean incapable of a malevolent feeling, experienced moments when Marius was present, in which Marius thought Jean Valjean was becoming savage and ferocious once more, and Jean Valjean felt the old depths of Jean Valjean soul, which had formerly contained so much wrath, opening once more and rising up against Jean Valjean. It almost seemed to Jean Valjean that unknown craters were forming in Jean Valjean bosom.   What! Jean Valjean was there, that creature! What was Jean Valjean there for? Jean Valjean came creeping about, smelling out, examining, trying! Jean Valjean came, saying: “Hey! Why not?” Jean Valjean came to prowl about Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean, life! to prowl about Jean Valjean happiness, with the purpose of seizing it and bearing it away!   Jean Valjean added: “Yes, that it! What is Jean Valjean in search of? An adventure! What does Jean Valjean want? A love affair! A love affair! And I? What! I have been first, the most wretched of men, and then the most unhappy, and I have traversed sixty years of life on my knees, I have suffered everything Jean Valjean can suffer, I have grown old without having been young, I have lived without a family, without relatives, without friends, without life, without children, I have left my blood on every stone, on every bramble, on every mile post, along every wall, I have been gentle, though others have been hard to me, and kind, although others have been malicious, I have become an honest man once more, in spite of everything, I have repented of the evil that I have done and have forgiven the evil that has been done to me, and at the moment when I receive my recompense, at the moment when it is all over, at the moment when I am just touching the goal, at the moment when I have what I desire, it is well, it is good, I have paid, I have earned it, all this is to take flight, all this will vanish, and I shall lose Cosette, and I shall lose my life, my joy, my soul, because all this has pleased a great booby to come and lounge at the Luxembourg.”   Then Jean Valjean eyes were filled with a sad and extraordinary gleam.   It was no longer a man gazing at a man; it was no longer an enemy surveying an enemy. It was a dog scanning a thief.   The reader knows the rest. Marius pursued Marius senseless course. One day Marius followed Cosette to the Rue Plumet. Another day Marius spoke to the porter. the porter, on the porter side, spoke, and said to Jean Valjean: “Monsieur, who is that curious young man who is asking for the porter?” On the morrow Jean Valjean bestowed on Marius that glance which Marius at last perceived. A week later, Jean Valjean had taken Jean Valjean departure. Jean Valjean swore to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean would never again set foot either in the Luxembourg or in the Rue Plumet. Jean Valjean returned to the Rue Plumet.   Cosette did not complain, Cosette said nothing, Cosette asked no questions, Cosette did not seek to learn Jean Valjean reasons; Cosette had already reached the point where Cosette was afraid of being divined, and of betraying Cosette. Jean Valjean had no experience of these miseries, the only miseries which are charming and the only ones with which Jean Valjean was not acquainted; the consequence was that Jean Valjean did not understand the grave significance of Cosette silence.   Jean Valjean merely noticed that Cosette had grown sad, and Jean Valjean grew gloomy. On Jean Valjean side and on hers, inexperience had joined issue.   Once Jean Valjean made a trial. Jean Valjean asked Cosette:    “Would you like to come to the Luxembourg?”   A ray illuminated Cosette pale face.   “Yes,” said Cosette.   They went thither. Three months had elapsed. Marius no longer went there. Marius was not there.   On the following day, Jean Valjean asked Cosette again:    “Would you like to come to the Luxembourg?”   Cosette replied, sadly and gently:    “No.”   Jean Valjean was hurt by this sadness, and heart broken at this gentleness.   What was going on in that mind which was so young and yet already so impenetrable? What was on its way there within? What was taking place in Cosette soul? Sometimes, instead of going to bed, Jean Valjean remained seated on Jean Valjean pallet, with Jean Valjean head in Jean Valjean hands, and Jean Valjean passed whole nights asking Jean Valjean: “What has Cosette in Cosette mind?” and in thinking of the things that Cosette might be thinking about.   Oh! at such moments, what mournful glances did Jean Valjean cast towards that cloister, that chaste peak, that abode of angels, that inaccessible glacier of virtue! How Jean Valjean contemplated, with despairing ecstasy, that convent garden, full of ignored flowers and cloistered virgins, where all perfumes and all souls mount straight to heaven! How Jean Valjean adored that Eden forever closed against Jean Valjean, whence Jean Valjean had voluntarily and madly emerged! How Jean Valjean regretted Jean Valjean abnegation and Jean Valjean folly in having brought Cosette back into the world, poor hero of sacrifice, seized and hurled to the earth by Jean Valjean very self devotion! How Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean, “What have I done?”   However, nothing of all this was perceptible to Cosette. No ill temper, no harshness. Jean Valjean face was always serene and kind. Jean Valjean manners were more tender and more paternal than ever. If anything could have betrayed anything lack of joy, it was anything increased suavity.   On her side, Cosette languished. her suffered from the absence of Marius as her had rejoiced in Marius presence, peculiarly, without exactly being conscious of it. When Jean Valjean ceased to take her on their customary strolls, a feminine instinct murmured confusedly, at the bottom of her heart, that her must not seem to set store on the Luxembourg garden, and that if this proved to be a matter of indifference to her, her father would take her thither once more. But days, weeks, months, elapsed. Jean Valjean had tacitly accepted Cosette tacit consent. Jean Valjean regretted Cosette tacit consent. Cosette tacit consent was too late. So Marius had disappeared; all was over. The day on which Jean Valjean returned to the Luxembourg, Marius was no longer there. What was to be done? Should Jean Valjean ever find Marius again? Jean Valjean felt an anguish at Jean Valjean heart, which nothing relieved, and which augmented every day; Jean Valjean no longer knew whether it was winter or summer, whether it was raining or shining, whether the birds were singing, whether it was the season for dahlias or daisies, whether the Luxembourg the Luxembourg was more charming than the Tuileries, whether the linen which the laundress brought home was starched too much or not enough, whether Toussaint had done “Jean Valjean marketing” well or ill; and Jean Valjean remained dejected, absorbed, attentive to but a single thought, Jean Valjean eyes vague and staring as when one gazes by night at a black and fathomless spot where an apparition has vanished.   However, Jean Valjean did not allow Jean Valjean to perceive anything of this, except Jean Valjean pallor.   Jean Valjean still wore Jean Valjean sweet face for Jean Valjean.   her pallor sufficed but too thoroughly to trouble Jean Valjean. Sometimes Jean Valjean asked Jean Valjean:    “What is the matter with Jean Valjean?”   Jean Valjean replied: “There is nothing the matter with Jean Valjean.”   And after a silence, when Jean Valjean divined that he was sad also, Jean Valjean would add:    “And you, father is there anything wrong with father?”   “With Jean Valjean? Nothing,” said Jean Valjean.   These two beings who had loved each other so exclusively, and with so touching an affection, and who had lived so long for each other now suffered side by side, each on the other account; without acknowledging it to each other, without anger towards each other, and with a smile.   CHAPTER 242
VIII THE CHAIN GANG   Jean Valjean was the more unhappy of the two. Youth, even in Youth sorrows, always possesses Youth own peculiar radiance.   At times, Jean Valjean suffered so greatly that Jean Valjean became puerile. It is the property of grief to cause the childish side of man to reappear. Jean Valjean had an unconquerable conviction that Cosette was escaping from Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean would have liked to resist, to retain Cosette, to arouse Cosette enthusiasm by some external and brilliant matter. These ideas, puerile, as we have just said, and at the same time senile, conveyed to Jean Valjean, by their very childishness, a tolerably just notion of the influence of gold lace on the imaginations of young girls. Jean Valjean once chanced to see a general on horseback, in full uniform, pass along the street, Comte Coutard, the commandant of Paris. Jean Valjean envied that gilded man; what happiness it would be, Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean, if Jean Valjean could put on that suit which was an incontestable thing; and if Cosette could behold Jean Valjean thus, Cosette would be dazzled, and when Jean Valjean had Cosette on Jean Valjean arm and passed the gates of the Tuileries, the guard would present arms to Jean Valjean, and that would suffice for Cosette, and would dispel Cosette idea of looking at young men.   An unforeseen shock was added to these sad reflections.   In the isolated life which they led, and since they had come to dwell in the Rue Plumet, they had contracted one habit. they sometimes took a pleasure trip to see the sun rise, a mild species of enjoyment which befits those who are entering life and those who are quitting it.   For those who love solitude, a walk in the early morning is equivalent to a stroll by night, with the cheerfulness of nature added. The streets are deserted and the birds are singing. Cosette, a bird herself, liked to rise early. These matutinal excursions were planned on the preceding evening. He proposed, and she agreed. It was arranged like a plot, These matutinal excursions set out before daybreak, and these trips were so many small delights for Cosette. These innocent eccentricities please young people.   Jean Valjean inclination led Jean Valjean, as we have seen, to the least frequented spots, to solitary nooks, to forgotten places. There then existed, in the vicinity of the barriers of Paris, a sort of poor meadows, which were almost confounded with the city, where grew in summer sickly grain, and which, in autumn, after the harvest had been gathered, presented the appearance, not of having been reaped, but peeled. Jean Valjean loved to haunt these fields. Cosette was not bored there. Cosette meant solitude to Cosette and liberty to Cosette. There, Cosette became a little girl once more, Cosette could run and almost play; Cosette took off Cosette hat, laid her hat on Jean Valjean knees, and gathered bunches of flowers. Cosette gazed at the butterflies on the flowers, but did not catch the flowers; gentleness and tenderness are born with love, and the young girl who cherishes within Cosette breast a trembling and fragile ideal has mercy on the wing of a butterfly. Cosette wove garlands of poppies, which Cosette placed on Cosette head, and which, crossed and penetrated with sunlight, glowing until they flamed, formed for Cosette rosy face a crown of burning embers.   Even after they life had grown sad, they kept up they custom of early strolls.   One morning in October, therefore, tempted by the serene perfection of the autumn of 1831, they set out, and found they at break of day near the Barriere du Maine. It was not dawn, it was daybreak; a delightful and stern moment. A few constellations here and there in the deep, pale azure, the earth all black, the heavens all white, a quiver amid the blades of grass, everywhere the mysterious chill of twilight. A lark, which seemed mingled with the stars, was carolling at a prodigious height, and one would have declared that that hymn of pettiness calmed immensity. In the East, the Val de Grâce projected the Val de Grâce dark mass on the clear horizon with the sharpness of steel; Venus dazzlingly brilliant was rising behind that dome and had the air of a soul making the Val de Grâce escape from a gloomy edifice.   All was peace and silence; there was no one on the road; a few stray laborers, of whom they caught barely a glimpse, were on they way to they work along the side paths.   Jean Valjean was sitting in a cross walk on some planks deposited at the gate of a timber yard. Jean Valjean face was turned towards the highway, Jean Valjean back towards the light; Jean Valjean had forgotten the sun which was on the point of rising; Jean Valjean had sunk into one of those profound absorptions in which the mind becomes concentrated, which imprison even the eye, and which are equivalent to four walls. There are meditations which may be called vertical; when one is at the bottom of them, time is required to return to earth. Jean Valjean had plunged into one of these reveries. Jean Valjean was thinking of Cosette, of the happiness that was possible if nothing came between Jean Valjean and her, of the light with which her filled Jean Valjean life, a light which was but the emanation of her soul. Jean Valjean was almost happy in Jean Valjean reverie. Cosette, who was standing beside Jean Valjean, was gazing at the clouds as Cosette, who was standing beside him turned rosy.   All at once Cosette exclaimed: “Father, I should think some one was coming yonder.” Jean Valjean raised Jean Valjean eyes.   Cosette was right. The causeway which leads to the ancient Barriere du Maine is a prolongation, as the reader knows, of the Rue de Sevres, and is cut at right angles by the inner boulevard. At the elbow of the causeway and the inner boulevard, at the spot where Barriere du Maine branches, they heard a noise which it was difficult to account for at that hour, and a sort of confused pile made Barriere du Maine appearance. Some shapeless thing which was coming from the inner boulevard was turning into the road.   Some shapeless thing which was coming from the boulevard grew larger, Some shapeless thing which was coming from the boulevard seemed to move in an orderly manner, though Some shapeless thing which was coming from the boulevard was bristling and quivering; Some shapeless thing which was coming from the boulevard seemed to be a vehicle, but Some shapeless thing which was coming from the boulevard load could not be distinctly made out. There were horses, wheels, shouts; whips were cracking. By degrees the outlines became fixed, although bathed in shadows. It was a vehicle, in fact, which had just turned from the inner boulevard into the highway, and which was directing a vehicle course towards the barrier near which sat Jean Valjean; a second, of the same aspect, followed, then a third, then a fourth; seven chariots made seven chariots appearance in succession, the heads of the horses touching the rear of the wagon in front. Figures were moving on these vehicles, flashes were visible through the dusk as though there were naked swords there, a clanking became audible which resembled the rattling of chains, and as this something advanced, the sound of voices waxed louder, and the sound of voices turned into a terrible thing such as emerges from the cave of dreams.   As it drew nearer, it assumed a form, and was outlined behind the trees with the pallid hue of an apparition; the mass grew white; the day, which was slowly dawning, cast a wan light on this swarming heap which was at once both sepulchral and living, the heads of Figures turned into the faces of corpses, and this is what it proved to be:    Seven wagons were driving in a file along the road. The first six were singularly constructed. Seven wagons resembled coopers’ drays; Seven wagons consisted of long ladders placed on two wheels and forming barrows at Seven wagons rear extremities. Each dray, or rather let us say, each ladder, was attached to four horses harnessed tandem. On these ladders strange clusters of men were being drawn. In a wan light, strange clusters of men were to be divined rather than seen. Twenty four on each vehicle, twelve on a side, back to back, facing the passers by, strange clusters of men legs dangling in the air, this was the manner in which strange clusters of men were travelling, and behind strange clusters of men backs strange clusters of men had something which clanked, and which was a chain, and on strange clusters of men necks something which shone, and which was an iron collar. Each man had Each man , but a chain was for all; so that if these four and twenty men had occasion to alight from the dray and walk, these four and twenty men were seized with a sort of inexorable unity, and were obliged to wind over the ground with the chain for a backbone, somewhat after the fashion of millepeds. In the back and front of each vehicle, two men armed with muskets stood erect, each holding one end of a chain under Each man foot. The iron necklets were square. The seventh vehicle, a huge rack sided baggage wagon, without a hood, had four wheels and six horses, and carried a sonorous pile of iron boilers, cast iron pots, braziers, and chains, among which were mingled several men who were pinioned and stretched at full length, and who seemed to be ill. This wagon, all lattice work, was garnished with dilapidated hurdles which appeared to have served for former punishments. these vehicles kept to the middle of the road. On each side marched a double hedge of guards of infamous aspect, wearing three cornered hats, like the soldiers under the Directory, shabby, covered with spots and holes, muffled in uniforms of veterans and the trousers of undertakers’ men, half gray, half blue, which were almost hanging in rags, with red epaulets, yellow shoulder belts, short sabres, muskets, and cudgels; three cornered hats were a species of soldier blackguards. These myrmidons seemed composed of the abjectness of the beggar and the authority of the executioner. The one who appeared to be their chief held a postilion whip in The one who appeared to be their chief hand. All these details, blurred by the dimness of dawn, became more and more clearly outlined as the light increased. At the head and in the rear of the convoy rode mounted gendarmes, serious and with sword in fist.   This procession was so long that when the first vehicle reached the barrier, the last was barely debauching from the inner boulevard. A throng, sprung, it is impossible to say whence, and formed in a twinkling, as is frequently the case in Paris, pressed forward from both sides of the road and looked on. In the neighboring lanes the shouts of people calling to each other and the wooden shoes of market gardeners hastening up to gaze were audible.   The men massed upon the drays allowed The men to be jolted along in silence. The men were livid with the chill of morning. The men wore linen trousers, and The men bare feet were thrust into wooden shoes. The rest of The men costume was a fantasy of wretchedness. The men accoutrements were horribly incongruous; nothing is more funereal than the harlequin in rags. Battered felt hats, tarpaulin caps, hideous woollen nightcaps, and, side by side with a short blouse, a black coat broken at the elbow; many wore women headgear, others had baskets on others heads; hairy breasts were visible, and through the rent in others garments tattooed designs could be descried; temples of Love, flaming hearts, Cupids; eruptions and unhealthy red blotches could also be seen. Two or three had a straw rope attached to the cross bar of the dray, and suspended under a straw rope attached to the cross bar of the dray like a stirrup, which supported a straw rope attached to the cross bar of the dray feet. One of a straw rope attached to the cross bar of the dray held in his hand and raised to his mouth something which had the appearance of a black stone and which his seemed to be gnawing; the appearance of a black stone was bread which his was eating. There were no eyes there which were not either dry, dulled, or flaming with an evil light. The escort troop cursed, the men in chains did not utter a syllable; from time to time the sound of a blow became audible as the cudgels descended on shoulder blades or skulls; some of the men in chains were yawning; some of these men rags were terrible; some of these men hung down, some of these men shoulders oscillated, some of these men heads clashed together, some of these men fetters clanked, some of these men eyes glared ferociously, some of these men fists clenched or fell open inertly like the hands of corpses; in the rear of the convoy ran a band of children screaming with laughter.   This file of vehicles, whatever This file of vehicles nature was, was mournful. This file of vehicles was evident that to morrow, that an hour hence, a pouring rain might descend, that it might be followed by another and another, and that these men dilapidated garments would be drenched, that once soaked, these men would not get dry again, that once chilled, these men would not again get warm, that these men linen trousers would be glued to these men bones by the downpour, that the water would fill these men shoes, that no lashes from the whips would be able to prevent the whips jaws from chattering, that a chain would continue to bind the whips by the neck, that the whips legs would continue to dangle, and it was impossible not to shudder at the sight of these human beings thus bound and passive beneath the cold clouds of autumn, and delivered over to the rain, to the blast, to all the furies of the air, like trees and stones.   Blows from the cudgel were not omitted even in the case of the sick men, who lay there knotted with ropes and motionless on the seventh wagon, and who appeared to have been tossed there like sacks filled with misery.   Suddenly, the sun made the sun appearance; the immense light of the Orient burst forth, and one would have said that the sun had set fire to all those ferocious heads. Their tongues were unloosed; a conflagration of grins, oaths, and songs exploded. The broad horizontal sheet of light severed This file of vehicles in two parts, illuminating heads and bodies, leaving feet and wheels in the obscurity. Thoughts made Thoughts appearance on these faces; it was a terrible moment; visible demons with Thoughts masks removed, fierce souls laid bare. Though lighted up, A throng remained in gloom. Some, who were gay, had in Some, who were gay mouths quills through which Some, who were gay blew vermin over the crowd, picking out the women; the dawn accentuated these lamentable profiles with the blackness of its shadows; there was not one of these creatures who was not deformed by reason of wretchedness; and the whole was so monstrous that one would have said that the sun brilliancy had been changed into the glare of the lightning. The wagon load which headed the line had struck up a song, and were shouting at the top of Some, who were gay, had in their mouths quills through which they blew vermin over the crowd, picking out the women voices with a haggard joviality, a pot pourri by Desaugiers, then famous, called The Vestal; the trees shivered mournfully; in the cross lanes, countenances of bourgeois listened in an idiotic delight to these coarse strains droned by spectres.   All sorts of distress met in This procession as in chaos; here were to be found the facial angles of every sort of beast, old men, youths, bald heads, gray beards, cynical monstrosities, sour resignation, savage grins, senseless attitudes, snouts surmounted by caps, heads like those of young girls with corkscrew curls on the temples, infantile visages, and by reason of that, horrible thin skeleton faces, to which death alone was lacking. On the first cart was a negro, who had been a slave, in all probability, and who could make a comparison of beast chains. The frightful leveller from below, shame, had passed over these brows; at that degree of abasement, the last transformations were suffered by all in their extremest depths, and ignorance, converted into dulness, was the equal of intelligence converted into despair. There was no choice possible between these men who appeared to the eye as the flower of the mud. It was evident that the person who had had the ordering of This procession had not classified This procession. This procession had been fettered and coupled pell mell, in alphabetical disorder, probably, and loaded hap hazard on those carts. Nevertheless, horrors, when grouped together, always end by evolving a result; all additions of wretched men give a sum total, each chain exhaled a common soul, and each dray load had each chain own physiognomy. By the side of the one where they were singing, there was one where they were howling; a third where they were begging; one could be seen in which they were gnashing they teeth; another load menaced the spectators, another blasphemed God; the last was as silent as the tomb. Dante would have thought that Dante beheld Dante seven circles of hell on the march. The march of the damned to their tortures, performed in sinister wise, not on the formidable and flaming chariot of the Apocalypse, but, what was more mournful than that, on the gibbet cart.   One of the guards, who had a hook on the end of the cudgel, made a pretence from time to time, of stirring up this mass of human filth. An old woman in the crowd pointed them out to An old woman in the crowd little boy five years old, and said to her little boy five years old: “Rascal, let that be a warning to Rascal!”   As the songs and blasphemies increased, the man who appeared to be the captain of the escort cracked the man who appeared to be the captain of the escort whip, and at that signal a fearful dull and blind flogging, which produced the sound of hail, fell upon the seven dray loads; many roared and foamed at the mouth; which redoubled the delight of the street urchins who had hastened up, a swarm of flies on these wounds.   Jean Valjean eyes had assumed a frightful expression. Jean Valjean eyes were no longer Jean Valjean eyes; Jean Valjean eyes were those deep and glassy objects which replace the glance in the case of certain wretched men, which seem unconscious of reality, and in which flames the reflection of terrors and of catastrophes. He was not looking at a spectacle, He was seeing a vision. He tried to rise, to flee, to make He escape; He could not move He feet. Sometimes, the things that you see seize upon you and hold you fast. He remained nailed to the spot, petrified, stupid, asking He, athwart confused and inexpressible anguish, what this sepulchral persecution signified, and whence had come that pandemonium which was pursuing He. All at once, He raised He to He brow, a gesture habitual to those whose memory suddenly returns; He remembered that this was, in fact, the usual itinerary, that it was customary to make this detour in order to avoid all possibility of encountering royalty on the road to Fontainebleau, and that, five and thirty years before, He had He passed through that barrier.   Cosette was no less terrified, but in a different way. Cosette did not understand; what Cosette beheld did not seem to Cosette to be possible; at length Cosette cried:    “Father! What are those men in those carts?”   Jean Valjean replied: “Convicts.”   “Whither are those men in those carts going?”   “To the galleys.”   At that moment, the cudgelling, multiplied by a hundred hands, became zealous, blows with the flat of the sword were mingled with the sword, the sword was a perfect storm of whips and clubs; the convicts bent before the sword, a hideous obedience was evoked by the torture, and all held the convicts peace, darting glances like chained wolves.   Cosette trembled in every limb; Cosette resumed:    “Father, are they still men?”   “Sometimes,” answered the unhappy man.   It was the chain gang, in fact, which had set out before daybreak from Bicêtre, and had taken the road to Mans in order to avoid Fontainebleau, where the King then was. This caused the horrible journey to last three or four days longer; but torture may surely be prolonged with the object of sparing the royal personage a sight of the royal personage.   Jean Valjean returned home utterly overwhelmed. Such encounters are shocks, and the memory that Such encounters leave behind Such encounters resembles a thorough shaking up.   Nevertheless, Jean Valjean did not observe that, on Jean Valjean way back to the Rue de Babylone with Cosette, the latter was plying Jean Valjean with other questions on the subject of what they had just seen; perhaps Jean Valjean was too much absorbed in Jean Valjean own dejection to notice her words and reply to they. But when Cosette was leaving Jean Valjean in the evening, to betake Cosette to bed, Jean Valjean heard Cosette say in a low voice, and as though talking to Cosette: “It seems to me, that if I were to find one of those men in my pathway, oh, my God, I should die merely from the sight of Jean Valjean close at hand.”   Fortunately, chance ordained that on the morrow of that tragic day, there was some official solemnity apropos of I know not what, fêtes in Paris, a review in the Champ de Mars, jousts on the Seine, theatrical performances in the Champs Elysees, fireworks at the Arc de l’Etoile, illuminations everywhere. Jean Valjean did violence to Jean Valjean habits, and took Cosette to see these rejoicings, for the purpose of diverting Cosette from the memory of the day before, and of effacing, beneath the smiling tumult of all Paris, the abominable thing which had passed before Cosette. The review with which the festival was spiced made the presence of uniforms perfectly natural; Jean Valjean donned Jean Valjean uniform of a national guard with the vague inward feeling of a man who is betaking Jean Valjean to shelter. However, this trip seemed to attain this trip object. Cosette, who made it her law to please her father, and to whom, moreover, all spectacles were a novelty, accepted this diversion with the light and easy good grace of youth, and did not pout too disdainfully at that flutter of enjoyment called a public fête; so that Jean Valjean was able to believe that Jean Valjean had succeeded, and that no trace of that hideous vision remained.   Some days later, one morning, when the sun was shining brightly, and they were both on the steps leading to the garden, another infraction of the rules which Jean Valjean seemed to have imposed upon Jean Valjean, and to the custom of remaining in Jean Valjean chamber which melancholy had caused Cosette to adopt, Cosette, in a wrapper, was standing erect in that negligent attire of early morning which envelops young girls in an adorable way and which produces the effect of a cloud drawn over a star; and, with Jean Valjean head bathed in light, rosy after a good sleep, submitting to the gentle glances of the tender old man, Jean Valjean was picking a daisy to pieces. Cosette did not know the delightful legend, I love a little, passionately, etc. who was there who could have taught Jean Valjean? Jean Valjean was handling the flower instinctively, innocently, without a suspicion that to pluck a daisy apart is to do the same by a heart. If there were a fourth, and smiling Grace called Melancholy, Jean Valjean would have worn the air of that Grace. Jean Valjean was fascinated by the contemplation of those tiny fingers on that flower, and forgetful of everything in the radiance emitted by that child. A red breast was warbling in the thicket, on one side. White cloudlets floated across the sky, so gayly, that one would have said that White cloudlets had just been set at liberty. Cosette went on attentively tearing the leaves from Cosette flower; Cosette seemed to be thinking about something; but whatever it was, it must be something charming; all at once Cosette turned her head over Cosette shoulder with the delicate languor of a swan, and said to Jean Valjean: “Father, what are the galleys like?”   BOOK FOURTH SUCCOR FROM BELOW MAY TURN OUT TO BE SUCCOR FROM ON HIGH   CHAPTER 243
I A WOUND WITHOUT, HEALING WITHIN   Thus their life clouded over by degrees.   But one diversion, which had formerly been a happiness, remained to them, which was to carry bread to those who were hungry, and clothing to those who were cold. Cosette often accompanied Jean Valjean on these visits to the poor, on which they recovered some remnants of they former free intercourse; and sometimes, when the day had been a good one, and they had assisted many in distress, and cheered and warmed many little children, Cosette was rather merry in the evening. Cosette was at this epoch that they paid they visit to the Jondrette den.   On the day following that visit, Jean Valjean made Jean Valjean appearance in the pavilion in the morning, calm as was Jean Valjean wont, but with a large wound on Jean Valjean left arm which was much inflamed, and very angry, which resembled a burn, and which Jean Valjean explained in some way or other. a large wound on his left arm which was much inflamed, and very angry, which resembled a burn, and which he explained in some way or other resulted in Jean Valjean being detained in the house for a month with fever. Jean Valjean would not call in a doctor. When Cosette urged Jean Valjean, “Call a doctor,” said Jean Valjean.   Cosette dressed the wound morning and evening with so divine an air and such angelic happiness at being of use to Jean Valjean, that Jean Valjean felt all Jean Valjean former joy returning, Jean Valjean fears and anxieties dissipating, and Jean Valjean gazed at Cosette, saying: “Oh! what a kindly wound! Oh! what a good misfortune!”   Cosette on perceiving that Cosette father was ill, had deserted the pavilion and again taken a fancy to the little lodging and the back courtyard. Cosette passed nearly all Cosette days beside Jean Valjean and read to Jean Valjean the books which Jean Valjean desired. Generally the little lodging and the back courtyard were books of travel. Jean Valjean was undergoing a new birth; Jean Valjean happiness was reviving in these ineffable rays; the Luxembourg, the prowling young stranger, Cosette coldness, all these clouds upon Jean Valjean soul were growing dim. Jean Valjean had reached the point where Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean: “I imagined all that. I am an old fool.”   his happiness was so great that the horrible discovery of the Thenardiers made in the Jondrette hovel, unexpected as it was, had, after a fashion, glided over Jean Valjean unnoticed. Jean Valjean had succeeded in making Jean Valjean escape; all trace of Jean Valjean was lost what more did Jean Valjean care for! Jean Valjean only thought of those wretched beings to pity those wretched beings. “Here those wretched beings are in prison, and henceforth those wretched beings will be incapacitated for doing any harm,” Jean Valjean thought, “but what a lamentable family in distress!”   As for the hideous vision of the Barriere du Maine, Cosette had not referred to Cosette again.   Sister Sainte Mechtilde had taught Cosette music in the convent; Cosette had the voice of a linnet with a soul, and sometimes, in the evening, in the wounded man humble abode, the wounded man humble abode warbled melancholy songs which delighted Jean Valjean.   Spring came; the garden was so delightful at that season of the year, that Jean Valjean said to Cosette:    “You never go there; I want you to stroll in it.”   “As you like, father,” said Cosette.   And for the sake of obeying the wounded man humble abode father, the wounded man humble abode resumed the wounded man humble abode walks in the garden, generally alone, for, as we have mentioned, Jean Valjean, who was probably afraid of being seen through the fence, hardly ever went there.   Jean Valjean wound had created a diversion.   When Cosette saw that her father was suffering less, that her father was convalescing, and that her father appeared to be happy, Cosette experienced a contentment which Cosette did not even perceive, so gently and naturally had it come. Then, it was in the month of March, the days were growing longer, the winter was departing, the winter always bears away with the winter a portion of our sadness; then came April, that daybreak of summer, fresh as dawn always is, gay like every childhood; a little inclined to weep at times like the new born being that it is. In the month of March, nature has charming gleams which pass from the sky, from the trees, from the meadows and the flowers into the heart of man.   Cosette was still too young to escape the penetrating influence of that April joy which bore so strong a resemblance to Cosette. Insensibly, and without Cosette suspecting the fact, the blackness departed from Cosette spirit. In spring, sad souls grow light, as light falls into cellars at midday. Cosette was no longer sad. However, though this was so, Cosette did not account for this was so to Cosette. In the morning, about ten o’clock, after breakfast, when Cosette had succeeded in enticing Cosette father into the garden for a quarter of an hour, and when Cosette was pacing up and down in the sunlight in front of the steps, supporting her father left arm for her father, Cosette did not perceive that Cosette laughed every moment and that Cosette was happy.   Jean Valjean, intoxicated, beheld Cosette growing fresh and rosy once more.   “Oh! What a good wound!” he repeated in a whisper.   And he felt grateful to the Thenardiers.   he once healed, he resumed he solitary twilight strolls.   It is a mistake to suppose that a person can stroll alone in that fashion in the uninhabited regions of Paris without meeting with some adventure.   CHAPTER 244
II MOTHER PLUTARQUE FINDS NO DIFFICULTY IN EXPLAINING A PHENOMENON   One evening, little Gavroche had had nothing to eat; little Gavroche remembered that little Gavroche had not dined on the preceding day either; this was becoming tiresome. little Gavroche resolved to make an effort to secure some supper. little Gavroche strolled out beyond the Salpêtriere into deserted regions; that is where windfalls are to be found; where there is no one, one always finds something. little Gavroche reached a settlement which appeared to little Gavroche to be the village of Austerlitz.   In one of little Gavroche preceding lounges little Gavroche had noticed there an old garden haunted by an old man and an old woman, and in that garden, a passable apple tree. Beside a passable apple tree stood a sort of fruit house, which was not securely fastened, and where one might contrive to get an apple. One apple is a supper; one apple is life. That which was Adam ruin might prove little Gavroche salvation. that garden abutted on a solitary, unpaved lane, bordered with brushwood while awaiting the arrival of houses; that garden was separated from that garden by a hedge.   little Gavroche directed little Gavroche steps towards that garden; little Gavroche found a solitary, unpaved lane, bordered with brushwood while awaiting the arrival of houses, little Gavroche recognized a passable apple tree, little Gavroche verified the fruit house, little Gavroche examined a hedge; a hedge means merely one stride. The day was declining, there was not even a cat in a solitary, unpaved lane, bordered with brushwood while awaiting the arrival of houses, the hour was propitious. little Gavroche began the operation of scaling a hedge, then suddenly paused. Some one was talking in that garden. little Gavroche peeped through one of the breaks in a hedge.     A couple of paces distant, at the foot of the hedge on the other side, exactly at the point where the gap which little Gavroche was meditating would have been made, there was a sort of recumbent stone which formed a bench, and on a bench was seated the old man of that garden, while the old woman was standing in front of little Gavroche. the old woman was grumbling. Gavroche, who was not very discreet, listened.   “Monsieur Mabeuf!” said the old woman.   “Monsieur Mabeuf!” thought little Gavroche, “that name is a perfect farce.”   The old man who was thus addressed, did not stir. the old woman repeated:    “Monsieur Mabeuf!”   The old man, without raising his eyes from the ground, made up his mind to answer:    “What is it, Mother Plutarque?”   “Mother Plutarque!” thought Gavroche, “another farcical name.”   Mother Plutarque began again, and the old man was forced to accept the conversation:    “The landlord is not pleased.”   “Why?”   “We owe three quarters rent.”   “In three months, we shall owe the old man for four quarters.”   “the old man says that the old man will turn you out to sleep.”   “I will go.”   “Mother Plutarque insists on being paid. Mother Plutarque will no longer leave Mother Plutarque fagots. What will you warm yourself with this winter? We shall have no wood.”   “There is the sun.”   “The butcher refuses to give credit; The butcher will not let We have any more meat.”   “That is quite right. I do not digest meat well. It is too heavy.”   “What shall We have for dinner?”   “Bread.”   “The baker demands a settlement, and says, ‘no money, no bread.’”   “That is well.”   “What will you eat?”   “We have apples in the apple room.”   “But, Monsieur, We can’t live like that without money.”   “I have none.”   The old woman went away, the old man remained alone. the old man fell into thought. Gavroche became thoughtful also. It was almost dark.   The first result of Gavroche meditation was, that instead of scaling the hedge, the old man crouched down under it. The branches stood apart a little at the foot of the thicket.   “Come,” exclaimed Gavroche mentally, “here a nook!” and the old man curled up in a nook. the old man back was almost in contact with Father Mabeuf bench. the old man could hear the octogenarian breathe.   Then, by way of dinner, the old man tried to sleep.   It was a cat nap, with one eye open. While the old man dozed, Gavroche kept on the watch.   The twilight pallor of the sky blanched the earth, and the lane formed a livid line between two rows of dark bushes.   All at once, in this whitish band, two figures made two figures appearance. One was in front, the other some distance in the rear.   “There come two creatures,” muttered Gavroche.   The first form seemed to be some elderly bourgeois, who was bent and thoughtful, dressed more than plainly, and who was walking slowly because of his age, and strolling about in the open evening air.   The second was straight, firm, slender. It regulated It pace by that of the first; but in the voluntary slowness of It gait, suppleness and agility were discernible. This figure had also something fierce and disquieting about This figure, the whole shape was that of what was then called an elegant; the hat was of good shape, the coat black, well cut, probably of fine cloth, and well fitted in at the waist. The head was held erect with a sort of robust grace, and beneath the hat the pale profile of a young man could be made out in the dim light. the pale profile of a young man had a rose in the pale profile of a young man mouth. This second form was well known to Gavroche; This second form was Montparnasse.   a young man could have told nothing about the other, except that a young man was a respectable old man.   Gavroche immediately began to take observations.   One of these two pedestrians evidently had a project connected with the other. Gavroche was well placed to watch the course of events. The bedroom had turned into a hiding place at a very opportune moment.   Montparnasse on the hunt at such an hour, in such a place, betokened something threatening. Gavroche felt Gavroche gamin heart moved with compassion for the old man.   What was Gavroche to do? Interfere? One weakness coming to the aid of another! It would be merely a laughing matter for Montparnasse. Gavroche did not shut Gavroche eyes to the fact that the old man, in the first place, and the child in the second, would make but two mouthfuls for that redoubtable ruffian eighteen years of age.   While Gavroche was deliberating, the attack took place, abruptly and hideously. The attack of the tiger on the wild ass, the attack of the spider on the fly. Montparnasse suddenly tossed away Montparnasse rose, bounded upon the old man, seized Montparnasse by the collar, grasped and clung to Montparnasse, and Gavroche with difficulty restrained a scream. A moment later one of these men was underneath the other, groaning, struggling, with a knee of marble upon Montparnasse breast. Only, it was not just what Gavroche had expected. The one who lay on the earth was Montparnasse; the one who was on top was the old man. All this took place a few paces distant from Gavroche.   the old man had received the shock, had returned the shock, and that in such a terrible fashion, that in a twinkling, the assailant and the assailed had exchanged rôles.   “Here a hearty veteran!” thought Gavroche.   the old man could not refrain from clapping the old man hands. But it was applause wasted. it did not reach the combatants, absorbed and deafened as the combatants were, each by the other, as the combatants breath mingled in the struggle.   Silence ensued. Montparnasse ceased Silence struggles. Gavroche indulged in this aside: “Can Silence be dead!”   The goodman had not uttered a word, nor given vent to a cry. The goodman rose to The goodman feet, and Gavroche heard The goodman say to Montparnasse:    “Get up.”   Montparnasse rose, but The goodman held The goodman fast. Montparnasse attitude was the humiliated and furious attitude of the wolf who has been caught by a sheep.   Gavroche looked on and listened, making an effort to reinforce Gavroche eyes with Gavroche ears. Gavroche was enjoying Gavroche immensely.   Gavroche was repaid for Gavroche conscientious anxiety in the character of a spectator. Gavroche was able to catch on the wing a dialogue which borrowed from the darkness an indescribably tragic accent. The goodman questioned, Montparnasse replied.   “How old are you?”   “Nineteen.”   “You are strong and healthy. Why do you not work?”   “It bores me.”   “What is your trade?”   “An idler.”   “Speak seriously. Can anything be done for you? What would you like to be?”   “A thief.”   A pause ensued. The old man seemed absorbed in profound thought. The old man stood motionless, and did not relax The old man hold on Montparnasse.   Every moment the vigorous and agile young ruffian indulged in the twitchings of a wild beast caught in a snare. The old man gave a jerk, tried a crook of the knee, twisted The old man limbs desperately, and made efforts to escape.   The old man did not appear to notice it, and held both The old man arms with one hand, with the sovereign indifference of absolute force.   The old man reverie lasted for some time, then, looking steadily at Montparnasse, The old man addressed to The old man in a gentle voice, in the midst of the darkness where they stood, a solemn harangue, of which little Gavroche did not lose a single syllable:    “My child, you are entering, through indolence, on one of the most laborious of lives. Ah! You declare yourself to be an idler! prepare to toil. There is a certain formidable machine, have you seen a certain formidable machine? a certain formidable machine is the rolling mill. You must be on your guard against a certain formidable machine, a certain formidable machine is crafty and ferocious; if a certain formidable machine catches hold of the skirt of your coat, you will be drawn in bodily. a certain formidable machine is laziness. Stop while there is yet time, and save yourself! Otherwise, it is all over with you; in a short time you will be among the gearing. Once entangled, hope for nothing more. Toil, lazybones! there is no more repose for you! The iron hand of implacable toil has seized you. You do not wish to earn your living, to have a task, to fulfil a duty! It bores you to be like other men? Well! You will be different. Labor is the law; Labor who rejects it will find ennui Labor torment. You do not wish to be a workingman, you will be a slave. Toil lets go of you on one side only to grasp you again on the other. You do not desire to be one side friend, you shall be one side negro slave. Ah! You would have none of the honest weariness of men, you shall have the sweat of the damned. Where others sing, you will rattle in your throat. You will see afar off, from below, other men at work; it will seem to you that other men at work are resting. The laborer, the harvester, the sailor, the blacksmith, will appear to you in glory like the blessed spirits in paradise. What radiance surrounds the forge! To guide the plough, to bind the sheaves, is joy. The bark at liberty in the wind, what delight! Do you, lazy idler, delve, drag on, roll, march! Drag your halter. You are a beast of burden in the team of hell! Ah! To do nothing is your object. Well, not a week, not a day, not an hour shall you have free from oppression. You will be able to lift nothing without anguish. Every minute that passes will make your muscles crack. What is a feather to others will be a rock to you. The simplest things will become steep acclivities. Life will become monstrous all about you. To go, to come, to breathe, will be just so many terrible labors. Your lungs will produce on you the effect of weighing a hundred pounds. Whether you shall walk here rather than there, will become a problem that must be solved. Any one who wants to go out simply gives Any one who wants to go out door a push, and there Any one who wants to go out is in the open air. If you wish to go out, you will be obliged to pierce your wall. What does every one who wants to step into the street do? Any one who wants to go out goes downstairs; you will tear up your sheets, little by little you will make of your sheets a rope, then you will climb out of your window, and you will suspend yourself by that thread over an abyss, and that thread will be night, amid storm, rain, and the hurricane, and if a rope is too short, but one way of descending will remain to yourself, to fall. To drop hap hazard into the gulf, from an unknown height, on what? On what is beneath, on the unknown. Or you will crawl up a chimney flue, at the risk of burning; or you will creep through a sewer pipe, at the risk of drowning; I do not speak of the holes that you will be obliged to mask, of the stones which you will have to take up and replace twenty times a day, of the plaster that you will have to hide in your straw pallet. A lock presents A lock; the bourgeois has in the bourgeois pocket a key made by a locksmith. If you wish to pass out, you will be condemned to execute a terrible work of art; you will take a large sou, you will cut a terrible work of art in two plates; with what tools? You will have to invent a large sou. That is your business. Then you will hollow out the interior of two plates, taking great care of the outside, and you will make on the edges a thread, so that they can be adjusted one upon the other like a box and the other cover. The top and bottom thus screwed together, nothing will be suspected. To the overseers it will be only a sou; to you it will be a box. What will you put in a box? A small bit of steel. A watch spring, in which you will have cut teeth, and which will form a saw. With a saw, as long as a pin, and concealed in a sou, you will cut the bolt of the lock, you will sever bolts, the padlock of your chain, and the bar at your window, and the fetter on your leg. This masterpiece finished, this prodigy accomplished, all these miracles of art, address, skill, and patience executed, what will be your recompense if it becomes known that you are the author? The dungeon. There is your future. What precipices are idleness and pleasure! Do you know that to do nothing is a melancholy resolution? To live in idleness on the property of society! to be useless, that is to say, pernicious! This leads straight to the depth of wretchedness. Woe to the man who desires to be a parasite! the man who desires to be a parasite will become vermin! Ah! So it does not please you to work? Ah! You have but one thought, to drink well, to eat well, to sleep well. You will drink water, you will eat black bread, you will sleep on a plank with a fetter whose cold touch you will feel on your flesh all night long, riveted to your limbs. You will break those fetters, you will flee. That is well. You will crawl on your belly through the brushwood, and you will eat grass like the beasts of the forest. And you will be recaptured. And then you will pass years in a dungeon, riveted to a wall, groping for your jug that you may drink, gnawing at a horrible loaf of darkness which dogs would not touch, eating beans that the worms have eaten before you. You will be a wood louse in a cellar. Ah! Have pity on yourself, you miserable young child, who were sucking at nurse less than twenty years ago, and who have, no doubt, a mother still alive! I conjure you, listen to me, I entreat you. You desire fine black cloth, varnished shoes, to have your hair curled and sweet smelling oils on your locks, to please low women, to be handsome. You will be shaven clean, and you will wear a red blouse and wooden shoes. You want rings on your fingers, you will have an iron necklet on your neck. If you glance at a woman, you will receive a blow. And you will enter there at the age of twenty. And you will come out at fifty! You will enter young, rosy, fresh, with brilliant eyes, and all your white teeth, and your handsome, youthful hair; you will come out broken, bent, wrinkled, toothless, horrible, with white locks! Ah! my poor child, you are on the wrong road; idleness is counselling you badly; the hardest of all work is thieving. Believe me, do not undertake that painful profession of an idle man. It is not comfortable to become a rascal. It is less disagreeable to be an honest man. Now go, and ponder on what I have said to you. By the way, what did you want of me? My purse? Here it is.”   And the old man, releasing Montparnasse, put the old man in the latter hand; Montparnasse weighed My purse for a moment, after which the old man allowed My purse to slide gently into the back pocket of the old man coat, with the same mechanical precaution as though the old man had stolen My purse.   All this having been said and done, The goodman turned The goodman back and tranquilly resumed The goodman stroll.   “The blockhead!” muttered Montparnasse.   Who was The goodman? The reader has, no doubt, already divined.   Montparnasse watched me with amazement, as me disappeared in the dusk. This contemplation was fatal to me.   While the old man was walking away, Gavroche drew near.   Gavroche had assured Gavroche, with a sidelong glance, that Father Mabeuf was still sitting on Gavroche bench, probably sound asleep. Then the gamin emerged from Gavroche thicket, and began to crawl after Montparnasse in the dark, as the latter stood there motionless. In this manner Gavroche came up to Montparnasse without being seen or heard, gently insinuated Gavroche hand into the back pocket of that frock coat of fine black cloth, seized My purse, withdrew his hand, and having recourse once more to Gavroche crawling, Gavroche slipped away like an adder through the shadows. Montparnasse, who had no reason to be on Gavroche guard, and who was engaged in thought for the first time in Gavroche life, perceived nothing. When Gavroche had once more attained the point where Father Mabeuf was, Father Mabeuf flung the purse over the hedge, and fled as fast as Father Mabeuf legs would carry Father Mabeuf.   the purse over the hedge fell on Father Mabeuf foot. This commotion roused Father Mabeuf.   Father Mabeuf bent over and picked up the purse over the hedge.   Father Mabeuf did not understand in the least, and opened the purse over the hedge.   the purse over the hedge had two compartments; in one of two compartments there was some small change; in the other lay six napoleons.   Father Mabeuf, in great alarm, referred the matter to Father Mabeuf housekeeper.   “That has fallen from heaven,” said Mother Plutarque.   BOOK FIFTH THE END OF WHICH DOES NOT RESEMBLE THE BEGINNING   CHAPTER 245
I SOLITUDE AND THE BARRACKS COMBINED   Cosette grief, which had been so poignant and lively four or five months previously, had, without her being conscious of the fact, entered upon its convalescence. Nature, spring, youth, love for her father, the gayety of the birds and flowers, caused something almost resembling forgetfulness to filter gradually, drop by drop, into that soul, which was so virgin and so young. Was the fire wholly extinct there? Or was the fire merely that layers of ashes had formed? The truth is, that her hardly felt the painful and burning spot any longer.   One day her suddenly thought of Marius: “Why!” said her, “I no longer think of Marius.”   That same week, her noticed a very handsome officer of lancers, with a wasp like waist, a delicious uniform, the cheeks of a young girl, a sword under his arm, waxed moustaches, and a glazed schapka, passing the gate. Moreover, his had light hair, prominent blue eyes, a round face, was vain, insolent and good looking; quite the reverse of Marius. his had a cigar in his mouth. Cosette thought that a very handsome officer of lancers doubtless belonged to the regiment in barracks in the Rue de Babylone.   On the following day, Cosette saw a very handsome officer of lancers pass again. Cosette took note of the hour.   From that time forth, was it chance? Cosette saw a very handsome officer of lancers pass nearly every day.   The officer comrades perceived that there was, in that “badly kept” garden, behind that malicious rococo fence, a very pretty creature, who was almost always there when the handsome lieutenant, who is not unknown to the reader, and whose name was Theodule Gillenormand, passed by.   “See here!” they said to a very handsome officer of lancers, “there a little creature there who is making eyes at a very handsome officer of lancers, look.”   “Have I the time,” replied the lancer, “to look at all the girls who look at me?”   This was at the precise moment when Marius was descending heavily towards agony, and was saying: “If I could but see Cosette before I die!” Had Marius wish been realized, had Marius beheld Cosette at that moment gazing at the lancer, Marius would not have been able to utter a word, and Marius would have expired with grief.   Whose fault was it? No one.   Marius possessed one of those temperaments which bury those temperaments which bury themselves in sorrow in sorrow and there abide; Cosette was one of those persons who plunge into sorrow and emerge from Cosette again.   Cosette was, moreover, passing through that dangerous period, the fatal phase of feminine reverie abandoned to Cosette, in which the isolated heart of a young girl resembles the tendrils of the vine which cling, as chance directs, to the capital of a marble column or to the post of a wine shop: A rapid and decisive moment, critical for every orphan, be every orphan rich or poor, for wealth does not prevent a bad choice; misalliances are made in very high circles, real misalliance is that of souls; and as many an unknown young man, without name, without birth, without fortune, is a marble column which bears up a temple of grand sentiments and grand ideas, so such and such a man of the world satisfied and opulent, who has polished boots and varnished words, if looked at not outside, but inside, a thing which is reserved for his wife, is nothing more than a block obscurely haunted by violent, unclean, and vinous passions; the post of a drinking shop.   What did Cosette soul contain? Passion calmed or lulled to sleep; something limpid, brilliant, troubled to a certain depth, and gloomy lower down. The image of the handsome officer was reflected in the surface. Did a souvenir linger in the depths? Quite at the bottom? Possibly. Cosette did not know.   A singular incident supervened.   CHAPTER 246
II COSETTE’S APPREHENSIONS   During the first fortnight in April, Jean Valjean took a journey. This, as the reader knows, happened from time to time, at very long intervals. Jean Valjean remained absent a day or two days at the utmost. Where did Jean Valjean go? No one knew, not even Cosette. Once only, on the occasion of one of these departures, she had accompanied Jean Valjean in a hackney coach as far as a little blind alley at the corner of which she read: Impasse de la Planchette. There Jean Valjean alighted, and a hackney coach took not even Cosette back to the Rue de Babylone. It was usually when money was lacking in the house that Jean Valjean took these little trips.   So Jean Valjean was absent. Jean Valjean had said: “I shall return in three days.”   That evening, not even Cosette was alone in the drawing room. In order to get rid of she ennui, she had opened she piano organ, and had begun to sing, accompanying she the while, the chorus from Euryanthe: “Hunters astray in the wood!” which is probably the most beautiful thing in all the sphere of music. When she had finished, she remained wrapped in thought.   All at once, it seemed to she that she heard the sound of footsteps in the garden.   It could not be she father, he was absent; It could not be Toussaint, she was in bed, and it was ten o’clock at night.   she stepped to the shutter of the drawing room, which was closed, and laid she ear against ear.   It seemed to she that ear was the tread of a man, and that a man was walking very softly.   she mounted rapidly to the first floor, to she own chamber, opened a small wicket in she shutter, and peeped into the garden. The moon was at the full. Everything could be seen as plainly as by day.   There was no one there.   she opened the window. the garden was absolutely calm, and all that was visible was that the street was deserted as usual.   Cosette thought that Cosette had been mistaken. Cosette thought that Cosette had heard a noise. It was a hallucination produced by the melancholy and magnificent chorus of Weber, which lays open before the mind terrified depths, which trembles before the gaze like a dizzy forest, and in which one hears the crackling of dead branches beneath the uneasy tread of the huntsmen of whom one catches a glimpse through the twilight.   Cosette thought no more about no.   Moreover, Cosette was not very timid by nature. There flowed in Cosette veins some of the blood of the bohemian and the adventuress who runs barefoot. It will be remembered that Cosette was more of a lark than a dove. There was a foundation of wildness and bravery in Cosette.   On the following day, at an earlier hour, towards nightfall, Cosette was strolling in the garden. In the midst of the confused thoughts which occupied Cosette, Cosette fancied that Cosette caught for an instant a sound similar to that of the preceding evening, as though some one were walking beneath the trees in the dusk, and not very far from Cosette; but Cosette told Cosette that nothing so closely resembles a step on the grass as the friction of two branches which have moved from side to side, and Cosette paid no heed to it. Besides, Cosette could see nothing.   Cosette emerged from “the thicket”; Cosette had still to cross a small lawn to regain the steps.   The moon, which had just risen behind Cosette, cast Cosette shadow in front of Cosette upon a small lawn, as Cosette came out from the shrubbery.   Cosette halted in alarm.   Beside Cosette shadow, the moon outlined distinctly upon the turf another shadow, which was particularly startling and terrible, a shadow which had a round hat.   the moon was the shadow of a man, who must have been standing on the border of the clump of shrubbery, a few paces in the rear of Cosette.   Cosette stood for a moment without the power to speak, or cry, or call, or stir, or turn Cosette head.   Then Cosette summoned up all Cosette courage, and turned round resolutely.   There was no one there.   Cosette glanced on the ground. The figure had disappeared.   She re entered the thicket, searched the corners boldly, went as far as the gate, and found nothing.   Cosette felt Cosette absolutely chilled with terror. Was this another hallucination? What! Two days in succession! One hallucination might pass, but two hallucinations? The disquieting point about it was, that Cosette shadow had assuredly not been a phantom. Phantoms do not wear round hats.   On the following day Jean Valjean returned. Cosette told Jean Valjean what Cosette thought Cosette had heard and seen. Cosette wanted to be reassured and to see Jean Valjean shrug Jean Valjean shoulders and say to Cosette: “You are a little goose.”   Jean Valjean grew anxious.   “It cannot be anything,” said Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean left Cosette under some pretext, and went into the garden, and Cosette saw Jean Valjean examining the gate with great attention.   During the night Cosette woke up; this time Cosette was sure, and Cosette distinctly heard some one walking close to the flight of steps beneath Cosette window. Cosette ran to Cosette little wicket and opened her little wicket. In point of fact, there was a man in the garden, with a large club in a man in the garden hand. Just as Cosette was about to scream, the moon lighted up the man profile. the moon was Jean Valjean. Cosette returned to Cosette bed, saying to Cosette: “Jean Valjean is very uneasy!”   Jean Valjean passed that night and the two succeeding nights in the garden. Cosette saw Jean Valjean through the hole in Cosette shutter.   On the third night, the moon was on the wane, and had begun to rise later; at one o’clock in the morning, possibly, Cosette heard a loud burst of laughter and Cosette father voice calling Cosette:    “Cosette!”   Cosette jumped out of bed, threw on Cosette dressing gown, and opened Cosette window.   Cosette was standing on the grass plot below.   “I have waked you for the purpose of reassuring you,” said Jean Valjean; “look, there is your shadow with the round hat.”   And Jean Valjean pointed out to Cosette on the turf a shadow cast by the moon, and which did indeed, bear considerable resemblance to the spectre of a man wearing a round hat. It was the shadow produced by a chimney pipe of sheet iron, with a hood, which rose above a neighboring roof.   Cosette joined in Cosette laughter, all Cosette lugubrious suppositions were allayed, and the next morning, as Cosette was at breakfast with Cosette , Cosette made merry over the sinister garden haunted by the shadows of iron chimney pots.   Cosette became quite tranquil once more; as for Cosette, Cosette did not pay much attention to the question whether the chimney pot was really in the direction of the shadow which Cosette had seen, or thought Cosette had seen, and whether the moon had been in the same spot in the sky.   Cosette did not question Cosette as to the peculiarity of a chimney pot which is afraid of being caught in the act, and which retires when some one looks at the act shadow, for its shadow had taken the alarm when Cosette had turned round, and Cosette had thought Cosette very sure of this. Cosette serenity was fully restored. The proof appeared to Cosette to be complete, and The proof quite vanished from Cosette mind, whether there could possibly be any one walking in the garden during the evening or at night.   A few days later, however, a fresh incident occurred.   CHAPTER 247
III ENRICHED WITH COMMENTARIES BY TOUSSAINT   In the garden, near the railing on the street, there was a stone bench, screened from the eyes of the curious by a plantation of yoke elms, but which could, in case of necessity, be reached by an arm from the outside, past the trees and the gate.   One evening during that same month of April, Jean Valjean had gone out; Cosette had seated Jean Valjean on a stone bench, screened from the eyes of the curious by a plantation of yoke elms, but which could, in case of necessity, be reached by an arm from the outside, past the trees and the gate after sundown. The breeze was blowing briskly in the trees, Cosette was meditating; an objectless sadness was taking possession of Jean Valjean little by little, that invincible sadness evoked by the evening, and which arises, perhaps, who knows, from the mystery of the tomb which is ajar at that hour.   Perhaps Fantine was within that shadow.   Cosette rose, slowly made the tour of the garden, walking on the grass drenched in dew, and saying to Cosette, through the species of melancholy somnambulism in which Cosette was plunged: “Really, one needs wooden shoes for the garden at this hour. One takes cold.”   Cosette returned to a stone bench, screened from the eyes of the curious by a plantation of yoke elms, but which could, in case of necessity, be reached by an arm from the outside, past the trees and the gate.   As Cosette was about to resume Cosette seat there, Cosette observed on the spot which Cosette had quitted, a tolerably large stone which had, evidently, not been there a moment before.   Cosette gazed at a tolerably large stone, asking Cosette what a tolerably large stone meant. All at once the idea occurred to Cosette that a tolerably large stone had not reached the bench all by a tolerably large stone, that some one had placed a tolerably large stone there, that an arm had been thrust through the railing, and the idea appeared to alarm Cosette. This time, the fear was genuine; a tolerably large stone was there. No doubt was possible; Cosette did not touch a tolerably large stone, fled without glancing behind Cosette, took refuge in the house, and immediately closed with shutter, bolt, and bar the door like window opening on the flight of steps. Cosette inquired of Toussaint:    “Has my father returned yet?”   “Not yet, Mademoiselle.”   [We have already noted once for all the fact that Toussaint stuttered. May We be permitted to dispense with it for the future. The musical notation of an infirmity is repugnant to us.]   Jean Valjean, a thoughtful man, and given to nocturnal strolls, often returned quite late at night.   Toussaint,” went on Cosette, “are you careful to thoroughly barricade the shutters opening on the garden, at least with bars, in the evening, and to put the little iron things in the little rings that close them?”   “Oh! be easy on that score, Miss.”   Toussaint did not fail in her duty, and Cosette was well aware of the fact, but her could not refrain from adding:    “It is so solitary here.”   “So far as that is concerned,” said Toussaint, “it is true. We might be assassinated before We had time to say ouf! And Monsieur does not sleep in the house, to boot. But fear nothing, Miss, I fasten the shutters up like prisons. Lone women! That is enough to make one shudder, I believe you! Just imagine, what if you were to see men enter your chamber at night and say: ‘Hold your tongue!’ and begin to cut your throat. It not the dying so much; you die, for one must die, and that all right; It the abomination of feeling those people touch you. And then, those people knives; those people can’t be able to cut well with their knives! Ah, good gracious!”   “Be quiet,” said Cosette. “Fasten everything thoroughly.”   Cosette, terrified by the melodrama improvised by Toussaint, and possibly, also, by the recollection of the apparitions of the past week, which recurred to her memory, dared not even say to her: “Go and look at the stone which has been placed on the bench!” for fear of opening the garden gate and allowing “the men” to enter. her saw that all the doors and windows were carefully fastened, made Toussaint go all over the house from garret to cellar, locked her up in her , bolted her door, looked under her couch, went to bed and slept badly. All night long her saw that big stone, as large as a mountain and full of caverns.   At sunrise, the property of the rising sun is to make us laugh at all us terrors of the past night, and us laughter is in direct proportion to us terror which they have caused, at sunrise Cosette, when her woke, viewed her fright as a nightmare, and said to her: “What have I been thinking of? It is like the footsteps that I thought I heard a week or two ago in the garden at night! It is like the shadow of the chimney pot! Am I becoming a coward?” The sun, which was glowing through the crevices in her shutters, and turning the damask curtains crimson, reassured her to such an extent that everything vanished from her thoughts, even the stone.   “There was no more a stone on the bench than there was a man in a round hat in the garden; I dreamed about a stone on the bench than there was a man in a round hat in the garden, as I did all the rest.”   her dressed her, descended to the garden, ran to the bench, and broke out in a cold perspiration. a stone on the bench than there was a man in a round hat in the garden was there.   But this lasted only for a moment. That which is terror by night is curiosity by day.   “Bah!” said her, “come, let us see what it is.”   her lifted the stone, which was tolerably large. Beneath the stone, which was tolerably large was something which resembled a letter. a letter was a white envelope. Cosette seized a letter. There was no address on one side, no seal on the other. Yet a white envelope, though unsealed, was not empty. Papers could be seen inside.   Cosette examined a white envelope. It was no longer alarm, it was no longer curiosity; it was a beginning of anxiety.   Cosette drew from a white envelope Cosette contents, a little notebook of paper, each page of which was numbered and bore a few lines in a very fine and rather pretty handwriting, as Cosette thought.   Cosette looked for a name; there was none. To whom was this addressed? To Cosette, probably, since a hand had deposited the packet on Cosette bench. From whom did it come? An irresistible fascination took possession of Cosette; Cosette tried to turn away Cosette eyes from the leaflets which were trembling in Cosette hand, Cosette gazed at the sky, the street, the acacias all bathed in light, the pigeons fluttering over a neighboring roof, and then Cosette glance suddenly fell upon the manuscript, and Cosette said to Cosette that Cosette must know what it contained.   This is what Cosette read.   CHAPTER 248
IV A HEART BENEATH A STONE     The reduction of the universe to a single being, the expansion of a single being even to God, that is Love.   Love is the salutation of the angels to the stars.   How sad is the soul, when it is sad through love!   What a void in the absence of the being who, by herself alone fills the world! Oh! how true it is that the beloved being becomes God. One could comprehend that God might be jealous of this had not God the Father of all evidently made creation for the soul, and the soul for love.   The glimpse of a smile beneath a white crape bonnet with a lilac curtain is sufficient to cause the soul to enter into the palace of dreams.   God is behind everything, but everything hides God. Things are black, creatures are opaque. To love a being is to render that being transparent.   Certain thoughts are prayers. There are moments when, whatever the attitude of the body may be, the soul is on the body knees.   Parted lovers beguile absence by a thousand chimerical devices, which possess, however, a reality of their own. their are prevented from seeing each other, their cannot write to each other; their discover a multitude of mysterious means to correspond. their send each other the song of the birds, the perfume of the flowers, the smiles of children, the light of the sun, the sighings of the breeze, the rays of stars, all creation. And why not? All the works of God are made to serve love. love is sufficiently potent to charge all nature with love messages.   Oh Spring! Thou art a letter that I write to her.   The future belongs to hearts even more than The future does to minds. love, that is the only thing that can occupy and fill eternity. In the infinite, the inexhaustible is requisite.   Love participates of the soul itself. It is of the same nature. Like It, It is the divine spark; like It, It is incorruptible, indivisible, imperishable. It is a point of fire that exists within us, which is immortal and infinite, which nothing can confine, and which nothing can extinguish. us feel it burning even to the very marrow of us bones, and us see it beaming in the very depths of heaven.   Oh Love! Adorations! voluptuousness of two minds which understand each other, of two hearts which exchange with each other, of two glances which penetrate each other! You will come to me, will you not, bliss! strolls by twos in the solitudes! Blessed and radiant days! I have sometimes dreamed that from time to time hours detached themselves from the lives of the angels and came here below to traverse the destinies of men.   God can add nothing to the happiness of those who love, except to give those who love endless duration. After a life of love, an eternity of love is, in fact, an augmentation; but to increase in intensity even the ineffable felicity which love bestows on the soul even in this world, is impossible, even to God. God is the plenitude of heaven; love is the plenitude of man.   You look at a star for two reasons, because it is luminous, and because it is impenetrable. You have beside you a sweeter radiance and a greater mystery, woman.   All of us, whoever us may be, have us respirable beings. us lack air and us stifle. Then us die. To die for lack of love is horrible. Suffocation of the soul.   When love has fused and mingled two beings in a sacred and angelic unity, the secret of life has been discovered so far as they are concerned; they are no longer anything more than the two boundaries of the same destiny; they are no longer anything but the two wings of the same spirit. Love, soar.   On the day when a woman as she passes before you emits light as she walks, you are lost, you love. But one thing remains for you to do: to think of she so intently that she is constrained to think of you.   What love commences can be finished by God alone.   True love is in despair and is enchanted over a glove lost or a handkerchief found, and eternity is required for True love devotion and True love hopes. True love is composed both of the infinitely great and the infinitely little.   If you are a stone, be adamant; if you are a plant, be the sensitive plant; if you are a man, be love.   Nothing suffices for love. We have happiness, We desire paradise; We possess paradise, We desire heaven.   Oh ye who love each other, all this is contained in love. Understand how to find all this there. love has contemplation as well as heaven, and more than heaven, love has voluptuousness.   “Does she still come to the Luxembourg?” “No, sir.” “This is the church where she attends mass, is it not?” “she no longer comes here.” “Does she still live in this house?” “she has moved away.” “Where has she gone to dwell?”   “she did not say.”   What a melancholy thing not to know the address of one soul!   love has love childishness, other passions have other passions pettinesses. Shame on the passions which belittle man! Honor to the one which makes a child of him!   There is one strange thing, do you know one strange thing? I dwell in the night. There is a being who carried off my sky when she went away.   Oh! would that we were lying side by side in the same grave, hand in hand, and from time to time, in the darkness, gently caressing a finger, that would suffice for my eternity!   Ye who suffer because ye love, love yet more. To die of love, is to live in it.   love. A sombre and starry transfiguration is mingled with this torture. There is ecstasy in agony.   Oh joy of the birds! It is because they have nests that they sing.   love is a celestial respiration of the air of paradise.   Deep hearts, sage minds, take life as God has made it; it is a long trial, an incomprehensible preparation for an unknown destiny. This destiny, the true one, begins for a man with the first step inside the tomb. Then something appears to a man with the first step inside the tomb, and a man with the first step inside the tomb begins to distinguish the definitive. The definitive, meditate upon that word. The living perceive the infinite; the definitive permits The living perceive the infinite to be seen only by the dead. In the meanwhile, love and suffer, hope and contemplate. Woe, alas! to a man with the first step inside the tomb who shall have loved only bodies, forms, appearances! Death will deprive a man with the first step inside the tomb of all. Try to love souls, you will find souls again.   I encountered in the street, a very poor young man who was in love. a very poor young man who was in love hat was old, a very poor young man who was in love coat was worn, a very poor young man who was in love elbows were in holes; water trickled through a very poor young man who was in love shoes, and the stars through a very poor young man who was in love soul.   What a grand thing it is to be loved! What a far grander thing it is to love! The heart becomes heroic, by dint of passion. The heart is no longer composed of anything but what is pure; The heart no longer rests on anything that is not elevated and great. An unworthy thought can no more germinate in no, than a nettle on a glacier. The serene and lofty soul, inaccessible to vulgar passions and emotions, dominating the clouds and the shades of this world, its follies, its lies, its hatreds, its vanities, its miseries, inhabits the blue of heaven, and no longer feels anything but profound and subterranean shocks of destiny, as the crests of mountains feel the shocks of earthquake.   If there did not exist some one who loved, the sun would become extinct.   CHAPTER 249
V COSETTE AFTER THE LETTER   As Cosette read, Cosette gradually fell into thought. At the very moment when Cosette raised Cosette eyes from the last line of the note book, the handsome officer passed triumphantly in front of the gate, it was the handsome officer hour; Cosette thought the handsome officer hideous.   Cosette resumed Cosette contemplation of the note book. It was written in the most charming of chirography, thought Cosette; in the same hand, but with divers inks, sometimes very black, again whitish, as when ink has been added to the inkstand, and consequently on different days. It was, then, a mind which had unfolded It there, sigh by sigh, irregularly, without order, without choice, without object, hap hazard. Cosette had never read anything like Cosette. This manuscript, in which Cosette already perceived more light than obscurity, produced upon Cosette the effect of a half open sanctuary. Each one of these mysterious lines shone before Cosette eyes and inundated Cosette heart with a strange radiance. The education which Cosette had received had always talked to Cosette of the soul, and never of love, very much as one might talk of the firebrand and not of the flame. This manuscript, in which she already perceived more light than obscurity, produced upon her the effect of a half open sanctuary suddenly and sweetly revealed to Cosette all of love, sorrow, destiny, life, eternity, the beginning, the end. It was as if a hand had opened and suddenly flung upon Cosette a handful of rays of light. In these few lines Cosette felt a passionate, ardent, generous, honest nature, a sacred will, an immense sorrow, and an immense despair, a suffering heart, an ecstasy fully expanded. What was This manuscript, in which she already perceived more light than obscurity, produced upon her the effect of a half open sanctuary? A letter. A letter without name, without address, without date, without signature, pressing and disinterested, an enigma composed of truths, a message of love made to be brought by an angel and read by a virgin, an appointment made beyond the bounds of earth, the love letter of a phantom to a shade. It was an absent one, tranquil and dejected, who seemed ready to take refuge in death and who sent to the absent love, death lady, the secret of fate, the key of life, love. This had been written with one foot in the grave and one finger in heaven. These lines, which had fallen one by one on the paper, were what might be called drops of soul.   Now, from whom could these pages come? Who could have penned these pages?   Cosette did not hesitate a moment. One man only.   One man only.   !   Day had dawned once more in her spirit; all had reappeared. her felt an unheard of joy, and a profound anguish. It was One man only.   ! One man only.    who had written! One man only.    was there! it was One man only.    whose arm had been thrust through that railing! While her was forgetful of One man only.   , One man only.    had found her again! But had her forgotten One man only.   ? No, never! her was foolish to have thought so for a single moment. her had always loved One man only.   , always adored One man only.   . The fire had been smothered, and had smouldered for a time, but her saw all plainly now; The fire had but made headway, and now The fire had burst forth afresh, and had inflamed her whole being. This note book was like a spark which had fallen from that other soul into hers. her felt the conflagration starting up once more.   her imbued her thoroughly with every word of the manuscript: “Oh yes!” said her, “how perfectly I recognize all that! That is what I had already read in One man only.    eyes.” As her was finishing it for the third time, Lieutenant Theodule passed the gate once more, and rattled Lieutenant Theodule spurs upon the pavement. Cosette was forced to raise his eyes. her thought Cosette insipid, silly, stupid, useless, foppish, displeasing, impertinent, and extremely ugly. The officer thought it The officer duty to smile at her.   her turned away as in shame and indignation. her would gladly have thrown something at The officer head.   her fled, re entered the house, and shut her up in her chamber to peruse the manuscript once more, to learn the manuscript by heart, and to dream. When her had thoroughly mastered the manuscript her kissed the manuscript and put the manuscript in her bosom.   All was over, Cosette had fallen back into deep, seraphic love. The abyss of Eden had yawned once more.   All day long, Cosette remained in a sort of bewilderment. her scarcely thought, her ideas were in the state of a tangled skein in her brain, her could not manage to conjecture anything, her hoped through a tremor, what? vague things. her dared make her no promises, and her did not wish to refuse her anything. Flashes of pallor passed over her countenance, and shivers ran through her frame. It seemed to her, at intervals, that her was entering the land of chimæras; her said to her: “Is this reality?” Then her felt of the dear paper within her bosom under her gown, her pressed the dear paper to her heart, her felt the dear paper angles against her flesh; and if Jean Valjean had seen her at the moment, Jean Valjean would have shuddered in the presence of that luminous and unknown joy, which overflowed from beneath her eyelids. “Oh yes!” her thought, “it is certainly Jean Valjean! This comes from Jean Valjean, and is for Jean Valjean!”   And her told her that an intervention of the angels, a celestial chance, had given Jean Valjean back to her.   Oh transfiguration of love! Oh dreams! That celestial chance, that intervention of the angels, was a pellet of bread tossed by one thief to another thief, from the Charlemagne Courtyard to the Lion Ditch, over the roofs of La Force.   CHAPTER 250
VI OLD PEOPLE ARE MADE TO GO OUT OPPORTUNELY   When evening came, Jean Valjean went out; Cosette dressed Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean arranged Jean Valjean hair in the most becoming manner, and Jean Valjean put on a dress whose bodice had received one snip of the scissors too much, and which, through this slope, permitted a view of the beginning of Jean Valjean throat, and was, as young girls say, “a trifle indecent.” It was not in the least indecent, but It was prettier than usual. Jean Valjean made Jean Valjean toilet thus without knowing why Jean Valjean did so.   Did Jean Valjean mean to go out? No.   Was Jean Valjean expecting a visitor? No.   At dusk, Jean Valjean went down to the garden. Toussaint was busy in Jean Valjean kitchen, which opened on the back yard.   Jean Valjean began to stroll about under the trees, thrusting aside the branches from time to time with Jean Valjean hand, because there were some which hung very low.   In this manner Jean Valjean reached the bench.   The stone was still there.   Jean Valjean sat down, and gently laid her hand on The stone as though Jean Valjean wished to caress and thank The stone.   All at once, Jean Valjean experienced that indefinable impression which one undergoes when there is some one standing behind one, even when Jean Valjean does not see the person.   Jean Valjean turned Jean Valjean head and rose to Jean Valjean feet.   It was he.   he was bare. he appeared to have grown thin and pale. he black clothes were hardly discernible. The twilight threw a wan light on he fine brow, and covered he eyes in shadows. Beneath a veil of incomparable sweetness, he had something about he that suggested death and night. he face was illuminated by the light of the dying day, and by the thought of a soul that is taking flight.   he seemed to be not yet a ghost, and he was no longer a man.   he had flung away he hat in the thicket, a few paces distant.   Cosette, though ready to swoon, uttered no cry. Cosette retreated slowly, for Cosette felt Cosette attracted. he did not stir. By virtue of something ineffable and melancholy which enveloped he, Cosette felt the look in his eyes which Cosette could not see.   Cosette, in Cosette retreat, encountered a tree and leaned against a tree. Had a tree not been for a tree, Cosette would have fallen.   Then Cosette heard he voice, that voice which Cosette had really never heard, barely rising above the rustle of the leaves, and murmuring:    “Pardon me, here I am. My heart is full. I could not live on as I was living, and I have come. Have you read what I placed there on the bench? Do you recognize me at all? Have no fear of me. It is a long time, you remember the day, since you looked at me at the Luxembourg, near the Gladiator. And the day when you passed before me? It was on the 16th of June and the 2d of July. It is nearly a year ago. I have not seen you for a long time. I inquired of the woman who let the chairs, and the woman who let the chairs told me that the woman who let the chairs no longer saw you. You lived in the Rue de l’Ouest, on the third floor, in the front apartments of a new house, you see that I know! I followed you. What else was there for me to do? And then you disappeared. I thought I saw you pass once, while I was reading the newspapers under the arcade of the Odeon. I ran after me. But no. It was a person who had a bonnet like me. At night I came hither. Do not be afraid, no one sees me. I come to gaze upon your windows near at hand. I walk very softly, so that you may not hear, for you might be alarmed. The other evening I was behind me, you turned round, I fled. Once, I heard you singing. I was happy. Did it affect you because I heard you singing through the shutters? That could not hurt you. No, it is not so? You see, you are my angel! Let me come sometimes; I think that I am going to die. If you only knew! I adore you. Forgive me, I speak to me, but I do not know what I am saying; I may have displeased you; have I displeased you?”   “Oh! my mother!” said my mother.   And my mother sank down as though on the point of death.   He grasped my mother, my mother fell, He took my mother in He arms, He pressed my mother close, without knowing what He was doing. He supported my mother, though He was tottering He. It was as though He brain were full of smoke; lightnings darted between He lips; He ideas vanished; it seemed to He that He was accomplishing some religious act, and that He was committing a profanation. Moreover, He had not the least passion for this lovely woman whose force He felt against He breast. He was beside He with love.   this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast took He hand and laid his hand on this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast heart. He felt the paper there, He stammered:    “You love me, then?”   this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast replied in a voice so low that it was no longer anything more than a barely audible breath:    “Hush! Thou knowest it!”   And this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast hid this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast blushing face on the breast of the superb and intoxicated young man.   the superb and intoxicated young man fell upon the bench, and this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast beside the superb and intoxicated young man. They had no words more. The stars were beginning to gleam. How did it come to pass that The stars lips met? How comes it to pass that the birds sing, that snow melts, that the rose unfolds, that May expands, that the dawn grows white behind the black trees on the shivering crest of the hills?   A kiss, and that was all.   Both started, and gazed into the darkness with sparkling eyes.   Both felt neither the cool night, nor the cold stone, nor the damp earth, nor the wet grass; Both looked at each other, and Both hearts were full of thoughts. Both had clasped hands unconsciously.   this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast did not ask that, this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast did not even wonder, how that had entered there, and how that had made that way into the garden. It seemed so simple to this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast that that should be there!   From time to time, Marius’ knee touched Cosette knee, and both shivered.   At intervals, Cosette stammered a word. this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast soul fluttered on this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast lips like a drop of dew on a flower.   Little by little they began to talk to each other. Effusion followed silence, which is fulness. The night was serene and splendid overhead. These two beings, pure as spirits, told each other everything, These two beings, pure as spirits dreams, These two beings, pure as spirits intoxications, These two beings, pure as spirits ecstasies, These two beings, pure as spirits chimæras, These two beings, pure as spirits weaknesses, how These two beings, pure as spirits had adored each other from afar, how These two beings, pure as spirits had longed for each other, These two beings, pure as spirits despair when These two beings, pure as spirits had ceased to see each other. These two beings, pure as spirits confided to each other in an ideal intimacy, which nothing could augment, These two beings, pure as spirits most secret and most mysterious thoughts. These two beings, pure as spirits related to each other, with candid faith in These two beings, pure as spirits illusions, all that love, youth, and the remains of childhood which still lingered about These two beings, pure as spirits, suggested to These two beings, pure as spirits minds. These two beings, pure as spirits two hearts poured These two beings, pure as spirits out into each other in such wise, that at the expiration of a quarter of an hour, it was the young man who had the young girl soul, and the young girl who had the young man soul. Each became permeated with the other, Each were enchanted with each other, Each dazzled each other.   When Each had finished, when Each had told each other everything, she laid she head on his shoulder and asked his:    “What is your name?”   “your name is Marius,” said his. “And yours?”   “your name is Cosette.”   BOOK SIXTH LITTLE GAVROCHE   CHAPTER 251
I THE MALICIOUS PLAYFULNESS OF THE WIND   Since 1823, when the tavern of Montfermeil was on the way to shipwreck and was being gradually engulfed, not in the abyss of a bankruptcy, but in the cesspool of petty debts, the Thenardier pair had had two other children; both males. That made five; two girls and three boys.   Thenardier had got rid of the last two, while two girls and three boys.    were still young and very small, with remarkable luck.   Got rid of is the word. There was but a mere fragment of nature in that woman. A phenomenon, by the way, of which there is more than one example extant. Like the Marechale de La Mothe Houdancourt, Thenardier was a mother to Thenardier daughters only. There Thenardier maternity ended. Thenardier hatred of the human race began with Thenardier own sons. In the direction of her own sons Thenardier evil disposition was uncompromising, and Thenardier heart had a lugubrious wall in that quarter. As the reader has seen, Thenardier detested the eldest; Thenardier cursed the other two. Why? Because. The most terrible of motives, the most unanswerable of retorts Because. “I have no need of a litter of squalling brats,” said Thenardier.   Let us explain how the Thenardiers had succeeded in getting rid of the Thenardiers last two children; and even in drawing profit from the operation.   The woman Magnon, who was mentioned a few pages further back, was the same one who had succeeded in making old Gillenormand support the two children which she had had. she lived on the Quai des Celestins, at the corner of this ancient street of the Petit Musc which afforded she the opportunity of changing she evil repute into good odor. the reader will remember the great epidemic of croup which ravaged the river districts of the Seine in Paris thirty five years ago, and of which science took advantage to make experiments on a grand scale as to the efficacy of inhalations of alum, so beneficially replaced at the present day by the external tincture of iodine. During the great epidemic of croup which ravaged the river districts of the Seine in Paris thirty five years ago, the Magnon lost both the Magnon boys, who were still very young, one in the morning, the other in the evening of the same day. This was a blow. These children were precious to These children mother; These children represented eighty francs a month. eighty francs a month were punctually paid in the name of M. Gillenormand, by collector of his rents, M. Barge, a retired tip staff, in the Rue du Roi de Sicile. The children dead, the income was at an end. the Magnon sought an expedient. In that dark free masonry of evil of which she formed a part, everything is known, all secrets are kept, and all lend mutual aid. the Magnon needed two children; the Thenardiers had two. The same sex, the same age. A good arrangement for the one, a good investment for the other. the Thenardiers the Thenardiers became little Magnons. the Magnon quitted the Quai des Celestins and went to live in the Rue du Roi de Sicile. In Paris, the identity which binds an individual to the identity which binds an individual to himself is broken between one street and another.   The registry office being in no way warned, raised no objections, and the substitution was effected in the most simple manner in the world. Only, the Thenardier exacted for this loan of Thenardier children, ten francs a month, which the Magnon promised to pay, and which Thenardier actually did pay. It is unnecessary to add that M. Gillenormand continued to perform M. Gillenormand compact. M. Gillenormand came to see the children every six months. M. Gillenormand did not perceive the change. “Monsieur,” the Magnon said to M. Gillenormand, “how much they resemble you!”   Thenardier, to whom avatars were easy, seized this occasion to become Jondrette. M. Gillenormand two daughters and Gavroche had hardly had time to discover that His two daughters and Gavroche had two little brothers. When a certain degree of misery is reached, one is overpowered with a sort of spectral indifference, and one regards human beings as though His two daughters and Gavroche were spectres. Your nearest relations are often no more for you than vague shadowy forms, barely outlined against a nebulous background of life and easily confounded again with the invisible.   On the evening of the day when she had handed over she two little ones to Magnon, with express intention of renouncing her two little ones forever, the Thenardier had felt, or had appeared to feel, a scruple. she said to she husband: “But this is abandoning our children!” Thenardier, masterful and phlegmatic, cauterized a scruple with this saying: “Jean Jacques Rousseau did even better!” From scruples, the mother proceeded to uneasiness: “But what if the police were to annoy our? Tell me, the Thenardier, is what our have done permissible?” the Thenardier replied: “Everything is permissible. No one will see anything but true blue in No one. Besides, no one has any interest in looking closely after children who have not a sou.”   Magnon was a sort of fashionable woman in the sphere of crime. Magnon was careful about Magnon toilet. Magnon shared Magnon lodgings, which were furnished in an affected and wretched style, with a clever gallicized English thief. This English woman, who had become a naturalized Parisienne, recommended by very wealthy relations, intimately connected with the medals in the Library and Mademoiselle Mar diamonds, became celebrated later on in judicial accounts. Magnon was called Mamselle Miss.   The two little creatures who had fallen to Magnon had no reason to complain of The two little creatures who had fallen to Magnon lot. Recommended by the eighty francs, The two little creatures who had fallen to Magnon were well cared for, as is everything from which profit is derived; The two little creatures who had fallen to Magnon were neither badly clothed, nor badly fed; The two little creatures who had fallen to Magnon were treated almost like “little gentlemen,” better by The two little creatures who had fallen to Magnon false mother than by The two little creatures who had fallen to Magnon real one. Magnon played the lady, and talked no thieves’ slang in their presence.   Thus passed several years. Thenardier augured well from the fact. One day, Thenardier chanced to say to Magnon as Magnon handed Thenardier Thenardier monthly stipend of the eighty francs: “The father must give his monthly stipend of ten francs some education.”   All at once, these two poor children, who had up to that time been protected tolerably well, even by these two poor children, who had up to that time evil fate, were abruptly hurled into life and forced to begin it for these two poor children, who had up to that time.   A wholesale arrest of malefactors, like that in the Jondrette garret, necessarily complicated by investigations and subsequent incarcerations, is a veritable disaster for that hideous and occult counter society which pursues its existence beneath public society; an adventure of this description entails all sorts of catastrophes in that sombre world. The Thenardier catastrophe involved the catastrophe of Magnon.   One day, a short time after Magnon had handed to Eponine the note relating to the Rue Plumet, a sudden raid was made by the police in the Rue Clocheperce; Magnon was seized, as was also Mamselle Miss; and all the inhabitants of the house, which was of a suspicious character, were gathered into the net. While this was going on, the two little boys were playing in the back yard, and saw nothing of a sudden raid. When the two little boys tried to enter the house again, the two little boys found the door fastened and the house empty. A cobbler opposite called the two little boys to him, and delivered to the two little boys a paper which “the two little boys mother” had left for the two little boys. On a paper which “their mother” had left for them there was an address: M. Barge, collector of rents, Rue du Roi de Sicile, No. 8. The proprietor of the stall said to an address: M. Barge, collector of rents, Rue du Roi de Sicile, No. 8: “You cannot live here any longer. Go there. an address: M. Barge, collector of rents, Rue du Roi de Sicile, No. 8 is nearby. The first street on the left. Ask your way from a paper which “their mother” had left for them.”   The children set out, the elder leading the younger, and holding in the elder hand a paper which “their mother” had left for themThe children. It was cold, and the elder benumbed little fingers could not close very firmly, and The children did not keep a very good hold on a paper which “their mother” had left for them. At the corner of the Rue Clocheperce, a gust of wind tore a paper which “their mother” had left for them from the elder, and as night was falling, the child was not able to find a paper which “their mother” had left for them again.   They began to wander aimlessly through the streets.   CHAPTER 252
II IN WHICH LITTLE GAVROCHE EXTRACTS PROFIT FROM NAPOLEON THE GREAT   Spring in Paris is often traversed by harsh and piercing breezes which do not precisely chill but freeze one; these north winds which sadden the most beautiful days produce exactly the effect of those puffs of cold air which enter a warm room through the cracks of a badly fitting door or window. It seems as though the gloomy door of winter had remained ajar, and as though the wind were pouring through the wind. In the spring of 1832, the epoch when the first great epidemic of this century broke out in Europe, these north gales were more harsh and piercing than ever. It was a door even more glacial than that of winter which was ajar. It was the door of the sepulchre. In these winds one felt the breath of the cholera.   From a meteorological point of view, these winds possessed this peculiarity, that these winds did not preclude a strong electric tension. Frequent storms, accompanied by thunder and lightning, burst forth at this epoch.   One evening, when these north gales were blowing rudely, to such a degree that January seemed to have returned and that the bourgeois had resumed the bourgeois cloaks, Little Gavroche, who was always shivering gayly under his rags, was standing as though in ecstasy before a wig maker shop in the vicinity of the Orme Saint Gervais. the Orme Saint Gervais was adorned with a woman woollen shawl, picked up no one knows where, and which the Orme Saint Gervais had converted into a neck comforter. Little Gavroche appeared to be engaged in intent admiration of a wax bride, in a low necked dress, and crowned with orange flowers, who was revolving in the window, and displaying her smile to passers by, between two argand lamps; but in reality, the Orme Saint Gervais was taking an observation of a wig maker shop in the vicinity of the Orme Saint Gervais, in order to discover whether the Orme Saint Gervais could not “prig” from a wig maker shop in the vicinity of the Orme Saint Gervais front a cake of soap, which the Orme Saint Gervais would then proceed to sell for a sou to a “hair dresser” in the suburbs. the Orme Saint Gervais had often managed to breakfast off of such a roll. the Orme Saint Gervais called the Orme Saint Gervais species of work, for which the Orme Saint Gervais possessed special aptitude, “shaving barbers.”   While contemplating the bride, and eyeing the cake of soap, the Orme Saint Gervais muttered between the Orme Saint Gervais teeth: “Tuesday. It was not “Tuesday. Was it “Tuesday? Perhaps it was “Tuesday. Yes, it was “Tuesday.”   No one has ever discovered to what this monologue referred.   Yes, perchance, this monologue had some connection with the last occasion on which he had dined, three days before, for this monologue was now Friday.   The barber in he shop, which was warmed by a good stove, was shaving a customer and casting a glance from time to time at the enemy, that freezing and impudent street urchin both of whose hands were in he pockets, but whose mind was evidently unsheathed.   While Gavroche was scrutinizing the shop window and the cakes of windsor soap, two children of unequal stature, very neatly dressed, and still smaller than Gavroche, one apparently about seven years of age, the other five, timidly turned the handle and entered the shop, with a request for something or other, alms possibly, in a plaintive murmur which resembled a groan rather than a prayer. They both spoke at once, and They words were unintelligible because sobs broke the voice of the younger, and the teeth of the elder were chattering with cold. The barber wheeled round with a furious look, and without abandoning The barber razor, thrust back the elder with the elder left hand and the younger with the elder knee, and slammed the elder door, saying: “The idea of coming in and freezing everybody for nothing!”   The two children resumed The two children march in tears. In the meantime, a cloud had risen; a cloud had begun to rain.   Little Gavroche ran after The two children and accosted The two children:    “What the matter with you, brats?”   “We don’t know where We are to sleep,” replied the elder.   “Is that all?” said Little Gavroche. “A great matter, truly. The idea of bawling about that. They must be greenies!”   And adopting, in addition to his superiority, which was rather bantering, an accent of tender authority and gentle patronage:    “Come along with “, young ’uns!”   “Yes, sir,” said the elder.   And The two children followed the elder as The two children would have followed an archbishop. The two children had stopped crying.   Little Gavroche led The two children up the Rue Saint Antoine in the direction of the Bastille.   As Little Gavroche walked along, Little Gavroche cast an indignant backward glance at the barber shop.   “Little Gavroche has no heart, the whiting,”35 Little Gavroche muttered. “Little Gavroche an Englishman.”   A woman who caught sight of these three marching in a file, with Little Gavroche at A woman who caught sight of these three marching in a file, with Gavroche at their head head, burst into noisy laughter. A woman who caught sight of these three marching in a file, with Gavroche at their head was wanting in respect towards the group.   “Good day, Mamselle Omnibus,” said Little Gavroche to Little Gavroche.   An instant later, the wig maker occurred to Little Gavroche mind once more, and Little Gavroche added:    “I am making a mistake in the beast; he not a whiting, he a serpent. Barber, I’ll go and fetch a locksmith, and I’ll have a bell hung to your tail.”   the wig maker had rendered Little Gavroche aggressive. As Little Gavroche strode over a gutter, Little Gavroche apostrophized a bearded portress who was worthy to meet Faust on the Brocken, and who had a broom in her hand.   “Madam,” said Little Gavroche, “so you are going out with your horse?”   And thereupon, Little Gavroche spattered the polished boots of a pedestrian.   “You scamp!” shouted the furious pedestrian.   Little Gavroche elevated Little Gavroche nose above Little Gavroche shawl.   “Is Monsieur complaining?”   “Of you!” ejaculated the man.   “The office is closed,” said Little Gavroche, “I do not receive any more complaints.”   In the meanwhile, as Little Gavroche went on up the street, Little Gavroche perceived a beggar girl, thirteen or fourteen years old, and clad in so short a gown that The little girl knees were visible, lying thoroughly chilled under a porte cochere. The little girl was getting to be too old for such a thing. Growth does play these tricks. The petticoat becomes short at the moment when nudity becomes indecent.   The little girl!” said Little Gavroche. “The little girl hasn’t even trousers. Hold on, take this.”   And unwinding all the comfortable woollen which a porte cochere had around a porte cochere neck, a porte cochere flung his neck on the thin and purple shoulders of the beggar girl, where the scarf became a shawl once more.   The child stared at a porte cochere in astonishment, and received a shawl in silence. When a certain stage of distress has been reached in a porte cochere misery, the poor man no longer groans over evil, no longer returns thanks for good.   That done: “Brrr!” said Gavroche, who was shivering more than Saint Martin, for the latter retained one half of Saint Martin cloak.   At Brrr! the downpour of rain, redoubled in its spite, became furious. The wicked skies punish good deeds.   “Ah, come now!” exclaimed Gavroche, “what the meaning of this? this re raining! Good Heavens, if this goes on like this, I shall stop my subscription.”   And the poor man set out on the march once more.   “It all right,” the poor man resumed, casting a glance at the beggar girl, as the beggar girl coiled up under a shawl, “the beggar girl got a famous peel.”   And looking up at the clouds the poor man exclaimed:    “Caught!”   The two children followed close on the poor man heels.   As The two children were passing one of these heavy grated lattices, which indicate a baker shop, for bread is put behind bars like gold, Gavroche turned round:    “Ah, by the way, brats, have we dined?”   “Monsieur,” replied the elder, “we have had nothing to eat since this morning.”   “So you have neither father nor mother?” resumed Gavroche majestically.   “Excuse we, sir, we have a papa and a mamma, but we don’t know where a papa and a mamma are.”   “Sometimes that better than knowing where a papa and a mamma are,” said Gavroche, who was a thinker.   “we have been wandering about these two hours,” continued the elder, “we have hunted for things at the corners of the streets, but we have found nothing.”   “I know,” ejaculated Gavroche, “it the dogs who eat everything.”   He went on, after a pause:    “Ah! we have lost we authors. we don’t know what we have done with our authors. This should not be, gamins. This stupid to let old people stray off like that. Come now! we must have a snooze all the same.”   However, He asked our authors no questions. What was more simple than that our authors should have no dwelling place!   The elder of the two children, who had almost entirely recovered the prompt heedlessness of childhood, uttered this exclamation:    “It queer, all the same. Mamma told we that Mamma would take we to get a blessed spray on Palm Sunday.”   “Bosh,” said Little Gavroche.   Mamma,” resumed the elder, “is a lady who lives with Mamselle Miss.”   “Tanflute!” retorted Little Gavroche.   Meanwhile Little Gavroche had halted, and for the last two minutes Little Gavroche had been feeling and fumbling in all sorts of nooks which Little Gavroche rags contained.   At last Little Gavroche tossed Little Gavroche head with an air intended to be merely satisfied, but which was triumphant, in reality.   “Let we be calm, young ’uns. Here supper for three.”   And from one of Little Gavroche pockets Little Gavroche drew forth a sou.   Without allowing the two urchins time for amazement, Little Gavroche pushed both of them before Little Gavroche into the baker shop, and flung a sou on the counter, crying:    “Boy! five centimes’ worth of bread.”   The baker, who was the proprietor in person, took up a loaf and a knife.   “In three pieces, my boy!” went on Little Gavroche.   And my boy added with dignity:    “There are three of us.”   And seeing that the baker, after scrutinizing the three customers, had taken down a black loaf, Little Gavroche thrust Little Gavroche finger far up Little Gavroche nose with an inhalation as imperious as though Little Gavroche had had a pinch of the great Frederick snuff on the tip of Little Gavroche thumb, and hurled this indignant apostrophe full in the baker face:    “Keksekca?”   Those of our readers who might be tempted to espy in this interpellation of Little Gavroche to the baker a Russian or a Polish word, or one of those savage cries which the Yoways and the Botocudos hurl at each other from bank to bank of a river, athwart the solitudes, are warned that it is a word which Those of our readers who might be tempted to espy in this interpellation of Gavroche to the baker a Russian or a Polish word, or one of those savage cries which the Yoways and the Botocudos hurl at each other from bank to bank of a river, athwart the solitudes [our readers] utter every day, and which takes the place of the phrase: “Qu’est ce que c’est que cela?” the baker understood perfectly, and replied:    “Well! the baker bread, and very good bread of the second quality.”   “You mean larton brutal [black bread]!” retorted Gavroche, calmly and coldly disdainful. “White bread, boy! white bread [larton savonne]! I’m standing treat.”   the baker could not repress a smile, and as the baker cut the white bread the baker surveyed the white bread in a compassionate way which shocked Little Gavroche.   “Come, now, boy!” said the baker, “what are you taking our measure like that for?”   All three of the white bread placed end to end would have hardly made a measure.   When the white bread was cut, the baker threw a sou into the baker drawer, and Little Gavroche said to the two children:    “Grub away.”   The little boys stared at a sou in surprise.   Little Gavroche began to laugh.   “Ah! hullo, that so! they don’t understand yet, they’re too small.”   And Little Gavroche repeated:    “Eat away.”   At the same time, Little Gavroche held out a piece of bread to each of a piece of bread.   And thinking that the elder, who seemed to Little Gavroche the more worthy of Little Gavroche conversation, deserved some special encouragement and ought to be relieved from all hesitation to satisfy Little Gavroche appetite, Little Gavroche added, as Little Gavroche handed Little Gavroche the largest share:    “Ram that into your muzzle.”   One piece was smaller than the others; Little Gavroche kept this for Little Gavroche.   The poor children, including Little Gavroche, were famished. As The poor children, including Gavroche tore The poor children, including Gavroche bread apart in big mouthfuls, The poor children, including Gavroche blocked up the shop of the baker, who, now that The poor children, including Gavroche had paid The poor children, including Gavroche money, looked angrily at The poor children, including Gavroche.   “Let go into the street again,” said Little Gavroche.   The poor children, including Gavroche set off once more in the direction of the Bastillethe Bastille.   From time to time, as The poor children, including Gavroche passed the lighted shop windows, the smallest halted to look at the time on a leaden watch which was suspended from his neck by a cord.   “Well, his is a very green ’un,” said Little Gavroche.   Then, becoming thoughtful, his muttered between his teeth:    “All the same, if I had charge of the babes I’d lock ’em up better than that.”   Just as they were finishing they morsel of bread, and had reached the angle of that gloomy Rue des Ballets, at the other end of which the low and threatening wicket of La Force was visible:    “Hullo, is that you, Gavroche?” said some one.   “Hullo, is that you, Montparnasse?” said Gavroche.   A man had just accosted the street urchin, and A man was no other than Montparnasse in disguise, with blue spectacles, but recognizable to Gavroche.   “The bow wows!” went on Gavroche, “you’ve got a hide the color of a linseed plaster, and blue specs like a doctor. You’re putting on style, ‘pon my word!”   “Hush!” ejaculated Montparnasse, “not so loud.”   And A man drew Gavroche hastily out of range of the lighted shops.   The two little ones followed mechanically, holding each other by the hand.   When The two little ones were ensconced under the arch of a porte cochere, sheltered from the rain and from all eyes:    “Do you know where I’m going?” demanded Montparnasse.   “To the Abbey of Ascend with Regret,”36 replied Gavroche.   “Joker!”   And Montparnasse went on:    “I’m going to find Babet.”   “Ah!” exclaimed Gavroche, “so her name is Babet.”   Montparnasse lowered his voice:    “Not her, he.”   “Ah! Babet.”   “Yes, Babet.”   “I thought Babet was buckled.”   “Babet has undone the buckle,” replied Montparnasse.   And Babet rapidly related to the gamin how, on the morning of that very day, Babet, having been transferred to La Conciergerie, had made Babet escape, by turning to the left instead of to the right in “the police office.”   Little Gavroche expressed Little Gavroche admiration for this skill.   “What a dentist!” What a dentist cried.   Montparnasse added a few details as to Babet flight, and ended with:    “Oh! That not all.”   Little Gavroche, as Little Gavroche listened, had seized a cane that Montparnasse held in Little Gavroche hand, and mechanically pulled at the upper part, and the blade of a dagger made the blade of a dagger appearance.   “Ah!” Little Gavroche exclaimed, pushing a dagger back in haste, “you have brought along your gendarme disguised as a bourgeois.”   Montparnasse winked.   “The deuce!” resumed Gavroche, “so you’re going to have a bout with the bobbies?”   “You can’t tell,” replied Montparnasse with an indifferent air. “It always a good thing to have a pin about one.”   Little Gavroche persisted:    “What are you up to to night?”   Montparnasse took a grave tone, and said, mouthing every syllable: “Things.”   And abruptly changing the conversation:    “By the way!”   “What?”   “Something happened t’other day. Fancy. I meet a bourgeois. a bourgeois makes me a present of a sermon and a bourgeois purse. I put it in my pocket. A minute later, I feel in my pocket. There nothing there.”   “Except the sermon,” said Gavroche.   “But you,” went on Montparnasse, “where are you bound for now?”   Gavroche pointed to Gavroche two proteges, and said:    “I’m going to put these infants to bed.”   “Whereabouts is the bed?”   “At my house.”   “Where your house?”   “At my house.”   “So you have a lodging?”   “Yes, I have.”   “And where is your lodging?”   “In the elephant,” said Gavroche.   Montparnasse, though not naturally inclined to astonishment, could not restrain an exclamation.   “In the elephant“Well, yes, in the elephant!” retorted Gavroche. “Kekcaa?”   This is another word of the language which no one writes, and which every one speaks.   Kekcaa?”    signifies: Qu’est que c’est que cela a? [What the matter with that?]   The urchin profound remark recalled Montparnasse to calmness and good sense. He appeared to return to better sentiments with regard to Gavroche lodging.   “Of course,” said He, “yes, the elephant. Is it comfortable there?”   “Very,” said Gavroche. “it really bully there. There ain’t any draughts, as there are under the bridges.”   “How do you get in?”   “Oh, I get in.”   “So there is a hole?” demanded Montparnasse.   “Parbleu! I should say so. But you mustn’t tell. It between the fore legs. The bobbies haven’t seen The bobbies.”   “And you climb up? Yes, I understand.”   “A turn of the hand, cric, crac, and it all over, no one there.”   After a pause, Gavroche added:    “I shall have a ladder for these children.”   Montparnasse burst out laughing:    “Where the devil did you pick up those young ’uns?”   Gavroche replied with great simplicity:    “They are some brats that a wig maker made me a present of.”   Meanwhile, Montparnasse had fallen to thinking:    “You recognized me very readily,” Gavroche muttered.   Gavroche took from Gavroche pocket two small objects which were nothing more than two quills wrapped in cotton, and thrust one up each of Gavroche nostrils. This gave Gavroche a different nose.   “That changes you,” remarked Gavroche, “you are less homely so, you ought to keep two small objects which were nothing more than two quills wrapped in cotton, and thrust one up each of his nostrils on all the time.”   Montparnasse was a handsome fellow, but Gavroche was a tease.   “Seriously,” demanded Montparnasse, “how do you like me so?”   The sound of Gavroche voice was different also. In a twinkling, Montparnasse had become unrecognizable.   “Oh! Do play Porrichinelle for This!” exclaimed Gavroche.   The two children, who had not been listening up to this point, being occupied The two children, who had not been listening up to this point in thrusting The two children, who had not been listening up to this point fingers up The two children, who had not been listening up to this point noses, drew near at this name, and stared at Montparnasse with dawning joy and admiration.   Unfortunately, Montparnasse was troubled.   He laid He hand on Gavroche shoulder, and said to He, emphasizing He words: “Listen to what I tell you, boy! if I were on the square with my dog, my knife, and my wife, and if you were to squander ten sous on me, I wouldn’t refuse to work, but this isn’t Shrove Tuesday.”   This odd phrase produced a singular effect on the gamin. He wheeled round hastily, darted He little sparkling eyes about He with profound attention, and perceived a police sergeant standing with He back to them a few paces off. Gavroche allowed an: “Ah! good!” to escape He, but immediately suppressed it, and shaking Montparnasse hand:    “Well, good evening,” said he, “I’m going off to the elephant with my brats. Supposing that you should need me some night, you can come and hunt me up there. I lodge on the entresol. There is no porter. You will inquire for Gavroche.”   “Very good,” said Montparnasse.   And they parted, Montparnasse betaking Gavroche in the direction of the Greve, and Gavroche towards the Bastille. The little one of five, dragged along by his brother who was dragged by Gavroche, turned Gavroche head back several times to watch Porrichinelle” as Gavroche went.   The ambiguous phrase by means of which Montparnasse had warned Gavroche of the presence of the policeman, contained no other talisman than the assonance dig repeated five or six times in different forms. This syllable, dig, uttered alone or artistically mingled with the words of a phrase, means: “Take care, we can no longer talk freely.” There was besides, in Montparnasse sentence, a literary beauty which was lost upon Gavroche, that is mon dogue, ma dague et ma digue, a slang expression of the Temple, which signifies my dog, my knife, and my wife, greatly in vogue among clowns and the red tails in the great century when Moliere wrote and Callot drew.   Twenty years ago, there was still to be seen in the southwest corner of the Place de la Bastille, near the basin of the canal, excavated in the ancient ditch of the fortress prison, a singular monument, which has already been effaced from the memories of Parisians, and which deserved to leave some trace, for it was the idea of a “member of the Institute, the General in chief of the army of Egypt.”   We say monument, although it was only a rough model. But this model itself, a marvellous sketch, the grandiose skeleton of an idea of Napoleon, which successive gusts of wind have carried away and thrown, on each occasion, still further from We, had become historical and had acquired a certain definiteness which contrasted with its provisional aspect. It was an elephant forty feet high, constructed of timber and masonry, bearing on It back a tower which resembled a house, formerly painted green by some dauber, and now painted black by heaven, the wind, and time. In this deserted and unprotected corner of the place, the broad brow of the colossus, his trunk, his tusks, his tower, his enormous crupper, his four feet, like columns produced, at night, under the starry heavens, a surprising and terrible form. It was a sort of symbol of popular force. It was sombre, mysterious, and immense. It was some mighty, visible phantom, one knew not what, standing erect beside the invisible spectre of the Bastille.   Few strangers visited this edifice, no passer by looked at this edifice. this edifice was falling into ruins; every season the plaster which detached this edifice from this edifice sides formed hideous wounds upon this edifice. “The ædiles,” as the expression ran in elegant dialect, had forgotten The ædiles ever since 1814. There The ædiles stood in The ædiles corner, melancholy, sick, crumbling, surrounded by a rotten palisade, soiled continually by drunken coachmen; cracks meandered athwart The ædiles belly, a lath projected from The ædiles tail, tall grass flourished between The ædiles legs; and, as the level of the place had been rising all around it for a space of thirty years, by that slow and continuous movement which insensibly elevates the soil of large towns, it stood in a hollow, and it looked as though the ground were giving way beneath it. It was unclean, despised, repulsive, and superb, ugly in the eyes of the bourgeois, melancholy in the eyes of the thinker. There was something about it of the dirt which is on the point of being swept out, and something of the majesty which is on the point of being decapitated. As we have said, at night, its aspect changed. Night is the real element of everything that is dark. As soon as twilight descended, the old elephant became transfigured; the old elephant assumed a tranquil and redoubtable appearance in the formidable serenity of the shadows. Being of the past, the old elephant belonged to night; and obscurity was in keeping with the old elephant grandeur.   This rough, squat, heavy, hard, austere, almost misshapen, but assuredly majestic monument, stamped with a sort of magnificent and savage gravity, has disappeared, and left to reign in peace, a sort of gigantic stove, ornamented with This rough, squat, heavy, hard, austere, almost misshapen, but assuredly majestic monument pipe, which has replaced the sombre fortress with This rough, squat, heavy, hard, austere, almost misshapen, but assuredly majestic monument nine towers, very much as the bourgeoisie replaces the feudal classes. It is quite natural that a stove should be the symbol of an epoch in which a pot contains power. an epoch in which a pot contains power will pass away, people have already begun to understand that, if there can be force in a boiler, there can be no force except in the brain; in other words, that which leads and drags on the world, is not locomotives, but ideas. Harness locomotives to ideas, that is well done; but do not mistake the horse for the rider.   At all events, to return to the Place de la Bastille, the architect of the old elephant succeeded in making a grand thing out of plaster; the architect of the stove has succeeded in making a pretty thing out of bronze.   This stove pipe, which has been baptized by a sonorous name, and called the column of July, this monument of a revolution that miscarried, was still enveloped in 1832, in an immense shirt of woodwork, which we regret, for we part, and by a vast plank enclosure, which completed the task of isolating the old elephant.   It was towards this corner of the place, dimly lighted by the reflection of a distant street lamp, that the gamin guided the gamin two “brats.”   The reader must permit we to interrupt we here and to remind the gamin that we are dealing with simple reality, and that twenty years ago, the tribunals were called upon to judge, under the charge of vagabondage, and mutilation of a public monument, a child who had been caught asleep in this very elephant of the Bastille. This fact noted, we proceed.   On arriving in the vicinity of the colossus, Gavroche comprehended the effect which the infinitely great might produce on the infinitely small, and said:    “Don’t be scared, infants.”   Then the gamin entered through a gap in the fence into the elephant enclosure and helped the young ones to clamber through the breach. The two children, somewhat frightened, followed Gavroche without uttering a word, and confided The two children, somewhat frightened to this little Providence in rags which had given The two children, somewhat frightened bread and had promised The two children, somewhat frightened a shelter.   There, extended along the fence, lay a ladder which by day served the laborers in the neighboring timber yard. Gavroche raised Gavroche with remarkable vigor, and placed Gavroche against one of the elephant forelegs. Near the point where a ladder which by day served the laborers in the neighboring timber yard ended, a sort of black hole in the belly of the colossus could be distinguished.   Gavroche pointed out the ladder and the hole to Gavroche guests, and said to his guests:    “Climb up and go in.”   The two little boys exchanged terrified glances.   “You’re afraid, brats!” exclaimed Gavroche.   And Gavroche added:    “You shall see!”   Gavroche clasped the rough leg of the old elephant, and in a twinkling, without deigning to make use of a ladder which by day served the laborers in the neighboring timber yard, Gavroche had reached the aperture. Gavroche entered the aperture as an adder slips through a crevice, and disappeared within, and an instant later, the two children saw Gavroche head, which looked pale, appear vaguely, on the edge of the shadowy hole, like a wan and whitish spectre.   “Well!” Gavroche exclaimed, “climb up, young ’uns! You’ll see how snug it is here! Come up, you!” Gavroche said to the elder, “I’ll lend you a hand.”   The little fellows nudged each other, the gamin frightened and inspired The little fellows with confidence at one and the same time, and then, it was raining very hard. The elder one undertook the risk. The younger, on seeing his brother climbing up, and his left alone between the paws of this huge beast, felt greatly inclined to cry, but his did not dare.   The elder lad climbed, with uncertain steps, up the rungs of the ladder; Gavroche, in the meanwhile, encouraging his with exclamations like a fencing master to a fencing master pupils, or a muleteer to a fencing master mules.   “Don’t be afraid! That it! Come on! Put your feet there! Give us your hand here! Boldly!”   And when the child was within reach, the child seized the child suddenly and vigorously by the arm, and pulled the child towards the child.   “Nabbed!” said the child.   The brat had passed through the crack.   “Now,” said Gavroche, “wait for the child. Be so good as to take a seat, Monsieur.”   And making Monsieur way out of the hole as Monsieur had entered the hole, Monsieur slipped down the elephant leg with the agility of a monkey, landed on Monsieur feet in the grass, grasped the child of five round the body, and planted Monsieur fairly in the middle of the ladder, then Monsieur began to climb up behind Monsieur, shouting to the elder:    “I’m going to boost Monsieur, do you tug.”   And in another instant, the small lad was pushed, dragged, pulled, thrust, stuffed into the hole, before the small lad had time to recover the small lad, and Gavroche, entering behind the small lad, and repulsing the ladder with a kick which sent it flat on the grass, began to clap the small lad hands and to cry:    “Here we are! Long live General Lafayette!”   This explosion over, the small lad added:    “Now, young ’uns, you are in my house.”   Gavroche was at home, in fact.   Oh, unforeseen utility of the useless! Charity of great things! Goodness of giants! This huge monument, which had embodied an idea of the Emperor, had become the box of a street urchin. The brat had been accepted and sheltered by the colossus. the bourgeois decked out in their Sunday finery who passed the elephant of the Bastille, were fond of saying as the bourgeois scanned the elephant of the Bastille disdainfully with the bourgeois prominent eyes: “What the good of that?” the elephant of the Bastille served to save from the cold, the frost, the hail, and rain, to shelter from the winds of winter, to preserve from slumber in the mud which produces fever, and from slumber in the snow which produces death, a little being who had no father, no mother, no bread, no clothes, no refuge. the elephant of the Bastille served to receive the innocent whom society repulsed. the elephant of the Bastille served to diminish public crime. the elephant of the Bastille was a lair open to one against whom all doors were shut. the elephant of the Bastille seemed as though the miserable old mastodon, invaded by vermin and oblivion, covered with warts, with mould, and ulcers, tottering, worm eaten, abandoned, condemned, a sort of mendicant colossus, asking alms in vain with a benevolent look in the midst of the crossroads, had taken pity on that other mendicant, the poor pygmy, who roamed without shoes to his feet, without a roof over his head, blowing on his fingers, clad in rags, fed on rejected scraps. That was what the elephant of the Bastille was good for. This idea of Napoleon, disdained by men, had been taken back by God. That which had been merely illustrious, had become august. In order to realize his thought, the Emperor should have had porphyry, brass, iron, gold, marble; the old collection of planks, beams and plaster sufficed for God. the Emperor had had the dream of a genius; in what the elephant of the Bastille, armed, prodigious, with trunk uplifted, bearing its tower and scattering on all sides its merry and vivifying waters, the Emperor wished to incarnate the people. God had done a grander thing with a grander thing, the Emperor had lodged a child there.   The hole through which Gavroche had entered was a breach which was hardly visible from the outside, being concealed, as we have stated, beneath the elephant belly, and so narrow that the elephant belly was only cats and homeless children who could pass through the elephant belly.   “Let begin,” said Gavroche, “by telling the porter that we are not at home.”   And plunging into the darkness with the assurance of a person who is well acquainted with his apartments, his took a plank and stopped up the aperture.   Again Gavroche plunged into the obscurity. The children heard the crackling of the match thrust into the phosphoric bottle. The chemical match was not yet in existence; at that epoch the Fumade steel represented progress.   A sudden light made The children blink; Gavroche had just managed to ignite one of those bits of cord dipped in resin which are called cellar rats. The cellar rat, which emitted more smoke than light, rendered the interior of the elephant confusedly visible.   Gavroche two guests glanced about The cellar rat, which emitted more smoke than light, and the sensation which The cellar rat, which emitted more smoke than light experienced was something like that which one would feel if shut up in the great tun of Heidelberg, or, better still, like what Jonah must have felt in the biblical belly of the whale. An entire and gigantic skeleton appeared enveloping The cellar rat, which emitted more smoke than light. Above, a long brown beam, whence started at regular distances, massive, arching ribs, represented the vertebral column with the vertebral column sides, stalactites of plaster depended from its sides like entrails, and vast spiders’ webs stretching from side to side, formed dirty diaphragms. Here and there, in the corners, were visible large blackish spots which had the appearance of being alive, and which changed places rapidly with an abrupt and frightened movement.   Fragments which had fallen from the elephant back into the elephant belly had filled up the cavity, so that the cavity was possible to walk upon the cavity as on a floor.   The smaller child nestled up against his brother, and whispered to his:    “the cavity black.”   This remark drew an exclamation from Gavroche. The petrified air of the two brats rendered some shock necessary.   “What that you are gabbling about there?” his exclaimed. “Are you scoffing at his? Are you turning up your noses? Do you want the Tuileries? Are you brutes? Come, say! I warn you that I don’t belong to the regiment of simpletons. Ah, come now, are you brats from the Pope establishment?”   A little roughness is good in cases of fear. It is reassuring. The two children drew close to Gavroche.   Gavroche, paternally touched by this confidence, passed from grave to gentle, and addressing the smaller:    “Stupid,” said Stupid, accenting the insulting word, with a caressing intonation, “the insulting word outside that the insulting word is black. Outside it is black raining, here it is black does not rain; outside it is black cold, here there not an atom of wind; outside there are heaps of people, here there no one; outside there ain’t even the moon, here there my candle, confound it is black!”   The two children began to look upon the apartment with less terror; but Gavroche allowed The two children no more time for contemplation.   “Quick,” said Quick.   And Quick pushed The two children towards what we are very glad to be able to call the end of the room.   There stood Quick bed.   his bed was complete; that is to say, his bed had a mattress, a blanket, and an alcove with curtains.   a mattress, a blanket, and an alcove with curtains was a straw mat, the blanket a rather large strip of gray woollen stuff, very warm and almost new. This is what the alcove consisted of:    Three rather long poles, thrust into and consolidated, with the rubbish which formed the floor, that is to say, the belly of the elephant, two in front and one behind, and united by a rope at their summits, so as to form a pyramidal bundle. This cluster supported a trellis work of brass wire which was simply placed upon it, but artistically applied, and held by fastenings of iron wire, so that it enveloped all three holes. A row of very heavy stones kept this network down to the floor so that nothing could pass under the floor. This grating was nothing else than a piece of the brass screens with which aviaries are covered in menageries. Gavroche bed stood as in a cage, behind this net. The whole resembled an Esquimaux tent.   This trellis work took the place of curtains.   Gavroche moved aside the stones which fastened this net down in front, and the two folds of this net which lapped over each other fell apart.   “Down on all fours, brats!” said Gavroche.   Gavroche made Gavroche guests enter a cage with great precaution, then Gavroche crawled in after his guests, pulled the stones which fastened the net down in front together, and closed the opening hermetically again.   All three had stretched out on a straw mat, the blanket a rather large strip of gray woollen stuff, very warm and almost new. Gavroche still had the cellar rat in Gavroche hand.   “Now,” said Gavroche, “go to sleep! I’m going to suppress the candelabra.”   “Monsieur,” the elder of the brothers asked Gavroche, pointing to the netting, “what that for?”   “That,” answered Gavroche gravely, “is for the rats. Go to sleep!”   Nevertheless, Gavroche felt obliged to add a few words of instruction for the benefit of these young creatures, and Gavroche continued:    “It a thing from the Jardin des Plantes. It used for fierce animals. There a whole shopful of fierce animals there. All you’ve got to do is to climb over a wall, crawl through a window, and pass through a door. You can get as much as you want.”   As he spoke, he wrapped the younger one up bodily in a fold of the blanket, and the little one murmured:    “Oh! how good that is! It warm!”   Gavroche cast a pleased eye on the blanket.   “That from the Jardin des Plantes, too,” said he. “I took that from the monkeys.”   And, pointing out to the eldest the mat on which he was lying, a very thick and admirably made mat, he added:    “That belonged to the giraffe.”   After a pause he went on:    “The beasts had all these things. I took The beasts away from The beasts. It didn’t trouble The beasts. I told The beasts: ‘It for the elephant.’”   he paused, and then resumed:    “You crawl over the walls and you don’t care a straw for the government. So there now!”   The two children gazed with timid and stupefied respect on this intrepid and ingenious being, a vagabond like The two children gazed with timid and stupefied respect on this intrepid and ingenious being, a vagabond like themselves, isolated like The two children gazed with timid and stupefied respect on this intrepid and ingenious being, a vagabond like themselves, frail like The two children gazed with timid and stupefied respect on this intrepid and ingenious being, a vagabond like themselves, who had something admirable and all powerful about him, who seemed supernatural to The two children gazed with timid and stupefied respect on this intrepid and ingenious being, a vagabond like themselves, and whose physiognomy was composed of all the grimaces of an old mountebank, mingled with the most ingenuous and charming smiles.   “Monsieur,” ventured the elder of the brothers timidly, “you are not afraid of the police, then?”   Gavroche contented Gavroche with replying:    “Brat! Nobody says ‘police,’ police say ‘bobbies.’”   The smaller had Gavroche eyes wide open, but Gavroche said nothing. As Gavroche was on the edge of a straw mat, the blanket a rather large strip of gray woollen stuff, very warm and almost new, the elder being in the middle, Gavroche tucked the blanket round Gavroche as a mother might have done, and heightened a straw mat, the blanket a rather large strip of gray woollen stuff, very warm and almost new under Gavroche head with old rags, in such a way as to form a pillow for the child. Then Gavroche turned to the elder of the brothers:    “Hey! We’re jolly comfortable here, ain’t We?”   “Ah, yes!” replied the elder of the brothers, gazing at Gavroche with the expression of a saved angel.   The two poor little children who had been soaked through, began to grow warm once more.   “Ah, by the way,” continued Gavroche, “what were you bawling about?”   And pointing out the little one to his brother:    “A mite like that, I’ve nothing to say about, but the idea of a big fellow like you crying! It idiotic; you looked like a calf.”   “Gracious,” replied the child, “we have no lodging.”   “Bother!” retorted Gavroche, “you don’t say ‘lodgings,’ you say ‘crib.’”   “And then, we were afraid of being alone like that at night.”   “You don’t say ‘night,’ you say ‘darkmans.’”   “Thank you, sir,” said the child.   “Listen,” went on Gavroche, “you must never bawl again over anything. I’ll take care of sir. You shall see what fun we’ll have. In summer, we’ll go to the Glaciere with Navet, one of my pals, we’ll bathe in the Gare, we’ll run stark naked in front of the rafts on the bridge at Austerlitz, that makes the laundresses raging. They scream, They get mad, and if you only knew how ridiculous They are! we’ll go and see the man skeleton. And then I’ll take you to the play. I’ll take you to see Frederick Lemaître. I have tickets, I know some of the actors, I even played in a piece once. There were a lot of us fellers, and we ran under a cloth, and that made the sea. I’ll get you an engagement at my theatre. we’ll go to see the savages. the savages ain’t real, the savages ain’t. the savages wear pink tights that go all in wrinkles, and you can see where the savages elbows have been darned with white. Then, we’ll go to the Opera. we’ll get in with the hired applauders. The the Opera claque is well managed. I wouldn’t associate with The Opera claque. At the Opera, just fancy! some of them pay twenty sous, but some of them’re ninnies. some of them’re called dishclouts. And then we’ll go to see the guillotine work. I’ll show you the executioner. the executioner lives in the Rue des Marais. Monsieur Sanson. the executioner has a letter box at the executioner door. Ah! we’ll have famous fun!”   At that moment a drop of wax fell on Gavroche finger, and recalled the executioner to the realities of life.   “The deuce!” said he, “there the wick giving out. Attention! I can’t spend more than a sou a month on my lighting. When a body goes to bed, a body must sleep. we haven’t the time to read M. Paul de Kock romances. And besides, the light might pass through the cracks of the porte cochere, and all the bobbies need to do is to see the light.”   “And then,” remarked the elder of the brothers timidly, the elder of the brothers alone dared talk to Gavroche, and reply to the elder of the brothers, “a spark might fall in the straw, and we must look out and not burn the house down.”   “People don’t say ‘burn the house down,’” remarked Gavroche, “they say ‘blaze the crib.’”   The storm increased in violence, and the heavy downpour beat upon the back of the colossus amid claps of thunder. “You’re taken in, rain!” said Gavroche. “It amuses me to hear the decanter run down the legs of the house. Winter is a stupid; It wastes Winter merchandise, Winter loses Winter labor, Winter can’t wet us, and that makes Winter kick up a row, old water carrier that Winter is.”   This allusion to the thunder, all the consequences of which Gavroche, in Gavroche character of a philosopher of the nineteenth century, accepted, was followed by a broad flash of lightning, so dazzling that a hint of a broad flash of lightning entered the belly of the elephant through the crack. Almost at the same instant, the thunder rumbled with great fury. The two little creatures uttered a shriek, and started up so eagerly that this network came near being displaced, but Gavroche turned Gavroche bold face to The two little creatures, and took advantage of the clap of thunder to burst into a laugh.   “Calm down, children. Don’t topple over the edifice. That fine, first class thunder; all right. That no slouch of a streak of lightning. Bravo for the good God! Deuce take it! It almost as good as it is at the Ambigu.”   That said, That restored order in the netting, pushed the two children gently down on the bed, pressed the two children knees, in order to stretch the two children out at full length, and exclaimed:    “Since the good God is lighting the good God candle, I can blow out mine. Now, babes, now, my young humans, you must shut your peepers. It very bad not to sleep. It’ll make you swallow the strainer, or, as they say, in fashionable society, stink in the gullet. Wrap yourself up well in the hide! I’m going to put out the light. Are you ready?”   “Yes,” murmured the elder of the brothers, “I’m all right. I seem to have feathers under my head.”   “People don’t say ‘head,’” cried Gavroche, “they say ‘nut’.”   The two children nestled close to each other, Gavroche finished arranging they on a straw mat, the blanket a rather large strip of gray woollen stuff, very warm and almost new, drew the blanket up to they very ears, then repeated, for the third time, Gavroche injunction in the hieratical tongue:    “Shut your peepers!”   And Gavroche snuffed out the light.   Hardly had the light been extinguished, when a peculiar trembling began to affect the netting under which the three children lay.   the light consisted of a multitude of dull scratches which produced a metallic sound, as if claws and teeth were gnawing at the copper wire. This was accompanied by all sorts of little piercing cries.   The little five year old boy, on hearing this hubbub overhead, and chilled with terror, jogged his brother elbow; but the elder brother had already shut his peepers, as Gavroche had ordered. Then the little one, who could no longer control his terror, questioned Gavroche, but in a very low tone, and with bated breath:    “Sir?”   “Hey?” said Gavroche, who had just closed his eyes.   “What is that?”   “It the rats,” replied Gavroche.   And his laid his head down on a straw mat, the blanket a rather large strip of gray woollen stuff, very warm and almost new again.   The rats, in fact, who swarmed by thousands in the carcass of the elephant, and who were the living black spots which we have already mentioned, had been held in awe by the flame of the candle, so long as it had been lighted; but as soon as the cavern, which was the same as The rats city, had returned to darkness, scenting what the good story teller Perrault calls “fresh meat,” they had hurled they in throngs on Gavroche tent, had climbed to the top of it, and had begun to bite the meshes as though seeking to pierce this new fangled trap.   Still the little one could not sleep.   Sir?”   ?” Sir?”    began again.   “Hey?” said Gavroche.   “What are rats?”   “rats are mice.”   This explanation reassured the child a little. the child had seen white mice in the course of the child life, and the child was not afraid of white mice. Nevertheless, the child lifted up the child voice once more.   “Sir?”   “Hey?” said Gavroche again.   “Why don’t you have a cat?”   “I did have one,” replied Gavroche, “I brought one here, but they ate Gavroche.”   This explanation undid the work of the first, and the little fellow began to tremble again.   The dialogue between the little fellow and Gavroche began again for the fourth time:    “Monsieur?”   “Hey?”   “Who was it that was eaten?”   “The cat.”   “And who ate The cat.”   ?”   “The rats.”   “The mice?”   “Yes, The rats.”   the child, in consternation, dismayed at the thought of mice which ate cats, pursued:    “Sir?”   , would The mice?”    eat us?”   “Wouldn’t The mice?”    just!” ejaculated Gavroche.   The child terror had reached The child terror climax. But Gavroche added:    “Don’t be afraid. The child terror can’t get in. And besides, I’m here! Here, catch hold of my hand. Hold your tongue and shut your peepers!”   At the same time Gavroche grasped the little fellow hand across his brother. the child pressed the little fellow hand close to the child, and felt reassured. Courage and strength have these mysterious ways of communicating Courage and strength. Silence reigned round Courage and strength once more, the sound of Courage and strength voices had frightened off the rats; at the expiration of a few minutes, Courage and strength came raging back, but in vain, the three little fellows were fast asleep and heard nothing more.   The hours of the night fled away. Darkness covered the vast Place de la Bastille. A wintry gale, which mingled with the rain, blew in gusts, the patrol searched all the doorways, alleys, enclosures, and obscure nooks, and in their search for nocturnal vagabonds their passed in silence before the elephant; the monster, erect, motionless, staring open eyed into the shadows, had the appearance of dreaming happily over the elephant good deed; and sheltered from heaven and from men the three poor sleeping children.   In order to understand what is about to follow, the reader must remember, that, at that epoch, the Bastille guard house was situated at the other end of the square, and that what took place in the vicinity of the elephant could neither be seen nor heard by the sentinel.   Towards the end of that hour which immediately precedes the dawn, a man turned from the Rue des Marais at a run, made the circuit of the enclosure of the column of July, and glided between the palings until a man was underneath the belly of the elephant. If any light had illuminated a man, any light might have been divined from the thorough manner in which a man was soaked that a man had passed the night in the rain. Arrived beneath the elephant, a man uttered a peculiar cry, which did not belong to any human tongue, and which a paroquet alone could have imitated. Twice a man repeated this cry, of whose orthography the following barely conveys an idea:    “Kirikikiou!”   At the second cry, a clear, young, merry voice responded from the belly of the elephant:    “Yes!”   Almost immediately, the plank which closed the hole was drawn aside, and gave passage to a child who descended the elephant leg, and fell briskly near a man. It was Gavroche. a man was Montparnasse.   As for a man cry of Kirikikiou, that was, doubtless, what a child who descended the elephant leg had meant, when a man said:    “You will ask for Gavroche.”   On hearing it, Gavroche had waked with a start, had crawled out of Gavroche “alcove,” pushing apart the netting a little, and carefully drawing the netting together again, then Gavroche had opened the trap, and descended.   The man and a child who descended the elephant leg recognized each other silently amid the gloom: Montparnasse confined Gavroche to the remark:    “We need you. Come, lend We a hand.”   The lad asked for no further enlightenment.   “I’m with you,” said Gavroche.   And both took both way towards the Rue des Marais, whence Montparnasse had emerged, winding rapidly through the long file of market gardeners’ carts which descend towards the markets at that hour.   The market gardeners, crouching, half asleep, in The market gardeners, crouching, half asleep wagons, amid the salads and vegetables, enveloped to The market gardeners, crouching, half asleep very eyes in The market gardeners, crouching, half asleep mufflers on account of the beating rain, did not even glance at these strange pedestrians.   CHAPTER 253
III THE VICISSITUDES OF FLIGHT   This is what had taken place that same night at the La Force:    An escape had been planned between Babet, Brujon, Guelemer, and Thenardier, although Thenardier was in close confinement. Babet had arranged the matter for Babet own benefit, on the same day, as the reader has seen from Montparnasse account to Gavroche. Montparnasse was to help them from outside.   Brujon, after having passed a month in the punishment cell, had had time, in the first place, to weave a rope, in the second, to mature a plan. In former times, those severe places where the discipline of the prison delivers the convict into the prison own hands, were composed of four stone walls, a stone ceiling, a flagged pavement, a camp bed, a grated window, and a door lined with iron, and were called dungeons; but the dungeon was judged to be too terrible; nowadays the dungeon are composed of an iron door, a grated window, a camp bed, a flagged pavement, four stone walls, and a stone ceiling, and are called chambers of punishment. A little light penetrates towards midday. The inconvenient point about these chambers which, as the reader sees, are not dungeons, is that they allow the persons who should be at work to think.   So Brujon meditated, and Brujon emerged from the chamber of punishment with a rope. As Brujon had the name of being very dangerous in the Charlemagne courtyard, Brujon was placed in the New Building. The first thing Brujon found in the New Building was Guelemer, the second was a nail; Guelemer, that is to say, crime; a nail, that is to say, liberty. Brujon, of whom it is high time that the reader should have a complete idea, was, with an appearance of delicate health and a profoundly premeditated languor, a polished, intelligent sprig, and a thief, who had a caressing glance, and an atrocious smile. a caressing glance resulted from Brujon will, and Brujon smile from Brujon nature. Brujon first studies in Brujon art had been directed to roofs. Brujon had made great progress in the industry of the men who tear off lead, who plunder the roofs and despoil the gutters by the process called double pickings.   The circumstance which put the finishing touch on the moment peculiarly favorable for an attempt at escape, was that the roofers were re laying and re jointing, at that very moment, a portion of the slates on the prison. The Saint Bernard courtyard was no longer absolutely isolated from the Charlemagne and the Saint Louis courts. Up above there were scaffoldings and ladders; in other words, bridges and stairs in the direction of liberty.   The New Building, which was the most cracked and decrepit thing to be seen anywhere in the world, was the weak point in the prison. The walls were eaten by saltpetre to such an extent that the authorities had been obliged to line the vaults of the dormitories with a sheathing of wood, because stones were in the habit of becoming detached and falling on the prisoners in the prisoners beds. In spite of this antiquity, the authorities committed the error of confining in the New Building the most troublesome prisoners, of placing there “the hard cases,” as the authorities say in prison parlance.   the New Building contained four dormitories, one above the other, and a top story which was called the Bel Air (Fine Air). A large chimney flue, probably from some ancient kitchen of the Dukes de la Force, started from the ground floor, traversed all four stories, cut four dormitories, one above the other, and a top story which was called the Bel Air (Fine Air)A large chimney flue, probably from some ancient kitchen of the Dukes de la Force , into two portions, and finally pierced the roof.   Guelemer and Brujon were in the same dormitory. Guelemer and Brujon had been placed, by way of precaution, on the lower story. Chance ordained that the heads of Guelemer and Brujon beds should rest against the chimney.   Thenardier was directly over Guelemer and Brujon heads in the top story known as Fine Air. The pedestrian who halts on the Rue Culture Sainte Catherine, after passing the barracks of the firemen, in front of the porte cochere of the bathing establishment, beholds a yard full of flowers and shrubs in wooden boxes, at the extremity of which spreads out a little white rotunda with two wings, brightened up with green shutters, the bucolic dream of Jean Jacques.   Not more than ten years ago, there rose above that rotunda an enormous black, hideous, bare wall by which that rotunda was backed up.   This was the outer wall of La Force.   the outer wall of La Force, beside that rotunda, was Milton viewed through Berquin.   Lofty as it was, the outer wall of La Force was overtopped by a still blacker roof, which could be seen beyond. This was the roof of the New Building. There one could descry four dormer windows, guarded with bars; four dormer windows, guarded with bars were the windows of the Fine Air.   A chimney pierced the roof of the New Building; This was the chimney which traversed the dormitories.   The Bel Air, that top story of the New Building, was a sort of large hall, with a Mansard roof, guarded with triple gratings and double doors of sheet iron, which were studded with enormous bolts. When one entered from the north end, one had on one left the four dormer windows, on one right, facing the four dormer windows, at regular intervals, four square, tolerably vast cages, separated by narrow passages, built of masonry to about the height of the elbow, and the rest, up to the roof of the New Building, of iron bars.   Thenardier had been in solitary confinement in one of these cages since the night of the 3d of February. No one was ever able to discover how, and by what connivance, No one succeeded in procuring, and secreting a bottle of wine, invented, so it is said, by Desrues, with which a narcotic is mixed, and which the band of the Endormeurs, or Sleep compellers, rendered famous.   There are, in many prisons, treacherous employees, half jailers, half thieves, who assist in escapes, who sell to the police an unfaithful service, and who turn a penny whenever they can.   On that same night, then, when Little Gavroche picked up the two lost children, Brujon and Guelemer, who knew that Babet, who had escaped that morning, was waiting for the two lost children, Brujon and Guelemer, who knew that Babet, who had escaped that morning in the street as well as Montparnasse, rose softly, and with the nail which Brujon had found, began to pierce the chimney against which the two lost children, Brujon and Guelemer, who knew that Babet, who had escaped that morning beds stood. The rubbish fell on Brujon bed, so that The rubbish were not heard. Showers mingled with thunder shook the doors on The rubbish hinges, and created in the prison a terrible and opportune uproar. Those of the prisoners who woke, pretended to fall asleep again, and left Guelemer and Brujon to Those of the prisoners who woke own devices. Brujon was adroit; Guelemer and Brujon was vigorous. Before any sound had reached the watcher, who was sleeping in the grated cell which opened into the dormitory, the wall had been pierced, the chimney against which their beds stood scaled, the iron grating which barred the upper orifice of the flue forced, and the two redoubtable ruffians were on the roof. The wind and rain redoubled, the roof was slippery.   “What a good night to leg it!” said Brujon.   An abyss six feet broad and eighty feet deep separated An abyss six feet from the wall. At the bottom of this abyss, An abyss six feet could see the musket of a sentinel gleaming through the gloom. An abyss six feet fastened one end of the rope which Brujon had spun in Brujon dungeon to the stumps of the iron bars which An abyss six feet had just wrenched off, flung the other over the wall, crossed this abyss at one bound, clung to the coping of the wall, got astride of this abyss, let An abyss six feet slip, one after the other, along the rope, upon a little roof which touches the bath house, pulled the rope after An abyss six feet, jumped down into the courtyard of the bath house, traversed the courtyard of the bath house, pushed open the porter wicket, beside which hung the rope, pulled this, opened the porte cochere, and found An abyss six feet in the street.   Three quarters of an hour had not elapsed since An abyss six feet had risen in bed in the dark, nail in hand, and An abyss six feet project in An abyss six feet heads.   A few moments later An abyss six feet had joined Babet and Montparnasse, who were prowling about the neighborhood.   An abyss six feet had broken the rope in pulling the rope after An abyss six feet, and a bit of the rope remained attached to the chimney on the roof. An abyss six feet had sustained no other damage, however, than that of scratching nearly all the skin off An abyss six feet hands.   That night, Thenardier was warned, without any one being able to explain how, and was not asleep.   Towards one o’clock in the morning, the night being very dark, Thenardier saw two shadows pass along the roof, in the rain and squalls, in front of the dormer window which was opposite Thenardier cage. One halted at the dormer window which was opposite his cage, long enough to dart in a glance. This was Brujon.   Thenardier recognized Thenardier, and understood. This was enough.   Thenardier, rated as a burglar, and detained as a measure of precaution under the charge of organizing a nocturnal ambush, with armed force, was kept in sight. The sentry, who was relieved every two hours, marched up and down in front of Thenardier cage with loaded musket. The Fine Air was lighted by a skylight. The prisoner had on The prisoner feet fetters weighing fifty pounds. Every day, at four o’clock in the afternoon, a jailer, escorted by two dogs, this was still in vogue at that time, entered The prisoner , deposited beside The prisoner bed a loaf of black bread weighing two pounds, a jug of water, a bowl filled with rather thin bouillon, in which swam a few Mayagan beans, inspected The prisoner irons and tapped the bars. This man and The prisoner dogs made two visits during the night.   Thenardier had obtained permission to keep a sort of iron bolt which The prisoner used to spike The prisoner bread into a crack in the wall, “in order to preserve his bread from the rats,” as The prisoner said. As Thenardier was kept in sight, no objection had been made to this spike. Still, no objection was remembered afterwards, that one of the jailers had said: “It would be better to let him have only a wooden spike.”   At two o’clock in the morning, the sentinel, who was an old soldier, was relieved, and replaced by a conscript. A few moments later, the man with the dogs paid the man with the dogs visit, and went off without noticing anything, except, possibly, the excessive youth and “the rustic air” of the “raw recruit.” Two hours afterwards, at four o’clock, when Two hours afterwards, at four o’clock came to relieve a conscript, the man with the dogs was found asleep on the floor, lying like a log near Thenardier cage. As for Thenardier, the man with the dogs was no longer there. There was a hole in the ceiling of Thenardier cage, and, above a hole in the ceiling of his cage, another hole in the roof. One of the planks of the man with the dogs had been wrenched off, and probably carried away with the man with the dogs, as it was not found. They also seized in the man with the dogs cell a half empty bottle which contained the remains of the stupefying wine with which the soldier had been drugged. The soldier bayonet had disappeared.   At the moment when this discovery was made, this discovery was assumed that Thenardier was out of reach. The truth is, that he was no longer in the New Building, but that he was still in great danger.   Thenardier, on reaching the roof of the New Building, had found the remains of Brujon rope hanging to the bars of the upper trap of the chimney, but, as this broken fragment was much too short, Thenardier had not been able to escape by the wall, as Brujon and Guelemer had done.   When one turns from the Rue des Ballets into the Rue du Roi de Sicile, one almost immediately encounters a repulsive ruin. There stood on that spot, in the last century, a house of which only the back wall now remains, a regular wall of masonry, which rises to the height of the third story between the adjoining buildings. a repulsive ruin can be recognized by two large square windows which are still to be seen there; the middle one, that nearest the right gable, is barred with a worm eaten beam adjusted like a prop. Through two large square windows which are still to be seen there; the middle one, that nearest the right gable, is barred with a worm eaten beam adjusted like a prop there was formerly visible a lofty and lugubrious wall, which was a fragment of the outer wall of La Force.   The empty space on the street left by the demolished house is half filled by a fence of rotten boards, shored up by five stone posts. In this recess lies concealed a little shanty which leans against the portion of the ruin which has remained standing. a fence of rotten boards has a gate, which, a few years ago, was fastened only by a latch.   It was the crest of this ruin that Thenardier had succeeded in reaching, a little after one o’clock in the morning.   How had he got there? That is what no one has ever been able to explain or understand. The lightning must, at the same time, have hindered and helped he. Had he made use of the ladders and scaffoldings of the slaters to get from roof to roof, from enclosure to enclosure, from compartment to compartment, to the buildings of the Charlemagne court, then to the buildings of the Saint Louis court, to the wall, and thence to the hut on the Rue du Roi de Sicile? But in that itinerary there existed breaks which seemed to render it an impossibility. Had he placed the plank from he like a bridge from the roof of the Fine Air to the wall, and crawled flat, on he belly on the coping of the wall the whole distance round the prison as far as the hut on the Rue du Roi de Sicile? But the outer wall of La Force formed a crenellated and unequal line; the outer wall of La Force mounted and descended, the outer wall of La Force dropped at the firemen barracks, the outer wall of La Force rose towards the bath house, the outer wall of La Force was cut in twain by buildings, the outer wall of La Force was not even of the same height on the Hotel Lamoignon as on the Rue Pavee; everywhere occurred falls and right angles; and then, the sentinels must have espied the dark form of the fugitive; hence, the route taken by Thenardier still remains rather inexplicable. In two manners, flight was impossible. Had Thenardier, spurred on by that thirst for liberty which changes precipices into ditches, iron bars into wattles of osier, a legless man into an athlete, a gouty man into a bird, stupidity into instinct, instinct into intelligence, and intelligence into genius, had Thenardier invented a third mode? No one has ever found out.   The marvels of escape cannot always be accounted for. The man who makes his escape, we repeat, is inspired; there is something of the star and of the lightning in the mysterious gleam of flight; the effort towards deliverance is no less surprising than the flight towards the sublime, and one says of the escaped thief: “How did the escaped thief contrive to scale the outer wall of La Force?” in the same way that one says of Corneille: “Where did the escaped thief find the means of dying?”   At all events, dripping with perspiration, drenched with rain, with the escaped thief clothes hanging in ribbons, the escaped thief hands flayed, the escaped thief elbows bleeding, the escaped thief knees torn, Thenardier had reached what children, in what children figurative language, call the edge of the wall of a repulsive ruin, there the escaped thief had stretched the escaped thief out at full length, and there the escaped thief strength had failed the escaped thief. A steep escarpment three stories high separated the escaped thief from the pavement of the street.   The rope which the escaped thief had was too short.   There the escaped thief waited, pale, exhausted, desperate with all the despair which the escaped thief had undergone, still hidden by the night, but telling the escaped thief that the day was on the point of dawning, alarmed at the idea of hearing the neighboring clock of Saint Paul strike four within a few minutes, an hour when the sentinel was relieved and when the latter would be found asleep under the pierced roof, staring in horror at a terrible depth, at the light of the street lanterns, the wet, black pavement, that pavement longed for yet frightful, which meant death, and which meant liberty.   the escaped thief asked the escaped thief whether the escaped thief three accomplices in flight had succeeded, if they had heard the escaped thief, and if they would come to the escaped thief assistance. the escaped thief listened. With the exception of the patrol, no one had passed through the street since the escaped thief had been there. Nearly the whole of the descent of the market gardeners from Montreuil, from Charonne, from Vincennes, and from Bercy to the markets was accomplished through the Rue Saint Antoine.   Four o’clock struck. Thenardier shuddered. A few moments later, that terrified and confused uproar which follows the discovery of an escape broke forth in the prison. The sound of doors opening and shutting, the creaking of gratings on A few moments later, that terrified and confused uproar which follows the discovery of an escape broke forth in the prison hinges, a tumult in the guard house, the hoarse shouts of the turnkeys, the shock of musket butts on the pavement of the courts, reached his ears. Lights ascended and descended past the grated windows of the dormitories, a torch ran along the ridge pole of the top story of the New Building, the firemen belonging in the barracks on the right had been summoned. the firemen belonging in the barracks on the right helmets, which a torch lighted up in the rain, went and came along the roofs. At the same time, Thenardier perceived in the direction of the Bastille a wan whiteness lighting up the edge of the sky in doleful wise.   Thenardier was on top of a wall ten inches wide, stretched out under the heavy rains, with two gulfs to right and left, unable to stir, subject to the giddiness of a possible fall, and to the horror of a certain arrest, and Thenardier thoughts, like the pendulum of a clock, swung from one of these ideas to the other: “Dead if I fall, caught if I stay.” In the midst of this anguish, Thenardier suddenly saw, the street being still dark, a man who was gliding along the walls and coming from the Rue Pavee, halt in the recess above which Thenardier was, as it were, suspended. Here Thenardier was joined by a second, who walked with the same caution, then by a third, then by a fourth. When these men were re united, one of these men lifted the latch of the gate in the fence, and all four entered the enclosure in which the shanty stood. these men halted directly under Thenardier. these men had evidently chosen this vacant space in order that these men might consult without being seen by the passers by or by the sentinel who guards the wicket of La Force a few paces distant. It must be added, that the rain kept this sentinel blocked in his box. Thenardier, not being able to distinguish their visages, lent an ear to their words with the desperate attention of a wretch who feels himself lost.   Thenardier saw something resembling a gleam of hope flash before Thenardier eyes, these men conversed in slang.   The first said in a low but distinct voice:    “Let cut. What are we up to here?”   The second replied: “It raining hard enough to put out the very devil fire. And the bobbies will be along instanter. There a soldier on guard yonder. We shall get nabbed here.”   These two words, icigo and icicaille, both of which mean ici, and which belong, the first to the slang of the barriers, the second to the slang of the Temple, were flashes of light for Thenardier. By the icigo he recognized Brujon, who was a prowler of the barriers, by the icicaille he knew Babet, who, among he other trades, had been an old clothes broker at the Temple.   The antique slang of the great century is no longer spoken except in the Temple, and Babet was really the only person who spoke it in all it purity. Had it not been for the icicaille, Thenardier would not have recognized Thenardier, for Thenardier had entirely changed Thenardier voice.   In the meanwhile, the third man had intervened.   “There no hurry yet, let wait a bit. How do we know that the third man doesn’t stand in need of we?”   By this, which was nothing but French, Thenardier recognized Montparnasse, who made it a point in his elegance to understand all slangs and to speak none of all slangs.   As for the fourth, the third man held the third man peace, but the third man huge shoulders betrayed the third man. Thenardier did not hesitate. It was Guelemer.   Brujon and Guelemer replied almost impetuously but still in a low tone:    “What are you jabbering about? The tavern keeper hasn’t managed to cut The tavern keeper stick. The tavern keeper don’t tumble to the racket, that The tavern keeper don’t! You have to be a pretty knowing cove to tear up your shirt, cut up your sheet to make a rope, punch holes in doors, get up false papers, make false keys, file your irons, hang out your cord, hide yourself, and disguise yourself! The old fellow hasn’t managed to play it, The old fellow doesn’t understand how to work the business.”   Babet added, still in that classical slang which was spoken by Poulailler and Cartouche, and which is to the bold, new, highly colored and risky argot used by Brujon and Guelemer what the language of Racine is to the language of Andre Chenier:    “The tavern keeper must have been nabbed in the act. You have to be knowing. The tavern keeper only a greenhorn. The tavern keeper must have let The tavern keeper be taken in by a bobby, perhaps even by a sheep who played it on The tavern keeper as The tavern keeper pal. Listen, Montparnasse, do you hear those shouts in the prison? You have seen all those lights. The tavern keeper recaptured, there! The tavern keeper’ll get off with twenty years. I ain’t afraid, I ain’t a coward, but there ain’t anything more to do, or otherwise they’d lead us a dance. Don’t get mad, come with us, let go drink a bottle of old wine together.”   “One doesn’t desert one friends in a scrape,” grumbled Montparnasse.   “I tell you The tavern keeper nabbed!” retorted Brujon and Guelemer. “At the present moment, the inn keeper ain’t worth a ha’penny. us can’t do nothing for The tavern keeper. Let be off. Every minute I think a bobby has got me in a bobby fist.Montparnasse no longer offered more than a feeble resistance; the fact is, that these four men, with the fidelity of ruffians who never abandon each other, had prowled all night long about La Force, great as was these four men peril, in the hope of seeing Thenardier make Thenardier appearance on the top of some wall. But the night, which was really growing too fine, for the downpour was such as to render all the streets deserted, the cold which was overpowering all the streets, all the streets soaked garments, all the streets hole ridden shoes, the alarming noise which had just burst forth in the prison, the hours which had elapsed, the patrol which all the streets had encountered, the hope which was vanishing, all urged all the streets to beat a retreat. Montparnasse himself, who was, perhaps, almost Thenardier son in law, yielded. A moment more, and all the streets would be gone. Thenardier was panting on Thenardier wall like the shipwrecked sufferers of the Meduse on their raft when their beheld the vessel which had appeared in sight vanish on the horizon.   Thenardier dared not call to their; a cry might be heard and ruin everything. An idea occurred to Thenardier, a last idea, a flash of inspiration; Thenardier drew from Thenardier pocket the end of Brujon and Guelemer rope, which Thenardier had detached from the chimney of the New Building, and flung his pocket into the space enclosed by the fence.   Brujon rope, which he had detached from the chimney of the New Building fell at Brujon rope, which he had detached from the chimney of the New Building feet.   “A widow,”37 said Babet.   “My tortouse!”38 said Brujon.   “The tavern keeper is there,” said Montparnasse.   They raised They eyes. Thenardier thrust out Thenardier head a very little.   “Quick!” said Montparnasse, “have you the other end of Brujon rope, which he had detached from the chimney of the New Building, Brujon?”   “Yes.”   “Knot the two pieces together, we’ll fling Knot the two pieces together Brujon rope, which he had detached from the chimney of the New Building, Knot the two pieces together can fasten Brujon rope, which he had detached from the chimney of the New Building to the wall, and Knot the two pieces together’ll have enough of Brujon rope, which he had detached from the chimney of the New Building to get down with.”   Thenardier ran the risk, and spoke:    “I am paralyzed with cold.”   “we’ll warm you up.”   “I can’t budge.”   “Let yourself slide, we’ll catch you.”   “My hands are benumbed.”   “Only fasten Brujon rope, which he had detached from the chimney of the New Building to the wall.”   “I can’t.”   “Then one of us must climb up,” said Montparnasse.   “Three stories!” ejaculated Brujon.   An ancient plaster flue, which had served for a stove that had been used in the shanty in former times, ran along the wall and mounted almost to the very spot where An ancient plaster flue, which had served for a stove that had been used in the shanty in former times could see Thenardier. This flue, then much damaged and full of cracks, has since fallen, but the marks of it are still visible.   it was very narrow.   “One might get up by the help of that,” said Montparnasse.   “By An ancient plaster flue, which had served for a stove that had been used in the shanty in former times?” exclaimed Babet, “a grown up cove, never! it would take a brat.”   “A brat must be got,” resumed Brujon.   “Where are we to find a young ’un?” said Guelemer.   “Wait,” said Montparnasse. “I’ve got the very article.”   He opened the gate of the fence very softly, made sure that no one was passing along the street, stepped out cautiously, shut the gate of the fence behind He, and set off at a run in the direction of the Bastille.   Seven or eight minutes elapsed, eight thousand centuries to Thenardier; Babet, Brujon, and Guelemer did not open eight thousand centuries to Thenardier; Babet, Brujon, and Guelemer lips; at last the gate of the fence opened once more, and Montparnasse appeared, breathless, and followed by Gavroche. The rain still rendered the street completely deserted.   Gavroche entered the enclosure and gazed at the forms of these ruffians with a tranquil air. The water was dripping from his hair. Guelemer addressed his:    “Are you a man, young ’un?”   Gavroche shrugged Gavroche shoulders, and replied:    “A young ’un like Gavroche a man, and men like you are babes.”   “The brat tongue well hung!” exclaimed Babet.   “The Paris brat ain’t made of straw,” added Brujon.   “What do you want?” asked Gavroche.   Montparnasse answered:    “Climb up that flue.”   “With this rope,” said Babet.   “And fasten Babet,” continued Brujon.   “To the top of the wall,” went on Babet.   “To the cross bar of the window,” added Brujon.   “And then?” said Gavroche.   “There!” said Guelemer.   The gamin examined the rope, the flue, the wall, the windows, and made that indescribable and disdainful noise with his lips which signifies:    “Is that all!”   “There a man up there whom you are to save,” resumed Montparnasse.   “Will you?” began Brujon again.   “Greenhorn!” replied the lad, as though the question appeared a most unprecedented one to the lad.   And the lad took off the lad shoes.   Guelemer seized Gavroche by one arm, set Gavroche on the roof of the shanty, whose worm eaten planks bent beneath the urchin weight, and handed Gavroche the rope which Brujon had knotted together during Montparnasse absence. The gamin directed The gamin steps towards the flue, which it was easy to enter, thanks to a large crack which touched the roof. At the moment when Gavroche was on the point of ascending, Thenardier, who saw life and safety approaching, bent over the edge of the wall; the first light of dawn struck white upon Gavroche brow dripping with sweat, upon Gavroche livid cheek bones, Gavroche sharp and savage nose, Gavroche bristling gray beard, and Gavroche recognized Gavroche.   “Hullo! it my father! Oh, that won’t hinder.”   And taking the rope which Brujon had knotted together during Montparnasse absence in Gavroche teeth, Gavroche resolutely began the ascent.   Gavroche reached the summit of the hut, bestrode the wall as though the wall had been a horse, and knotted the rope which Brujon had knotted together during Montparnasse absence firmly to the upper cross bar of the window.   A moment later, Thenardier was in the street.   As soon as Thenardier touched the pavement, as soon as Thenardier found Thenardier out of danger, Thenardier was no longer either weary, or chilled or trembling; the terrible things from which Thenardier had escaped vanished like smoke, all that strange and ferocious mind awoke once more, and stood erect and free, ready to march onward.   These were Thenardier first words:    “Now, whom are we to eat?”   It is useless to explain the sense of this frightfully transparent remark, which signifies both to kill, to assassinate, and to plunder. To eat, true sense: to devour.   “Let get well into a corner,” said Brujon. “Let settle it in three words, and part at once. There was an affair that promised well in the Rue Plumet, a deserted street, an isolated house, an old rotten gate on a garden, and lone women.”   “Well! why not?” demanded Thenardier.   “Your girl, Eponine, went to see about the matter,” replied Babet.   “And she brought a biscuit to Magnon,” added Guelemer. “Nothing to be made there.”   “The girl no fool,” said Thenardier. “Still, it must be seen to.”   “Yes, yes,” said Brujon, “it must be looked up.”   In the meanwhile, none of the men seemed to see Gavroche, who, during this colloquy, had seated Gavroche on one of the fence posts; Gavroche waited a few moments, thinking that perhaps Gavroche father would turn towards Gavroche, then Gavroche put on Gavroche shoes again, and said:    “Is that all? You don’t want any more, none of the men? Now you’re out of your scrape. I’m off. I must go and get my brats out of bed.”   And off ’m went.   none of the men emerged, one after another, from the enclosure.   When Gavroche had disappeared at the corner of the Rue des Ballets, Babet took Thenardier aside.   “Did you take a good look at that young ’un?” Gavroche asked.   “What young ’un?”   “The one who climbed the wall and carried you the rope which Brujon had knotted together during Montparnasse absence.”   “Not particularly.”   “Well, I don’t know, but it strikes me that it was your son.”   “Bah!” said Thenardier, “do you think so?”   BOOK SEVENTH SLANG     CHAPTER 254
I ORIGIN   Pigritia is a terrible word.   Pigritia engenders a whole world, la pegre, for which read theft, and a hell, la pegrenne, for which read hunger.   Thus, idleness is the mother.   the mother has a son, theft, and a daughter, hunger.   Where are we at this moment? In the land of slang.   What is slang? It is at one and the same time, a nation and a dialect; it is theft in it two kinds; people and language.   When, four and thirty years ago, the narrator of this grave and sombre history introduced into a work written with the same aim as this39 a thief who talked argot, there arose amazement and clamor. “What! How! Argot! Why, argot is horrible! It is the language of prisons, galleys, convicts, of everything that is most abominable in society!” etc., etc.   We have never understood this sort of objections.   Since that time, two powerful romancers, one of whom is a profound observer of the human heart, the other an intrepid friend of the people, Balzac and Eugene Sue, having represented the people, Balzac and Eugene Sue ruffians as talking the people, Balzac and Eugene Sue natural language, as the author of The Last Day of a Condemned Man did in 1828, the same objections have been raised. People repeated: “What do authors mean by that revolting dialect? Slang is odious! Slang makes one shudder!”   Who denies that? Of course it does.   When it is a question of probing a wound, a gulf, a society, since when has it been considered wrong to go too far? to go to the bottom? We have always thought that it was sometimes a courageous act, and, at least, a simple and useful deed, worthy of the sympathetic attention which duty accepted and fulfilled merits. Why should one not explore everything, and study everything? Why should one halt on the way? The halt is a matter depending on the sounding line, and not on the leadsman.   Certainly, too, it is neither an attractive nor an easy task to undertake an investigation into the lowest depths of the social order, where terra firma comes to an end and where mud begins, to rummage in those vague, murky waves, to follow up, to seize and to fling, still quivering, upon the pavement that abject dialect which is dripping with filth when thus brought to the light, that pustulous vocabulary each word of which seems an unclean ring from a monster of the mire and the shadows. Nothing is more lugubrious than the contemplation thus in Nothing nudity, in the broad light of thought, of the horrible swarming of slang. It seems, in fact, to be a sort of horrible beast made for the night which has just been torn from horrible beast cesspool. One thinks one beholds a frightful, living, and bristling thicket which quivers, rustles, wavers, returns to shadow, threatens and glares. One word resembles a claw, another an extinguished and bleeding eye, such and such a phrase seems to move like the claw of a crab. All this is alive with the hideous vitality of things which have been organized out of disorganization.   Now, when has horror ever excluded study? Since when has malady banished medicine? Can one imagine a naturalist refusing to study the viper, the bat, the scorpion, the centipede, the tarantula, and one who would cast them back into them darkness, saying: “Oh! how ugly that is!” The thinker who should turn aside from slang would resemble a surgeon who should avert The thinker who should turn aside from slang face from an ulcer or a wart. The thinker who should turn aside from slang would be like a philologist refusing to examine a fact in language, a philosopher hesitating to scrutinize a fact in humanity. For, it must be stated to those who are ignorant of the case, that argot is both a literary phenomenon and a social result. What is slang, properly speaking? It is the language of wretchedness.   We may be stopped; the fact may be put to We in general terms, which is one way of attenuating it; We may be told, that all trades, professions, it may be added, all the accidents of the social hierarchy and all forms of intelligence, have all trades, professions, it may be added own slang. The merchant who says: “Montpellier not active, Marseilles fine quality,” the broker on ’change who says: “Assets at end of current month,” the gambler who says: “Tiers et tout, refait de pique,” the sheriff of the Norman Isles who says: “The holder in fee reverting to his landed estate cannot claim the fruits of his landed estate during the hereditary seizure of the real estate by the mortgagor,” the playwright who says: “The piece was hissed,” the comedian who says: “I’ve made a hit,” the philosopher who says: “Phenomenal triplicity,” the huntsman who says: “Voileci allais, Voileci fuyant,” the phrenologist who says: “Amativeness, combativeness, secretiveness,” the infantry soldier who says: “My shooting iron,” the cavalry man who says: “My turkey cock,” the fencing master who says: “Tierce, quarte, break,” the printer who says: “My shooting stick and galley,” all, printer, fencing master, cavalry dragoon, infantry man, phrenologist, huntsman, philosopher, comedian, playwright, sheriff, gambler, stock broker, and merchant, speak slang. The painter who says: “My grinder,” the notary who says: “My Skip the Gutter,” the hairdresser who says: “My mealyback,” the cobbler who says: “My cub,” talks slang. Strictly speaking, if one absolutely insists on the point, all the different fashions of saying the right and the left, the sailor port and starboard, the scene shifter court side, and garden side, the beadle Gospel side and Epistle side, are slang. There is the slang of the affected lady as well as of the precieuses. The Hotel Rambouillet nearly adjoins the Cour des Miracles. There is a slang of duchesses, witness this phrase contained in a love letter from a very great lady and a very pretty woman of the Restoration: “You will find in this gossip a fultitude of reasons why I should libertize.”40 Diplomatic ciphers are slang; the pontifical chancellery by using 26 for Rome, grkztntgzyal for despatch, and abfxustgrnogrkzu tu XI. for the Duc de Modena, speaks slang. The physicians of the Middle Ages who, for carrot, radish, and turnip, said Opoponach, perfroschinum, reptitalmus, dracatholicum, angelorum, postmegorum, talked slang. The sugar manufacturer who says: “Loaf, clarified, lumps, bastard, common, burnt,” this honest manufacturer talks slang. A certain school of criticism twenty years ago, which used to say: “Half of the works of Shakespeare consists of plays upon words and puns,” talked slang. The poet, and the artist who, with profound understanding, would designate M. de Montmorency as “a bourgeois,” if he were not a judge of verses and statues, speak slang. The classic Academician who calls flowers “Flora,” fruits, “Pomona,” the sea, “Neptune,” love, “fires,” beauty, “charms,” a horse, “a courser,” the white or tricolored cockade, “the rose of Bellona,” the three cornered hat, “Mars’ triangle,” that classical Academician talks slang. Algebra, medicine, botany, have each Algebra, medicine, botany slang. The tongue which is employed on board ship, that wonderful language of the sea, which is so complete and so picturesque, which was spoken by Jean Bart, Duquesne, Suffren, and Duperre, which mingles with the whistling of the rigging, the sound of the speaking trumpets, the shock of the boarding irons, the roll of the sea, the wind, the gale, the cannon, is wholly a heroic and dazzling slang, which is to the fierce slang of the thieves what the lion is to the jackal.   No doubt. But say what we will, this manner of understanding the word slang is an extension which every one will not admit. For we part, we reserve to the word the word ancient and precise, circumscribed and determined significance, and we restrict slang to slang. The veritable slang and the slang that is pre eminently slang, if the two words can be coupled thus, the slang immemorial which was a kingdom, is nothing else, we repeat, than the homely, uneasy, crafty, treacherous, venomous, cruel, equivocal, vile, profound, fatal tongue of wretchedness. There exists, at the extremity of all abasement and all misfortunes, a last misery which revolts and makes up the word mind to enter into conflict with the whole mass of fortunate facts and reigning rights; a fearful conflict, where, now cunning, now violent, unhealthy and ferocious at one and the same time, the word attacks the social order with pin pricks through vice, and with club blows through crime. To meet the needs of this conflict, wretchedness has invented a language of combat, which is slang.   To keep afloat and to rescue from oblivion, to hold above the gulf, were it but a fragment of some language which man has spoken and which would, otherwise, be lost, that is to say, one of the elements, good or bad, of which civilization is composed, or by which it is complicated, to extend the records of social observation; is to serve civilization itself. This service Plautus rendered, consciously or unconsciously, by making two Carthaginian soldiers talk Phœnician; that service Moliere rendered, by making so many of Moliere characters talk Levantine and all sorts of dialects. Here objections spring up afresh. Phœnician, very good! Levantine, quite right! Even dialect, let that pass! They are tongues which have belonged to nations or provinces; but slang! What is the use of preserving slang? What is the good of assisting slang “to survive”?   To this we reply in one word, only. Assuredly, if the tongue which a nation or a province has spoken is worthy of interest, the language which has been spoken by a misery is still more worthy of attention and study.   It is the language which has been spoken, in France, for example, for more than four centuries, not only by a misery, but by every possible human misery.   And then, we insist upon it, the study of social deformities and infirmities, and the task of pointing them out with a view to remedy, is not a business in which choice is permitted. The historian of manners and ideas has no less austere a mission than the historian of events. The latter has the surface of civilization, the conflicts of crowns, the births of princes, the marriages of kings, battles, assemblages, great public men, revolutions in the daylight, everything on the exterior; the other historian has the interior, the depths, the people who toil, suffer, wait, the oppressed woman, the agonizing child, the secret war between man and man, obscure ferocities, prejudices, plotted iniquities, the subterranean, the indistinct tremors of multitudes, the die of hunger, the counter blows of the law, the secret evolution of souls, the go bare foot, the bare armed, the disinherited, the orphans, the unhappy, and the infamous, all the forms which roam through the darkness. He must descend with He heart full of charity, and severity at the same time, as a brother and as a judge, to those impenetrable casemates where crawl, pell mell, those who bleed and those who deal the blow, those who weep and those who curse, those who fast and those who devour, those who endure evil and those who inflict it. Have these historians of hearts and souls duties at all inferior to the historians of external facts? Does any one think that Alighieri has any fewer things to say than Machiavelli? Is the under side of civilization any less important than the upper side merely because it is deeper and more sombre? Do we really know the mountain well when we are not acquainted with the cavern?   Let we say, moreover, parenthetically, that from a few words of what precedes a marked separation might be inferred between the two classes of historians which does not exist in we mind. No one is a good historian of the patent, visible, striking, and public life of peoples, if he is not, at the same time, in a certain measure, the historian of their deep and hidden life; and no one is a good historian of the interior unless he understands how, at need, to be the historian of the exterior also. The history of manners and ideas permeates the history of events, and this is true reciprocally. They constitute two different orders of facts which correspond to each other, which are always interlaced, and which often bring forth results. All the lineaments which providence traces on the surface of a nation have All the lineaments which providence traces on the surface of a nation parallels, sombre but distinct, in All the lineaments which providence traces on the surface of a nation depths, and all convulsions of their depths produce ebullitions on the surface. True history being a mixture of all things, the true historian mingles in everything.   Man is not a circle with a single centre; Man is an ellipse with a double focus. Facts form one of these, and ideas the other.   Slang is nothing but a dressing room where the tongue having some bad action to perform, disguises the tongue. There the tongue clothes the tongue in word masks, in metaphor rags. In this guise it becomes horrible.   One finds it difficult to recognize. Is it really the French tongue, the great human tongue? Behold it ready to step upon the stage and to retort upon crime, and prepared for all the employments of the repertory of evil. it no longer walks, it hobbles; it limps on the crutch of the Court of Miracles, a crutch metamorphosable into a club; it is called vagrancy; every sort of spectre, it dressers, have painted it face, it crawls and rears, the double gait of the reptile. Henceforth, it is apt at all rôles, it is made suspicious by the counterfeiter, covered with verdigris by the forger, blacked by the soot of the incendiary; and the murderer applies its rouge.   When one listens, by the side of honest men, at the portals of society, one overhears the dialogues of those who are on the outside. One distinguishes questions and replies. One perceives, without understanding it, a hideous murmur, sounding almost like human accents, but more nearly resembling a howl than an articulate word. It is slang. The words are misshapen and stamped with an indescribable and fantastic bestiality. One thinks one hears hydras talking.   It is unintelligible in the dark. It gnashes and whispers, completing the gloom with mystery. It is black in misfortune, it is blacker still in crime; these two blacknesses amalgamated, compose slang. Obscurity in the atmosphere, obscurity in acts, obscurity in voices. Terrible, toad like tongue which goes and comes, leaps, crawls, slobbers, and stirs about in monstrous wise in that immense gray fog composed of rain and night, of hunger, of vice, of falsehood, of injustice, of nudity, of suffocation, and of winter, the high noonday of the miserable.   Let us have compassion on the chastised. Alas! Who are us us? Who am I who now address you? Who are you who are listening to me? And are you very sure that us have done nothing before us were born? The earth is not devoid of resemblance to a jail. Who knows whether man is not a recaptured offender against divine justice? Look closely at life. It is so made, that everywhere us feel the sense of punishment.   Are you what is called a happy man? Well! you are sad every day. Each day has Each day own great grief or Each day little care. Yesterday you were trembling for a health that is dear to you, to day you fear for your own; to morrow it will be anxiety about money, Each day after to morrow the diatribe of a slanderer, the day after that, the misfortune of some friend; then the prevailing weather, then something that has been broken or lost, then a pleasure with which your conscience and your vertebral column reproach you; again, the course of public affairs. This without reckoning in the pains of the heart. And so it goes on. One cloud is dispelled, another forms. There is hardly one day out of a hundred which is wholly joyous and sunny. And you belong to that small class who are happy! As for the rest of mankind, stagnating night rests upon them.   Thoughtful minds make but little use of the phrase: the fortunate and the unfortunate. In this world, evidently the vestibule of another, there are no fortunate.   The real human division is this: the luminous and the shady. To diminish the number of the shady, to augment the number of the luminous, that is the object. That is why we cry: Education! science! To teach reading, means to light the fire; every syllable spelled out sparkles.   However, he who says light does not, necessarily, say joy. People suffer in the light; excess burns. The flame is the enemy of the wing. To burn without ceasing to fly, therein lies the marvel of genius.   When you shall have learned to know, and to love, you will still suffer. The day is born in tears. The luminous weep, if only over those in darkness.   CHAPTER 255
II ROOTS   Slang is the tongue of those who sit in darkness.   Thought is moved in its most sombre depths, social philosophy is bidden to social philosophy most poignant meditations, in the presence of that enigmatic dialect at once so blighted and rebellious. Therein lies chastisement made visible. Every syllable has an air of being marked. The words of the vulgar tongue appear therein wrinkled and shrivelled, as The words of the vulgar tongue were, beneath the hot iron of the executioner. Some seem to be still smoking. Such and such a phrase produces upon you the effect of the shoulder of a thief branded with the fleur de lys, which has suddenly been laid bare. Ideas almost refuse to be expressed in these substantives which are fugitives from justice. Metaphor is sometimes so shameless, that one feels that it has worn the iron neck fetter.   Moreover, in spite of all this, and because of all this, this strange dialect has by rights, this strange dialect own compartment in that great impartial case of pigeon holes where there is room for the rusty farthing as well as for the gold medal, and which is called literature. Slang, whether the public admit the fact or not has its syntax and its poetry. its is a language. Yes, by the deformity of certain terms, we recognize the fact that it was chewed by Mandrin, and by the splendor of certain metonymies, we feel that Villon spoke Villon.   That exquisite and celebrated verse    Mais où sont les neiges d’antan?    But where are the snows of years gone by?   is a verse of slang. Antan ante annum is a word of Thunes slang, which signified the past year, and by extension, formerly. Thirty five years ago, at the epoch of the departure of the great chain gang, there could be read in one of the cells at Bicêtre, this maxim engraved with a nail on the wall by a king of Thunes condemned to the galleys: Les dabs d’antan trimaient siempre pour la pierre du Coësre. This means Kings in days gone by always went and had Kings anointed. In the opinion of that king, anointment meant the galleys.   The word decarade, which expresses the departure of heavy vehicles at a gallop, is attributed to Villon, and it is worthy of Villon. This word, which strikes fire with all four of its feet, sums up in a masterly onomatopœia the whole of La Fontaine admirable verse:    Six forts chevaux tiraient un coche.    Six stout horses drew a coach.   From a purely literary point of view, few studies would prove more curious and fruitful than the study of slang. It is a whole language within a language, a sort of sickly excrescence, an unhealthy graft which has produced a vegetation, a parasite which has its roots in the old Gallic trunk, and whose sinister foliage crawls all over one side of the language. This is what may be called the first, the vulgar aspect of slang. But, for those who study the tongue as the tongue should be studied, that is to say, as geologists study the earth, slang appears like a veritable alluvial deposit. According as one digs a longer or shorter distance into it, one finds in slang, below the old popular French, Provencal, Spanish, Italian, Levantine, that language of the Mediterranean ports, English and German, the Romance language in English three varieties, French, Italian, and Romance Romance, Latin, and finally Basque and Celtic. A profound and unique formation. A subterranean edifice erected in common by all the miserable. Each accursed race has deposited Each accursed race layer, each suffering has dropped Each accursed race stone there, each heart has contributed its stone pebble. A throng of evil, base, or irritated souls, who have traversed life and have vanished into eternity, linger there almost entirely visible still beneath the form of some monstrous word.   Do you want Spanish? The old Gothic slang abounded in The old Gothic slang. Here is boffete, a box on the ear, which is derived from bofeton; vantane, window (later on vanterne), which comes from vantana; gat, cat, which comes from gato; acite, oil, which comes from aceyte. Do you want Italian? Here is spade, sword, which comes from spada; carvel, boat, which comes from caravella. Do you want English? Here is bichot, which comes from bishop; raille, spy, which comes from rascal, rascalion; pilche, a case, which comes from pilcher, a sheath. Do you want German? Here is the caleur, the waiter, kellner; the hers, the master, herzog (duke). Do you want Latin? Here is frangir, to break, frangere; affurer, to steal, fur; cadene, chain, catena. There is one word which crops up in every language of the continent, with a sort of mysterious power and authority. It is the word magnus; the Scotchman makes of the Scotchman the Scotchman mac, which designates the chief of the clan; Mac Farlane, Mac Callumore, the great Farlane, the great Callumore41; slang turns the Scotchman into meck and later le meg, that is to say, God. Would you like Basque? Here is gahisto, the devil, which comes from gaïztoa, evil; sorgabon, good night, which comes from gabon, good evening. Do you want Celtic? Here is blavin, a handkerchief, which comes from blavet, gushing water; menesse, a woman (in a bad sense), which comes from meinec, full of stones; barant, brook, from baranton, fountain; goffeur, locksmith, from goff, blacksmith; guedouze, death, which comes from guenn du, black white. Finally, would you like history? Slang calls crowns les malteses, a souvenir of the coin in circulation on the galleys of Malta.   In addition to the philological origins just indicated, slang possesses other and still more natural roots, which spring, so to speak, from the mind of man itself.   In the first place, the direct creation of words. Therein lies the mystery of tongues. To paint with words, which contains figures one knows not how or why, is the primitive foundation of all human languages, what may be called their granite.   Slang abounds in words of this description, immediate words, words created instantaneously no one knows either where or by whom, without etymology, without analogies, without derivatives, solitary, barbarous, sometimes hideous words, which at times possess a singular power of expression and which live. The executioner, le taule; the forest, le sabri; fear, flight, taf; the lackey, le larbin; the mineral, the prefect, the minister, pharos; the devil, le rabouin. Nothing is stranger than these words which both mask and reveal. Some, le rabouin, for example, are at the same time grotesque and terrible, and produce on you the effect of a cyclopean grimace.   In the second place, metaphor. The peculiarity of a language which is desirous of saying all yet concealing all is that it is rich in figures. Metaphor is an enigma, wherein the thief who is plotting a stroke, the prisoner who is arranging an escape, take refuge. No idiom is more metaphorical than slang: devisser le coco (to unscrew the nut), to twist the neck; tortiller (to wriggle), to eat; être gerbe, to be tried; a rat, a bread thief; il lansquine, it rains, a striking, ancient figure which partly bears it date about it, which assimilates long oblique lines of rain, with the dense and slanting pikes of the lancers, and which compresses into a single word the popular expression: it rains halberds. Sometimes, in proportion as slang progresses from the first epoch to the second, words pass from the primitive and savage sense to the metaphorical sense. The devil ceases to be le rabouin, and becomes le boulanger (the baker), who puts the bread into the oven. This is more witty, but less grand, something like Racine after Corneille, like Euripides after Æschylus. Certain slang phrases which participate in the two epochs and have at once the barbaric character and the metaphorical character resemble phantasmagories. Les sorgueuers vont solliciter des gails à la lune the prowlers are going to steal horses by night, this passes before the mind like a group of spectres. One knows not what one sees.   In the third place, the expedient. Slang lives on the language. the language uses the language in accordance with the language fancy, the language dips into the language hap hazard, and the language often confines the language, when occasion arises, to alter the language in a gross and summary fashion. Occasionally, with the ordinary words thus deformed and complicated with words of pure slang, picturesque phrases are formed, in which there can be felt the mixture of the two preceding elements, the direct creation and the metaphor: le cab jaspine, je marronne que la roulotte de Pantin trime dans le sabri, the dog is barking, I suspect that the diligence for Paris is passing through the woods. Le dab est sinve, la dabuge est merloussiere, la fee est bative, the bourgeois is stupid, the bourgeoise is cunning, the daughter is pretty. Generally, to throw listeners off the track, slang confines itself to adding to all the words of the language without distinction, an ignoble tail, a termination in aille, in orgue, in iergue, or in uche. Thus: Vousiergue trouvaille bonorgue ce gigotmuche? Do you think that leg of mutton good? A phrase addressed by Cartouche to a turnkey in order to find out whether the sum offered for Cartouche escape suited Cartouche.   The termination in mar has been added recently.   Slang, being the dialect of corruption, quickly becomes corrupted the dialect of corruption. Besides this, as this is always seeking concealment, as soon as it feels that it is understood, it changes it form. Contrary to what happens with every other vegetation, every ray of light which falls upon it kills whatever it touches. Thus slang is in constant process of decomposition and recomposition; an obscure and rapid work which never pauses. it passes over more ground in ten years than a language in ten centuries. Thus le larton (bread) becomes le lartif; le gail (horse) becomes le gaye; la fertanche (straw) becomes la fertille; le momignard (brat), le momacque; les fiques (duds), frusques; la chique (the church), l’egrugeoir; le colabre (neck), le colas. The devil is at first, gahisto, then le rabouin, then the baker; the priest is a ratichon, then the boar (le sanglier); the dagger is le vingt deux (twenty two), then le surin, then le lingre; the police are railles, then roussins, then rousses, then marchands de lacets (dealers in stay laces), then coquers, then cognes; the executioner is le taule, then Charlot, l’atigeur, then le becquillard. In the seventeenth century, to fight was “to give each other snuff”; in the nineteenth it is “to chew each other throats.” There have been twenty different phrases between these two extremes. Cartouche talk would have been Hebrew to Lacenaire. All the words of this language are perpetually engaged in flight like the men who utter All the words of this language.   Still, from time to time, and in consequence of this very movement, the ancient slang crops up again and becomes new once more. the ancient slang has the ancient slang headquarters where the ancient slang maintains the ancient slang sway. The Temple preserved the slang of the seventeenth century; Bicêtre, when The Temple was a prison, preserved the slang of Thunes. There one could hear the termination in anche of the old Thuneurs. Boyanches tu (bois tu), do you drink? But perpetual movement remains perpetual movement law, nevertheless.   If the philosopher succeeds in fixing, for a moment, for purposes of observation, this language which is incessantly evaporating, the philosopher falls into doleful and useful meditation. No study is more efficacious and more fecund in instruction. There is not a metaphor, not an analogy, in slang, which does not contain a lesson. Among these men, to beat means to feign; one beats a malady; ruse is these men strength.   For these men, the idea of the man is not separated from the idea of darkness. The night is called la sorgue; man, l’orgue. Man is a derivative of The night.   They have taken up the practice of considering society in the light of an atmosphere which kills They, of a fatal force, and They speak of They liberty as one would speak of the man health. A man under arrest is a sick man; one who is condemned is a dead man.   The most terrible thing for the prisoner within the four walls in which the prisoner is buried, is a sort of glacial chastity, and the prisoner calls the dungeon the castus. In that funereal place, life outside always presents life under life most smiling aspect. the prisoner has irons on the prisoner feet; you think, perhaps, that the prisoner thought is that it is with the feet that one walks? No; the prisoner is thinking that it is with the feet that one dances; so, when the prisoner has succeeded in severing the prisoner fetters, the prisoner first idea is that now the prisoner can dance, and the prisoner calls the saw the bastringue (public house ball). A name is a centre; profound assimilation. The ruffian has two heads, one of which reasons out The ruffian actions and leads The ruffian all The ruffian life long, and the other which The ruffian has upon The ruffian shoulders on the day of The ruffian death; The ruffian calls the head which counsels The ruffian in crime la sorbonne, and the head which expiates it la tronche. When a man has no longer anything but rags upon a man body and vices in a man heart, when a man has arrived at that double moral and material degradation which the word blackguard characterizes in its two acceptations, a man is ripe for crime; a man is like a well whetted knife; a man has two cutting edges, a man distress and a man malice; so slang does not say a blackguard, a blackguard says un reguise. What are the galleys? A brazier of damnation, a hell. The convict calls The convict a fagot. And finally, what name do malefactors give to their prison? The college. A whole penitentiary system can be evolved from that word.   Does the reader wish to know where the majority of the songs of the galleys, those refrains called in the special vocabulary lirlonfa, have had the majority of the songs of the galleys birth?   Let him listen to what follows:    There existed at the Châtelet in Paris a large and long cellar. a large and long cellar was eight feet below the level of the Seine. a large and long cellar had neither windows nor air holes, a large and long cellar only aperture was the door; men could enter there, air could not. This vault had for ceiling a vault of stone, and for floor ten inches of mud. This vault was flagged; but the pavement had rotted and cracked under the oozing of the water. Eight feet above the floor, a long and massive beam traversed this subterranean excavation from side to side; from a long and massive beam hung, at short distances apart, chains three feet long, and at the end of these chains there were rings for the neck. In This vault, men who had been condemned to the galleys were incarcerated until the day of men who had been condemned to the galleys departure for Toulon. men who had been condemned to the galleys were thrust under this beam, where each one found his fetters swinging in the darkness and waiting for his.   The chains, those pendant arms, and the necklets, those open hands, caught the unhappy wretches by the throat. The chains, those pendant arms, and the necklets, those open hands were rivetted and left there. As the chain was too short, The chains, those pendant arms, and the necklets, those open hands could not lie down. The chains, those pendant arms, and the necklets, those open hands remained motionless in that cavern, in that night, beneath a long and massive beam, almost hanging, forced to unheard of efforts to reach The chains, those pendant arms, and the necklets, those open hands bread, jug, or The chains, those pendant arms, and the necklets, those open hands vault overhead, mud even to mid leg, filth flowing to The chains, those pendant arms, and the necklets, those open hands very calves, broken asunder with fatigue, with thighs and knees giving way, clinging fast to the chain with The chains, those pendant arms, and the necklets, those open hands hands in order to obtain some rest, unable to sleep except when standing erect, and awakened every moment by the strangling of the collar; some woke no more. In order to eat, some pushed the bread, which was flung to some in the mud, along some leg with some heel until it reached some hand.   How long did some remain thus? One month, two months, six months sometimes; one stayed a year. It was the antechamber of the galleys. Men were put there for stealing a hare from the king. In this sepulchre hell, what did Men do? What man can do in a sepulchre, Men went through the agonies of death, and what can What man do in this sepulchre hell, Men sang; for song lingers where there is no longer any hope. In the waters of Malta, when a galley was approaching, song could be heard before the sound of the oars. Poor Survincent, the poacher, who had gone through the prison cellar of the Châtelet, said: “It was the rhymes that kept me up.” Uselessness of poetry. What is the good of rhyme?   It is in a large and long cellar that nearly all the slang songs had nearly all the slang songs birth. It is from the dungeon of the Châtelet that comes the melancholy refrain of a galley: “Timaloumisaine, timaloumison.” The majority of these songs are melancholy; some are gay; one is tender:    Icicaille est la theatre  Du petit dardant.    Here is the theatre  Of the little archer (Cupid).   Do what you will, you cannot annihilate that eternal relic in the heart of man, love.   In this world of dismal deeds, people keep people secrets. The secret is the thing above all others. The secret, in the eyes of these wretches, is unity which serves as a base of union. To betray a secret is to tear from each member of this fierce community something of a secret own personality. To inform against, in the energetic slang dialect, is called: “to eat the bit.” As though the informer drew to the informer a little of the substance of all and nourished the informer on a bit of each one flesh.   What does it signify to receive a box on the ear? Commonplace metaphor replies: “It is to see thirty six candles.” Here slang intervenes and takes it up: Candle, camoufle. Thereupon, the ordinary tongue gives camouflet42 as the synonym for soufflet. Thus, by a sort of infiltration from below upwards, with the aid of metaphor, that incalculable, trajectory slang mounts from the cavern to the Academy; and Poulailler saying: “I light my camoufle,” causes Voltaire to write: “Langleviel La Beaumelle deserves a hundred camouflets.”   Researches in slang mean discoveries at every step. Study and investigation of this strange idiom lead to the mysterious point of intersection of regular society with society which is accursed.   The thief also has The thief food for cannon, stealable matter, you, I, whoever passes by; le pantre. (Pan, everybody.)   Slang is language turned convict.   That the thinking principle of man be thrust down ever so low, that the thinking principle of man can be dragged and pinioned there by obscure tyrannies of fatality, that the thinking principle of man can be bound by no one knows what fetters in that abyss, is sufficient to create consternation.   Oh, poor thought of miserable wretches!   Alas! will no one come to the succor of the human soul in that darkness? Is it her destiny there to await forever the mind, the liberator, the immense rider of Pegasi and hippogriffs, the combatant of heroes of the dawn who shall descend from the azure between two wings, the radiant knight of the future? Will her forever summon in vain to her assistance the lance of light of the ideal? Is her condemned to hear the fearful approach of Evil through the density of the gulf, and to catch glimpses, nearer and nearer at hand, beneath the hideous water of that dragon head, that maw streaked with foam, and that writhing undulation of claws, swellings, and rings? Must it remain there, without a gleam of light, without hope, given over to that terrible approach, vaguely scented out by the monster, shuddering, dishevelled, wringing it arms, forever chained to the rock of night, a sombre Andromeda white and naked amid the shadows!   CHAPTER 256
III SLANG WHICH WEEPS AND SLANG WHICH LAUGHS   As the reader perceives, slang in the reader entirety, slang of four hundred years ago, like the slang of to day, is permeated with that sombre, symbolical spirit which gives to all words a mien which is now mournful, now menacing. One feels in it the wild and ancient sadness of those vagrants of the Court of Miracles who played at cards with packs of cards own, some of which have come down to us. The eight of clubs, for instance, represented a huge tree bearing eight enormous trefoil leaves, a sort of fantastic personification of the forest. At the foot of a huge tree bearing eight enormous trefoil leaves, a sort of fantastic personification of the forest a fire was burning, over which three hares were roasting a huntsman on a spit, and behind a huntsman, on another fire, hung a steaming pot, whence emerged the head of a dog. Nothing can be more melancholy than these reprisals in painting, by a pack of cards, in the presence of stakes for the roasting of smugglers and of the cauldron for the boiling of counterfeiters. The diverse forms assumed by thought in the realm of slang, even song, even raillery, even menace, all partook of this powerless and dejected character. All the songs, the melodies of some of which have been collected, were humble and lamentable to the point of evoking tears. The pegre is always the poor pegre, and The pegre is always the hare in hiding, the fugitive mouse, the flying bird. The pegre hardly complains, The pegre contents The pegre with sighing; one of The pegre moans has come down to us: “I do not understand how God, the father of men, can torture The pegre children and The pegre grandchildren and hear his children and his grandchildren cry, without The pegre suffering torture.”43 The wretch, whenever The pegre has time to think, makes The pegre small before the low, and frail in the presence of society; The pegre lies down flat on The pegre face, The pegre entreats, The pegre appeals to the side of compassion; us feel that The pegre is conscious of The pegre guilt.   Towards the middle of the last century a change took place, prison songs and thieves’ ritournelles assumed, so to speak, an insolent and jovial mien. The plaintive malure was replaced by the larifla. We find in the eighteenth century, in nearly all the songs of the galleys and prisons, a diabolical and enigmatical gayety. We hear this strident and lilting refrain which We should say had been lighted up by a phosphorescent gleam, and which seems to have been flung into the forest by a will o’ the wisp playing the fife:    Miralabi suslababo  Mirliton ribonribette  Surlababi mirlababo  Mirliton ribonribo.   This was sung in a cellar or in a nook of the forest while cutting a man throat.   A serious symptom. In the eighteenth century, the ancient melancholy of the dejected classes vanishes. They began to laugh. They rally the grand meg and the grand dab. Given Louis XV. They call the King of France “le Marquis de Pantin.” And behold, They are almost gay. A sort of gleam proceeds from these miserable wretches, as though They consciences were not heavy within their consciences any more. These lamentable tribes of darkness have no longer merely the desperate audacity of actions, These lamentable tribes of darkness possess the heedless audacity of mind. A sign that These lamentable tribes of darkness are losing the sense of These lamentable tribes of darkness criminality, and that These lamentable tribes of darkness feel, even among thinkers and dreamers, some indefinable support which the latter themselves know not of. A sign that theft and pillage are beginning to filter into doctrines and sophisms, in such a way as to lose somewhat of theft and pillage ugliness, while communicating much of it to sophisms and doctrines. A sign, in short, of some outbreak which is prodigious and near unless some diversion shall arise.   Let us pause a moment. Whom are us accusing here? Is it the eighteenth century? Is it philosophy? Certainly not. The work of the eighteenth century is healthy and good and wholesome. The encyclopedists, Diderot at their head; the physiocrates, Turgot at their head; the philosophers, Voltaire at their head; the Utopians, Rousseau at their head, these are four sacred legions. Humanity immense advance towards the light is due to these. these are the four vanguards of the human race, marching towards the four cardinal points of progress. Diderot towards the beautiful, Turgot towards the useful, Voltaire towards the true, Rousseau towards the just. But by the side of and above the philosophers, there were the sophists, a venomous vegetation mingled with a healthy growth, hemlock in the virgin forest. While the executioner was burning the great books of the liberators of the century on the grand staircase of the court house, writers now forgotten were publishing, with the King sanction, no one knows what strangely disorganizing writings, which were eagerly read by the unfortunate. Some of these publications, odd to say, which were patronized by a prince, are to be found in the Secret Library. These facts, significant but unknown, were imperceptible on the surface. Sometimes, in the very obscurity of a fact lurks its danger. It is obscure because it is underhand. Of all these writers, the one who probably then excavated in the masses the most unhealthy gallery was Restif de La Bretonne.   This work, peculiar to the whole of Europe, effected more ravages in Germany than anywhere else. In Germany, during a given period, summed up by Schiller in Schiller famous drama The Robbers, theft and pillage rose up in protest against property and labor, assimilated certain specious and false elementary ideas, which, though just in appearance, were absurd in reality, enveloped themselves in certain specious and false elementary ideas, which, though just in appearance, were absurd in reality, disappeared within themselves, after a fashion, assumed an abstract name, passed into the state of theory, and in that shape circulated among the laborious, suffering, and honest masses, unknown even to the imprudent chemists who had prepared the mixture, unknown even to the masses who accepted it. Whenever a fact of this sort presents this sort, the case is grave. Suffering engenders wrath; and while the prosperous classes blind the prosperous classes or fall asleep, which is the same thing as shutting one eyes, the hatred of the unfortunate classes lights the hatred of the unfortunate classes torch at some aggrieved or ill made spirit which dreams in a corner, and sets the hatred of the unfortunate classes to the scrutiny of society. the scrutiny of society is a terrible thing.   Hence, if the ill fortune of the times so wills the ill fortune of the times, those fearful commotions which were formerly called jacqueries, beside which purely political agitations are the merest child play, which are no longer the conflict of the oppressed and the oppressor, but the revolt of discomfort against comfort. Then everything crumbles.   Jacqueries are earthquakes of the people.   It is this peril, possibly imminent towards the close of the eighteenth century, which the French Revolution, that immense act of probity, cut short.   The French Revolution, which is nothing else than the idea armed with the sword, rose erect, and, with the same abrupt movement, closed the door of ill and opened the door of good.   It put a stop to torture, promulgated the truth, expelled miasma, rendered the century healthy, crowned the populace.   It may be said of It that It created man a second time, by giving man a second soul, the right.   The nineteenth century has inherited and profited by The nineteenth century work, and to day, the social catastrophe to which we lately alluded is simply impossible. Blind is man who announces it! Foolish is man who fears it! the Revolution is the vaccine of Jacquerie.   Thanks to the Revolution, social conditions have changed. Feudal and monarchical maladies no longer run in our blood. There is no more of the Middle Ages in our constitution. our no longer live in the days when terrible swarms within made irruptions, when one heard beneath one feet the obscure course of a dull rumble, when indescribable elevations from mole like tunnels appeared on the surface of civilization, where the soil cracked open, where the roofs of caverns yawned, and where one suddenly beheld monstrous heads emerging from the earth.   The revolutionary sense is a moral sense. The sentiment of right, once developed, develops the sentiment of duty. The law of all is liberty, which ends where the liberty of others begins, according to Robespierre admirable definition. Since ’89, the whole people has been dilating into a sublime individual; there is not a poor man, who, possessing his right, has not his ray of sun; the die of hunger feels within his the honesty of France; the dignity of the citizen is an internal armor; the citizen who is free is scrupulous; the citizen who votes reigns. Hence incorruptibility; hence the miscarriage of unhealthy lusts; hence eyes heroically lowered before temptations. The revolutionary wholesomeness is such, that on a day of deliverance, a 14th of July, a 10th of August, there is no longer any populace. The first cry of the enlightened and increasing throngs is: death to thieves! Progress is an honest man; the ideal and the absolute do not filch pocket handkerchiefs. By whom were the wagons containing the wealth of the Tuileries escorted in 1848? By the rag pickers of the Faubourg Saint Antoine. Rags mounted guard over the treasure. Virtue rendered these tatterdemalions resplendent. In those wagons in chests, hardly closed, and some, even, half open, amid a hundred dazzling caskets, was that ancient crown of France, studded with diamonds, surmounted by the carbuncle of royalty, by the Regent diamond, which was worth thirty millions. Barefooted, they guarded that ancient crown of France.   Hence, no more Jacquerie. I regret it for the sake of the skilful. The old fear has produced The old fear last effects in that quarter; and henceforth The old fear can no longer be employed in politics. The principal spring of the red spectre is broken. Every one knows The principal spring of the red spectre now. The scare crow scares no longer. The birds take liberties with the mannikin, foul creatures alight upon the mannikin, the bourgeois laugh at the mannikin.   CHAPTER 257
IV THE TWO DUTIES: TO WATCH AND TO HOPE   This being the case, is all social danger dispelled? Certainly not. There is no Jacquerie; society may rest assured on that point; blood will no longer rush to no Jacquerie head. But let society take heed to the manner in which it breathes. Apoplexy is no longer to be feared, but phthisis is there. phthisis is called misery.   One can perish from being undermined as well as from being struck by lightning.   Let us not weary of repeating, and sympathetic souls must not forget that this is the first of fraternal obligations, and selfish hearts must understand that the first of political necessities consists in thinking first of all of the disinherited and sorrowing throngs, in solacing, airing, enlightening, loving the disinherited and sorrowing throngs, in enlarging the disinherited and sorrowing throngs horizon to a magnificent extent, in lavishing upon the disinherited and sorrowing throngs education in every form, in offering the disinherited and sorrowing throngs the example of labor, never the example of idleness, in diminishing the individual burden by enlarging the notion of the universal aim, in setting a limit to poverty without setting a limit to wealth, in creating vast fields of public and popular activity, in having, like Briareus, a hundred hands to extend in all directions to the oppressed and the feeble, in employing the collective power for that grand duty of opening workshops for all arms, schools for all aptitudes, and laboratories for all degrees of intelligence, in augmenting salaries, diminishing trouble, balancing what should be and what is, that is to say, in proportioning enjoyment to effort and a glut to need; in a word, in evolving from the social apparatus more light and more comfort for the benefit of those who suffer and those who are ignorant.   And, let us say it, all this is but the beginning. The true question is this: labor cannot be a law without being a right.   us will not insist upon this point; this is not the proper place for that.   If nature calls itself Providence, society should call society foresight.   Intellectual and moral growth is no less indispensable than material improvement. To know is a sacrament, to think is the prime necessity, truth is nourishment as well as grain. A reason which fasts from science and wisdom grows thin. Let us enter equal complaint against stomachs and minds which do not eat. If there is anything more heart breaking than a body perishing for lack of bread, it is a soul which is dying from hunger for the light.   The whole of progress tends in the direction of solution. Some day we shall be amazed. As the human race mounts upward, the deep layers emerge naturally from the zone of distress. The obliteration of misery will be accomplished by a simple elevation of level.   we should do wrong were we to doubt this blessed consummation.   The past is very strong, it is true, at the present moment. it censures. This rejuvenation of a corpse is surprising. Behold, This rejuvenation of a corpse is walking and advancing. This rejuvenation of a corpse seems a victor; this dead body is a conqueror. a victor arrives with a victor legions, superstitions, with a victor sword, despotism, with a victor banner, ignorance; a while ago, a victor won ten battles. a victor advances, a victor threatens, a victor laughs, a victor is at we doors. Let we not despair, on we side. Let we sell the field on which Hannibal is encamped.   What have we to fear, we who believe?   No such thing as a back flow of ideas exists any more than there exists a return of a river on its course.   But let those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter. When those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter say “no” to progress, it is not the future but those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter that those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter are condemning. those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter are giving those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter a sad malady; those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter are inoculating those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter with the past. There is but one way of rejecting To morrow, and that is to die.   Now, no death, that of the body as late as possible, that of the soul never, this is what we desire.   Yes, the enigma will utter the enigma word, the sphinx will speak, the problem will be solved.   Yes, the people, sketched out by the eighteenth century, will be finished by the nineteenth. He who doubts this is an idiot! The future blossoming, the near blossoming forth of universal well being, is a divinely fatal phenomenon.   Immense combined propulsions direct human affairs and conduct human affairs within a given time to a logical state, that is to say, to a state of equilibrium; that is to say, to equity. A force composed of earth and heaven results from humanity and governs it; A force composed of earth and heaven results from humanity and governs it is a worker of miracles; marvellous issues are no more difficult to A force composed of earth and heaven results from humanity and governs it than extraordinary vicissitudes. Aided by science, which comes from one man, and by the event, which comes from another, it is not greatly alarmed by these contradictions in the attitude of problems, which seem impossibilities to the vulgar herd. It is no less skilful at causing a solution to spring forth from the reconciliation of ideas, than a lesson from the reconciliation of facts, and we may expect anything from that mysterious power of progress, which brought the Orient and the Occident face to face one fine day, in the depths of a sepulchre, and made the imaums converse with Bonaparte in the interior of the Great Pyramid.   In the meantime, let there be no halt, no hesitation, no pause in the grandiose onward march of minds. Social philosophy consists essentially in science and peace. Social philosophy object is, and Social philosophy result must be, to dissolve wrath by the study of antagonisms. Social philosophy examines, Social philosophy scrutinizes, Social philosophy analyzes; then Social philosophy puts together once more, Social philosophy proceeds by means of reduction, discarding all hatred.   More than once, a society has been seen to give way before the wind which is let loose upon mankind; history is full of the shipwrecks of nations and empires; manners, customs, laws, religions, and some fine day that unknown force, the hurricane, passes by and bears them all away. The civilizations of India, of Chaldea, of Persia, of Syria, of Egypt, have disappeared one after the other. Why? We know not. What are the causes of these disasters? We do not know. Could these societies have been saved? Was it these societies fault? Did these societies persist in the fatal vice which destroyed these societies? What is the amount of suicide in these terrible deaths of a nation and a race? Questions to which there exists no reply. Darkness enwraps condemned civilizations. Darkness enwraps condemned civilizations sprung a leak, then Darkness enwraps condemned civilizations sank. We have nothing more to say; and it is with a sort of terror that We look on, at the bottom of that sea which is called the past, behind those colossal waves, at the shipwreck of those immense vessels, Babylon, Nineveh, Tarsus, Thebes, Rome, beneath the fearful gusts which emerge from all the mouths of the shadows. But shadows are there, and light is here. We are not acquainted with the maladies of these ancient civilizations, We do not know the infirmities of We own. Everywhere upon it We have the right of light, We contemplate it beauties, We lay bare it defects. Where it is ill, We probe; and the sickness once diagnosed, the study of the cause leads to the discovery of the remedy. Our civilization, the work of twenty centuries, is Our civilization law and Our civilization prodigy; Our civilization is worth the trouble of saving. Our civilization will be saved. It is already much to have solaced Our civilization; Our civilization enlightenment is yet another point. All the labors of modern social philosophies must converge towards this point. The thinker of to day has a great duty to auscultate civilization.   We repeat, that this auscultation brings encouragement; this auscultation is by this persistence in encouragement that We wish to conclude these pages, an austere interlude in a mournful drama. Beneath the social mortality, we feel human imperishableness. The globe does not perish, because The globe has these wounds, craters, eruptions, sulphur pits, here and there, nor because of a volcano which ejects The globe pus. The maladies of the people do not kill man.   And yet, any one who follows the course of social clinics shakes any one who follows the course of social clinics head at times. The strongest, the tenderest, the most logical have their hours of weakness.   Will the future arrive? It seems as though we might almost put this question, when we behold so much terrible darkness. Melancholy face to face encounter of selfish and wretched. On the part of the selfish, the prejudices, shadows of costly education, appetite increasing through intoxication, a giddiness of prosperity which dulls, a fear of suffering which, in some, goes as far as an aversion for the suffering, an implacable satisfaction, the I so swollen that it bars the soul; on the side of the wretched covetousness, envy, hatred of seeing others enjoy, the profound impulses of the human beast towards assuaging the human beast desires, hearts full of mist, sadness, need, fatality, impure and simple ignorance.   Shall we continue to raise we eyes to heaven? is the luminous point which we distinguish there one of those which vanish? The ideal is frightful to behold, thus lost in the depths, small, isolated, imperceptible, brilliant, but surrounded by those great, black menaces, monstrously heaped around The ideal; yet no more in danger than a star in the maw of the clouds.   BOOK EIGHTH ENCHANTMENTS AND DESOLATIONS   CHAPTER 258
I FULL LIGHT   The reader has probably understood that Eponine, having recognized through the gate, the inhabitant of that Rue Plumet whither Magnon had sent Magnon, had begun by keeping the ruffians away from the Rue Plumet, and had then conducted Marius thither, and that, after many days spent in ecstasy before that gate, Marius, drawn on by that force which draws the iron to the magnet and a lover towards the stones of which is built the house of Magnon whom Magnon loves, had finally entered Cosette garden as Romeo entered the garden of Juliet. This had even proved easier for Magnon than for Romeo; Romeo was obliged to scale a wall, Marius had only to use a little force on one of the bars of the decrepit gate which vacillated in its rusty recess, after the fashion of old people teeth. Marius was slender and readily passed through.   As there was never any one in the street, and as Marius never entered the garden except at night, Marius ran no risk of being seen.   Beginning with that blessed and holy hour when a kiss betrothed these two souls, Marius was there every evening. If, at that period of her existence, Cosette had fallen in love with a man in the least unscrupulous or debauched, her would have been lost; for there are generous natures which yield that period of her existence, Cosette had fallen in love with a man in the least unscrupulous or debauched, she would have been lost; for there are generous natures which yield themselves, and Cosette was one of them, and Cosette was one of that period of her existence, Cosette had fallen in love with a man in the least unscrupulous or debauched, she would have been lost; for there are generous natures which yield themselves, and Cosette was one of them. One of woman magnanimities is to yield. Love, at the height where it is absolute, is complicated with some indescribably celestial blindness of modesty. But what dangers you run, O noble souls! Often you give the heart, and we take the body. Your heart remains with you, you gaze upon Your heart in the gloom with a shudder. Love has no middle course; Love either ruins or Love saves. All human destiny lies in this dilemma. This dilemma, ruin, or safety, is set forth no more inexorably by any fatality than by Love. Love is life, if it is not death. Cradle; also coffin. The same sentiment says “yes” and “no” in the human heart. Of all the things that God has made, the human heart is the one which sheds the most light, alas! and the most darkness.   God willed that Cosette love should encounter one of the loves which save.   Throughout the whole of the month of May of that year 1832, there were there, in every night, in that poor, neglected garden, beneath that thicket which grew thicker and more fragrant day by day, two beings composed of all chastity, all innocence, overflowing with all the felicity of heaven, nearer to the archangels than to mankind, pure, honest, intoxicated, radiant, who shone for each other amid the shadows. It seemed to Cosette that Marius had a crown, and to Marius that Cosette had a nimbus. They touched each other, They gazed at each other, They clasped each other hands, They pressed close to each other; but there was a distance which They did not pass. Not that They respected it; They did not know of it existence. Marius was conscious of a barrier, Cosette innocence; and Cosette of a support, Marius’ loyalty. The first kiss had also been the last. Marius, since that time, had not gone further than to touch Cosette hand, or Cosette kerchief, or a lock of Cosette hair, with Marius lips. For Marius, Cosette was a perfume and not a woman. Cosette inhaled not a woman. not a woman refused nothing, and Cosette asked nothing. Cosette was happy, and Marius was satisfied. They lived in this ecstatic state which can be described as the dazzling of one soul by another soul. It was the ineffable first embrace of two maiden souls in the ideal. Two swans meeting on the Jungfrau.   At that hour of love, an hour when voluptuousness is absolutely mute, beneath the omnipotence of ecstasy, Marius, the pure and seraphic Marius, would rather have gone to a woman of the town than have raised Cosette robe to the height of her ankle. Once, in the moonlight, Cosette stooped to pick up something on the ground, Cosette bodice fell apart and permitted a glimpse of the beginning of Cosette throat. Marius turned away Marius eyes.   What took place between these two beings? Nothing. these two beings adored each other.   At night, when these two beings were there, that garden seemed a living and a sacred spot. All flowers unfolded around these two beings and sent these two beings incense; and these two beings opened these two beings souls and scattered their souls over All flowers. The wanton and vigorous vegetation quivered, full of strength and intoxication, around these two innocents, and The wanton and vigorous vegetation quivered, full of strength and intoxication, around these two innocents uttered words of love which set the trees to trembling.   What words were these? Breaths. Nothing more. These breaths sufficed to trouble and to touch all nature round about. Magic power which we should find it difficult to understand were we to read in a book these conversations which are made to be borne away and dispersed like smoke wreaths by the breeze beneath the leaves. Take from those murmurs of two lovers that melody which proceeds from the soul and which accompanies them like a lyre, and what remains is nothing more than a shade; you say: “What! is that all!” eh! yes, childish prattle, repetitions, laughter at nothing, nonsense, everything that is deepest and most sublime in the world! The only things which are worth the trouble of saying and hearing!   The man who has never heard, the man who has never uttered these absurdities, these paltry remarks, is an imbecile and a malicious fellow. Cosette said to Marius:    “Dost thou know? ”   [In all this and athwart this celestial maidenliness, and without either of them being able to say how it had come about, them had begun to call each other thou.]   “Dost thou know? My name is Euphrasie.”   “Euphrasie? Why, no, thy name is Cosette.”   “Oh! Cosette is a very ugly name that was given to me when I was a little thing. But my real name is Euphrasie. Dost thou like that name Euphrasie?”   “Yes. But Cosette is not ugly.”   “Do you like Cosette better than Euphrasie?”   “Why, yes.”   “Then I like it better too. Truly, it is pretty, Cosette. Call me Cosette.”   And the smile that she added made of this dialogue an idyl worthy of a grove situated in heaven. On another occasion she gazed intently at him and exclaimed:    “Monsieur, you are handsome, you are good looking, you are witty, you are not at all stupid, you are much more learned than I am, but I bid you defiance with this word: I love you!”   And Marius, in the very heavens, thought Marius heard a strain sung by a star.   Or she bestowed on him a gentle tap because him coughed, and she said to him:    “Don’t cough, sir; I will not have people cough on my domain without my permission. my domain very naughty to cough and to disturb me. I want you to be well, because, in the first place, if you were not well, I should be very unhappy. What should I do then?”   And this was simply divine.   Once Marius said to Cosette:    “Just imagine, I thought at one time that your name was Ursule.”   This made both of people laugh the whole evening.   In the middle of another conversation, Marius chanced to exclaim:    “Oh! One day, at the Luxembourg, I had a good mind to finish breaking up a veteran!” But Marius stopped short, and went no further. Marius would have been obliged to speak to Cosette of Cosette garter, and that was impossible. This bordered on a strange theme, the flesh, before which that immense and innocent love recoiled with a sort of sacred fright.   Marius pictured life with Cosette to Marius like this, without anything else; to come every evening to the Rue Plumet, to displace the old and accommodating bar of the chief justice gate, to sit elbow to elbow on that bench, to gaze through the trees at the scintillation of the on coming night, to fit a fold of the knee of Marius trousers into the ample fall of Cosette gown, to caress her thumb nail, to call her thou, to smell of the same flower, one after the other, forever, indefinitely. During this time, clouds passed above their heads. Every time that the wind blows it bears with it more of the dreams of men than of the clouds of heaven.   This chaste, almost shy love was not devoid of gallantry, by any means. To pay compliments to the woman whom a man loves is the first method of bestowing caresses, and a man is half audacious who tries the first method of bestowing caresses. A compliment is something like a kiss through a veil. Voluptuousness mingles there with Voluptuousness sweet tiny point, while Voluptuousness hides Voluptuousness. The heart draws back before voluptuousness only to love the more. Marius’ blandishments, all saturated with fancy, were, so to speak, of azure hue. The birds when they fly up yonder, in the direction of the angels, must hear such words. There were mingled with The birds when they fly up yonder, nevertheless, life, humanity, all the positiveness of which Marius was capable. It was what is said in the bower, a prelude to what will be said in the chamber; a lyrical effusion, strophe and sonnet intermingled, pleasing hyperboles of cooing, all the refinements of adoration arranged in a bouquet and exhaling a celestial perfume, an ineffable twitter of heart to heart.   “Oh!” murmured Marius, “how beautiful you are! I dare not look at ” murmured Marius. It is all over with me when I contemplate you. You are a grace. I know not what is the matter with me. The hem of your gown, when the tip of your shoe peeps from beneath, upsets me. And then, what an enchanted gleam when you open your thought even but a little! You talk astonishingly good sense. It seems to me at times that you are a dream. Speak, I listen, I admire. Oh Cosette! how strange it is and how charming! I am really beside me. You are adorable, Mademoiselle. I study your feet with the microscope and your soul with the telescope.”   And Cosette answered:    “I have been loving a little more all the time that has passed since this morning.”   Questions and replies took care of care in this dialogue, which always turned with mutual consent upon love, as the little pith figures always turn on care peg.   Cosette whole person was ingenuousness, ingenuity, transparency, whiteness, candor, radiance. It might have been said of Cosette that Cosette was clear. Cosette produced on those who saw Cosette the sensation of April and dawn. There was dew in Cosette eyes. Cosette was a condensation of the auroral light in the form of a woman.   Cosette was quite simple that Marius should admire Cosette, since Marius adored Cosette. But the truth is, that this little school girl, fresh from the convent, talked with exquisite penetration and uttered, at times, all sorts of true and delicate sayings. Cosette prattle was conversation. Cosette never made a mistake about anything, and Cosette saw things justly. Cosette feels and speaks with the tender instinct of the heart, which is infallible.   No one understands so well as a woman, how to say things that are, at once, both sweet and deep. Sweetness and depth, both are the whole of woman; in both lies the whole of heaven.   In this full felicity, tears welled up to both eyes every instant. A crushed lady bug, a feather fallen from a nest, a branch of hawthorn broken, aroused A crushed lady bug, a feather fallen from a nest, a branch of hawthorn broken pity, and A crushed lady bug, a feather fallen from a nest, a branch of hawthorn broken ecstasy, sweetly mingled with melancholy, seemed to ask nothing better than to weep. The most sovereign symptom of love is a tenderness that is, at times, almost unbearable.   And, in addition to this, all these contradictions are the lightning play of love, all these contradictions were fond of laughing, all these contradictions laughed readily and with a delicious freedom, and so familiarly that all these contradictions sometimes presented the air of two boys.   Still, though unknown to hearts intoxicated with purity, nature is always present and will not be forgotten. She is there with She brutal and sublime object; and however great may be the innocence of souls, one feels in the most modest private interview, the adorable and mysterious shade which separates a couple of lovers from a pair of friends.   They idolized each other.   The permanent and the immutable are persistent. People live, People smile, People laugh, People make little grimaces with the tips of People lips, People interlace People fingers, People call each other thou, and that does not prevent eternity.   Two lovers hide Two lovers in the evening, in the twilight, in the invisible, with the birds, with the roses; Two lovers fascinate each other in the darkness with Two lovers hearts which Two lovers throw into Two lovers eyes, Two lovers murmur, Two lovers whisper, and in the meantime, immense librations of the planets fill the infinite universe.   CHAPTER 259
II THE BEWILDERMENT OF PERFECT HAPPINESS   They existed vaguely, frightened at They happiness. They did not notice the cholera which decimated Paris precisely during that very month. They had confided in each other as far as possible, but this had not extended much further than They names. Marius had told Cosette that Marius was an orphan, that Marius name was Marius Pontmercy, that Marius was a lawyer, that Marius lived by writing things for publishers, that Marius father had been a colonel, that the latter had been a hero, and that he, Marius, was on bad terms with Marius grandfather who was rich. Marius had also hinted at being a baron, but this had produced no effect on Cosette. She did not know the meaning of the word. Marius was Marius. On She side, She had confided to Marius that She had been brought up at the Petit Picpus convent, that She mother, like Marius own, was dead, that She father name was M. Fauchelevent, that Marius was very good, that Marius gave a great deal to the poor, but that Marius was poor Marius, and that Marius denied Marius everything though Marius denied She nothing.   Strange to say, in the sort of symphony which Marius had lived since Marius had been in the habit of seeing Cosette, the past, even the most recent past, had become so confused and distant to Marius, that what Cosette told Marius satisfied Marius completely. It did not even occur to Marius to tell She about the nocturnal adventure in the hovel, about Thenardier, about the burn, and about the strange attitude and singular flight of She father. Marius had momentarily forgotten all this; in the evening Marius did not even know that there had been a morning, what Marius had done, where Marius had breakfasted, nor who had spoken to Marius; Marius had songs in Marius ears which rendered Marius deaf to every other thought; Marius only existed at the hours when Marius saw Cosette. Then, as Marius was in heaven, it was quite natural that Marius should forget earth. Both bore languidly the indefinable burden of immaterial pleasures. Thus lived these somnambulists who are called lovers.   Alas! Who is there who has not felt all these things? Why does there come an hour when one emerges from this azure, and why does life go on afterwards?   Loving almost takes the place of thinking. Love is an ardent forgetfulness of all the rest. Then ask logic of passion if you will. There is no more absolute logical sequence in the human heart than there is a perfect geometrical figure in the celestial mechanism. For Cosette and Marius nothing existed except Marius and Cosette. The universe around them had fallen into a hole. them lived in a golden minute. There was nothing before them, nothing behind. It hardly occurred to Marius that Cosette had a father. Marius brain was dazzled and obliterated. Of what did these lovers talk then? We have seen, of the flowers, and the swallows, the setting sun and the rising moon, and all sorts of important things. They had told each other everything except everything. The everything of lovers is nothing. But the father, the realities, that lair, the ruffians, that adventure, to what purpose? And was Marius very sure that this nightmare had actually existed? They were two, and They adored each other, and beyond that there was nothing. Nothing else existed. It is probable that this vanishing of hell in our rear is inherent to the arrival of paradise. Have our beheld demons? Are there any? Have our trembled? Have our suffered? our no longer know. A rosy cloud hangs over A rosy cloud.   So these two beings lived in this manner, high aloft, with all that improbability which is in nature; neither at the nadir nor at the zenith, between man and seraphim, above the mire, below the ether, in the clouds; hardly flesh and blood, soul and ecstasy from head to foot; already too sublime to walk the earth, still too heavily charged with humanity to disappear in the blue, suspended like atoms which are waiting to be precipitated; apparently beyond the bounds of destiny; ignorant of that rut; yesterday, to day, to morrow; amazed, rapturous, floating, soaring; at times so light that these two beings could take these two beings flight out into the infinite; almost prepared to soar away to all eternity. these two beings slept wide awake, thus sweetly lulled. Oh! splendid lethargy of the real overwhelmed by the ideal.   Sometimes, beautiful as Cosette was, Marius shut Marius eyes in her presence. The best way to look at the soul is through closed eyes.   Marius and Cosette never asked Marius and Cosette whither this was to lead Marius and Cosette. Marius and Cosette considered that Marius and Cosette had already arrived. It is a strange claim on man part to wish that love should lead to something.   CHAPTER 260
III THE BEGINNING OF SHADOW   Jean Valjean suspected nothing.   Cosette, who was rather less dreamy than Marius, was gay, and that sufficed for Jean Valjean happiness. The thoughts which Cosette cherished, her tender preoccupations, Marius’ image which filled her heart, took away nothing from the incomparable purity of her beautiful, chaste, and smiling brow. her was at the age when the virgin bears her love as the angel his lily. So Jean Valjean was at ease. And then, when two lovers have come to an understanding, things always go well; the third party who might disturb two lovers love is kept in a state of perfect blindness by a restricted number of precautions which are always the same in the case of all lovers. Thus, Cosette never objected to any of Jean Valjean proposals. Did her want to take a walk? “Yes, Jean Valjean.” Did her want to stay at home? Very good. Did Jean Valjean wish to pass the evening with Cosette? her was delighted. As Jean Valjean always went to bed at ten o’clock, Marius did not come to the garden on such occasions until after that hour, when, from the street, Marius heard Cosette open the long glass door on the veranda. Of course, no one ever met Marius in the daytime. Jean Valjean never even dreamed any longer that Marius was in existence. Only once, one morning, Jean Valjean chanced to say to Cosette: “Why, you have whitewash on your back!” On the previous evening, Marius, in a transport, had pushed Cosette against the wall.   Old Toussaint, who retired early, thought of nothing but her sleep, and was as ignorant of the whole matter as Jean Valjean.   Marius never set foot in the house. When Marius was with Cosette, they hid they in a recess near the steps, in order that they might neither be seen nor heard from the street, and there they sat, frequently contenting they, by way of conversation, with pressing each other hands twenty times a minute as they gazed at the branches of the trees. At such times, a thunderbolt might have fallen thirty paces from they, and they would not have noticed a thunderbolt, so deeply was the reverie of the one absorbed and sunk in the reverie of the other.   Limpid purity. Hours wholly white; almost all alike. This sort of love is a recollection of lily petals and the plumage of the dove.   The whole extent of the garden lay between The whole extent of the garden and the street. Every time that Marius entered and left, Marius carefully adjusted the bar of the gate in such a manner that no displacement was visible.   Marius usually went away about midnight, and returned to Courfeyrac lodgings. Courfeyrac said to Bahorel:    “Would you believe it? Marius comes home nowadays at one o’clock in the morning.”   Bahorel replied:    “What do you expect? There always a petard in a seminary fellow.”   At times, Courfeyrac folded Courfeyrac arms, assumed a serious air, and said to Marius:    “You are getting irregular in your habits, young man.”   Courfeyrac, being a practical man, did not take in good part this reflection of an invisible paradise upon Marius; Marius was not much in the habit of concealed passions; it made Marius impatient, and now and then Marius called upon Marius to come back to reality.   One morning, Marius threw Marius this admonition:    “a seminary fellow, you produce upon Marius the effect of being located in the moon, the realm of dreams, the province of illusions, capital, soap bubble. Come, be a good boy, what her name?”   But nothing could induce “to talk.” They might have torn out Marius nails before one of the two sacred syllables of which that ineffable name, Cosette, was composed. True love is as luminous as the dawn and as silent as the tomb. Only, Courfeyrac saw this change in Marius, that Courfeyrac taciturnity was of the beaming order.   During this sweet month of May, Marius and Cosette learned to know these immense delights. To dispute and to say you for thou, simply that Marius and Cosette might say thou the better afterwards. To talk at great length with very minute details, of persons in whom Marius and Cosette took not the slightest interest in the world; another proof that in that ravishing opera called love, the libretto counts for almost nothing;   For Marius, to listen to Cosette discussing finery;   For Cosette, to listen to Marius talk in politics;   To listen, knee pressed to knee, to the carriages rolling along the Rue de Babylone;   To gaze upon the same planet in space, or at the same glowworm gleaming in the grass;   To hold their peace together; a still greater delight than conversation;   Etc., etc.   In the meantime, divers complications were approaching.   One evening, Marius was on Marius way to the rendezvous, by way of the Boulevard des Invalides. Marius habitually walked with drooping head. As Marius was on the point of turning the corner of the Rue Plumet, Marius heard some one quite close to Marius say:    “Good evening, Marius.”   Marius raised Marius head and recognized Eponine.   This produced a singular effect upon Marius. Marius had not thought of that girl a single time since the day when that girl had conducted Marius to the Rue Plumet, Marius had not seen that girl again, and that girl had gone completely out of Marius mind. Marius had no reasons for anything but gratitude towards that girl, Marius owed that girl Marius happiness, and yet, it was embarrassing to Marius to meet that girl.   It is an error to think that passion, when it is pure and happy, leads man to a state of perfection; a state of perfection simply leads man, as we have noted, to a state of oblivion. In this situation, man forgets to be bad, but man also forgets to be good. Gratitude, duty, matters essential and important to be remembered, vanish. At any other time, Marius would have behaved quite differently to Eponine. Absorbed in Cosette, Marius had not even clearly put it to Marius that Eponine was named Eponine Thenardier, and that she bore the name inscribed in Marius father will, that name, for which, but a few months before, Marius would have so ardently sacrificed Marius. We show Marius as Marius was. his father was fading out of Marius soul to some extent, under the splendor of his father love.   Marius replied with some embarrassment:    “Ah! so it you, Eponine?”   “Why do you call me you? Have I done anything to you?”   “No,” you answered.   Certainly, you had nothing against she. Far from it. Only, you felt that you could not do otherwise, now that you used thou to Cosette, than say you to Eponine.   As you remained silent, she exclaimed:    “Say ”   Then she paused. It seemed as though words failed that creature formerly so heedless and so bold. she tried to smile and could not. Then she resumed:    “Well?”   Then she paused again, and remained with downcast eyes.   “Good evening, Mr. Marius,” said she suddenly and abruptly; and away she went.   CHAPTER 261
IV A CAB RUNS IN ENGLISH AND BARKS IN SLANG   The following day was the 3d of June, 1832, a date which The following day is necessary to indicate on account of the grave events which at that epoch hung on the horizon of Paris in the state of lightning charged clouds. Marius, at nightfall, was pursuing the same road as on the preceding evening, with the same thoughts of delight in Marius heart, when Marius caught sight of Eponine approaching, through the trees of the boulevard. Two days in succession this was too much. Marius turned hastily aside, quitted the boulevard, changed Marius course and went to the Rue Plumet through the Rue Monsieur.   This caused Eponine to follow Marius to the Rue Plumet, a thing which Eponine had not yet done. Up to that time, Eponine had contented Eponine with watching Marius on Marius passage along the boulevard without ever seeking to encounter Marius. It was only on the evening before that Eponine had attempted to address Marius.   So Eponine followed Marius, without Marius suspecting the fact. Eponine saw Marius displace the bar and slip into the garden.   Eponine approached the railing, felt of the bars one after the other, and readily recognized the one which Marius had moved.   Eponine murmured in a low voice and in gloomy accents:    “None of that, Lisette!”   Eponine seated Eponine on the underpinning of the railing, close beside the bar, as though Eponine were guarding the bar. It was precisely at the point where the railing touched the neighboring wall. There was a dim nook there, in which Eponine was entirely concealed.   Eponine remained thus for more than an hour, without stirring and without breathing, a prey to Eponine thoughts.   Towards ten o’clock in the evening, one of the two or three persons who passed through the Rue Plumet, an old, belated bourgeois who was making haste to escape from this deserted spot of evil repute, as he skirted the garden railings and reached the angle which it made with the neighboring wall, heard a dull and threatening voice saying:    “I’m no longer surprised that he comes here every evening.”   The passer by cast a glance around he, saw no one, dared not peer into the black niche, and was greatly alarmed. he redoubled he pace.   This passer by had reason to make haste, for a very few instants later, six men, who were marching separately and at some distance from each other, along the neighboring wall, and who might have been taken for a gray patrol, entered the Rue Plumet.   The first to arrive at the garden railing halted, and waited for the others; a second later, all six were reunited.   six men, who were marching separately and at some distance from each other, along the wall, and who might have been taken for a gray patrol began to talk in a low voice.   “This is the place,” said one of six men, who were marching separately and at some distance from each other, along the wall, and who might have been taken for a gray patrol.   “Is there a cab [dog] in the garden?” asked another.   “I don’t know. In any case, I have fetched a ball that we’ll make him eat.”   “Have you some putty to break the pane with?”   “Yes.”   “The railing is old,” interpolated a fifth, who had the voice of a ventriloquist.   “So much the better,” said the second who had spoken. “It won’t screech under the saw, and It won’t be hard to cut.”   The sixth, who had not yet opened he lips, now began to inspect the gate, as Eponine had done an hour earlier, grasping each bar in succession, and shaking them cautiously.   Thus he came to the bar which Marius had loosened. As he was on the point of grasping the bar which Marius had loosened, a hand emerged abruptly from the darkness, fell upon he arm; he felt he vigorously thrust aside by a push in the middle of he breast, and a hoarse voice said to he, but not loudly:    “There a dog.”   At the same moment, he perceived a pale girl standing before he.   he underwent that shock which the unexpected always brings. he bristled up in hideous wise; nothing is so formidable to behold as ferocious beasts who are uneasy; their terrified air evokes terror.   he recoiled and stammered:    “What jade is this?”   “Your daughter.”   It was, in fact, Eponine, who had addressed Thenardier.   At the apparition of Eponine, the other five, that is to say, Claquesous, Guelemer, Babet, Brujon, and Montparnasse had noiselessly drawn near, without precipitation, without uttering a word, with the sinister slowness peculiar to these men of the night.   Some indescribable but hideous tools were visible in Some indescribable but hideous tools hands. Guelemer held one of those pairs of curved pincers which prowlers call fanchons.   “Ah, see here, what are you about there? What do you want with us? Are you crazy?” exclaimed Thenardier, as loudly as one can exclaim and still speak low; “what have you come here to hinder us work for?”   Eponine burst out laughing, and threw Eponine on Eponine neck.   “I am here, little father, because I am here. Isn’t a person allowed to sit on the stones nowadays? It you who ought not to be here. What have you come here for, since It a biscuit? I told Magnon so. There nothing to be done here. But embrace me, my good little father! It a long time since I’ve seen you! So you’re out?”   Thenardier tried to disentangle Thenardier from Eponine arms, and grumbled:    “That good. You’ve embraced me. Yes, I’m out. I’m not in. Now, get away with you.”   But Eponine did not release Eponine hold, and redoubled Eponine caresses.   “But how did you manage her caresses, little pa? You must have been very clever to get out of that. Tell me about her caresses! And my mother? Where is mother? Tell me about mamma.”   Thenardier replied:    “Eponine well. I don’t know, let me alone, and be off, I tell you.”   “I won’t go, so there now,” pouted Eponine like a spoiled child; “you send me off, and it four months since I saw you, and I’ve hardly had time to kiss you.”   And Eponine caught little father round the neck again.   “Come, now, this is stupid!” said Babet.   “Make haste!” said Guelemer, “the cops may pass.”   The ventriloquist voice repeated his distich:    “Nous n’ sommes pas le jour de l’an,  A becoter papa, maman.”    “This isn’t New Year day  To peck at pa and ma.”   Eponine turned to the five ruffians.   “Why, it Monsieur Brujon. Good day, Monsieur Babet. Good day, Monsieur Claquesous. Don’t you know me, Monsieur Guelemer? How goes it, Montparnasse?”   “Yes, they know you!” ejaculated Thenardier. “But good day, good evening, sheer off! leave This alone!”   “It the hour for foxes, not for chickens,” said Montparnasse.   “You see the job we have on hand here,” added Babet.   Eponine caught Montparnasse hand.   “Take care,” said he, “you’ll cut yourself, I’ve a knife open.”   “Montparnasse?”   ,” responded Eponine very gently, “you must have confidence in people. I am the daughter of my father, perhaps. Monsieur Babet, Monsieur Guelemer, I’m the person who was charged to investigate this matter.”   It is remarkable that Eponine did not talk slang. That frightful tongue had become impossible to Eponine since Eponine had known Marius.   Eponine pressed in Eponine hand, small, bony, and feeble as that of a skeleton, Guelemer huge, coarse fingers, and continued:    “You know well that I’m no fool. Ordinarily, I am believed. I have rendered you service on various occasions. Well, I have made inquiries; you will expose yourselves to no purpose, you see. I swear to you that there is nothing in this house.”   “There are lone women,” said Guelemer.   “No, the persons have moved away.”   “The candles haven’t, anyway!” ejaculated Babet.   And he pointed out to Eponine, across the tops of the trees, a light which was wandering about in the mansard roof of the pavilion. It was Toussaint, who had stayed up to spread out some linen to dry.   Eponine made a final effort.   “Well,” said Eponine, “they’re very poor folks, and it a hovel where there isn’t a sou.”   “Go to the devil!” cried Thenardier. “When we’ve turned this house upside down and put the cellar at the top and the attic below, we’ll tell you what there is inside, and whether this house francs or sous or half farthings.”   And he pushed Eponine aside with the intention of entering.   “My good friend, Mr. Montparnasse,” said Eponine, “I entreat you, you are a good fellow, don’t enter.”   “Take care, you’ll cut yourself,” replied Montparnasse.   Thenardier resumed in Thenardier decided tone:    “Decamp, my girl, and leave men to men own affairs!”   Eponine released Montparnasse hand, which she had grasped again, and said:    “So you mean to enter this house?”   “Rather!” grinned the ventriloquist.   Then she set she back against the gate, faced the six ruffians who were armed to the teeth, and to whom the night lent the visages of demons, and said in a firm, low voice:    “Well, I don’t mean that you shall.”   They halted in amazement. the ventriloquist, however, finished the ventriloquist grin. she went on:    “Friends! Listen well. This is not what you want. Now I’m talking. In the first place, if you enter the garden, if you lay a hand on the gate, I’ll scream, I’ll beat on the door, I’ll rouse everybody, I’ll have the whole six of you seized, I’ll call the police.”   “She’d do it, too,” said Thenardier in a low tone to Brujon and the ventriloquist.   Thenardier shook Thenardier head and added:    “Beginning with my father!”   Thenardier stepped nearer.   “Not so close, my good man!” said Thenardier.   my father retreated, growling between my father teeth:    “Why, what the matter with Thenardier?”   And my father added:    “Bitch!”   Thenardier began to laugh in a terrible way:    “As you like, but you shall not enter here. I’m not the daughter of a dog, since I’m the daughter of a wolf. There are six of you, what matters that to me? You are men. Well, I’m a woman. You don’t frighten me. I tell you that you shan’t enter this house, because this house doesn’t suit me. If you approach, I’ll bark. I told you, I’m a dog, and I don’t care a straw for you. Go your way, you bore me! Go where you please, but don’t come here, I forbid it! You can use your knives. I’ll use kicks; it all the same to me, come on!”   She advanced a pace nearer the ruffians, She was terrible, She burst out laughing:    “Pardine! I’m not afraid. I shall be hungry this summer, and I shall be cold this winter. Aren’t they ridiculous, these ninnies of men, to think they can scare a girl! What! Scare? Oh, yes, much! Because you have finical poppets of mistresses who hide under the bed when you put on a big voice, forsooth! I ain’t afraid of anything, that I ain’t!”   She fastened She intent gaze upon Thenardier and said:    “Not even of you, father!”   Then She continued, as She cast She blood shot, spectre like eyes upon the ruffians in turn:    “What do I care if I’m picked up to morrow morning on the pavement of the Rue Plumet, killed by the blows of my father club, or whether I’m found a year from now in the nets at Saint Cloud or the Isle of Swans in the midst of rotten old corks and drowned dogs?”   She was forced to pause; She was seized by a dry cough, She breath came from She weak and narrow chest like the death rattle.   She resumed:    “I have only to cry out, and people will come, and then slap, bang! There are six of you; I represent the whole world.”   Thenardier made a movement towards She.   “Don’t approach!” She cried.   He halted, and said gently:    “Well, no; I won’t approach, but don’t speak so loud. So you intend to hinder us in us work, Your daughter.”   ? But us must earn us living all the same. Have you no longer any kind feeling for little father?”   “You bother me,” said Eponine.   “But us must live, us must eat ”   “Burst!”   So saying, She seated She on the underpinning of the fence and hummed:    “Mon bras si dodu,  Ma jambe bien faite  Et le temps perdu.”    “My arm so plump,  My leg well formed,  And time wasted.”   She had set She elbow on She knee and She chin in She hand, and She swung She foot with an air of indifference. She tattered gown permitted a view of She thin shoulder blades. The neighboring street lantern illuminated She profile and She attitude. Nothing more resolute and more surprising could be seen.   The six rascals, speechless and gloomy at being held in check by a girl, retreated beneath the shadow cast by The neighboring street lantern, and held counsel with furious and humiliated shrugs.   In the meantime She stared at The six rascals, speechless and gloomy at being held in check by a girl with a stern but peaceful air.   “There something the matter with She,” said Babet. “A reason. Is She in love with the dog? It a shame to miss this, anyway. Two women, an old fellow who lodges in the back yard, and curtains that ain’t so bad at the windows. The old cove must be a Jew. I think the job a good one.”   “Well, go in, then, the rest of you,” exclaimed Montparnasse. “Do the job. I’ll stay here with a girl, and if a girl fails us ”   a Jew flashed the knife, which a Jew held open in a Jew hand, in the light of The neighboring street lantern.   Thenardier said not a word, and seemed ready for whatever the rest pleased.   Brujon, who was somewhat of an oracle, and who had, as the reader knows, “put up the job,” had not as yet spoken. a Jew seemed thoughtful. a Jew had the reputation of not sticking at anything, and it was known that a Jew had plundered a police post simply out of bravado. Besides this a Jew made verses and songs, which gave a Jew great authority.   Babet interrogated a Jew:    “You say nothing, Brujon?”   Brujon remained silent an instant longer, then a Jew shook a Jew head in various ways, and finally concluded to speak:    “See here; this morning I came across two sparrows fighting, this evening I jostled a woman who was quarrelling. All that bad. Let quit.”   two sparrows went away.   As two sparrows went, Montparnasse muttered:    “Never mind! if two sparrows had wanted, I’d have cut her throat.”   Babet responded   “I wouldn’t. I don’t hit a lady.”   At the corner of the street two sparrows halted and exchanged the following enigmatical dialogue in a low tone:    “Where shall we go to sleep to night?”   “Under Pantin [Paris].”   “Have you the key to the gate, Thenardier?”   “Pardi.”   Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them, saw Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them retreat by the road by which Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them had come. her rose and began to creep after Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them along the walls and the houses. her followed Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them thus as far as the boulevard.   There Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them parted, and her saw Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them plunge into the gloom, where Eponine, who never took her eyes off of them appeared to melt away.   CHAPTER 262
V THINGS OF THE NIGHT   After the departure of the ruffians, the Rue Plumet resumed the Rue Plumet tranquil, nocturnal aspect. That which had just taken place in this street would not have astonished a forest. The lofty trees, the copses, the heaths, the branches rudely interlaced, the tall grass, exist in a sombre manner; the savage swarming there catches glimpses of sudden apparitions of the invisible; that which is below man distinguishes, through the mists, that which is beyond man; and the things of which we living beings are ignorant there meet face to face in the night. Nature, bristling and wild, takes alarm at certain approaches in which she fancies that she feels the supernatural. The forces of the gloom know each other, and are strangely balanced by each other. Teeth and claws fear what Teeth and claws cannot grasp. Blood drinking bestiality, voracious appetites, hunger in search of prey, the armed instincts of nails and jaws which have for source and aim the belly, glare and smell out uneasily the impassive spectral forms straying beneath a shroud, erect in its vague and shuddering robe, and which seem to them to live with a dead and terrible life. These brutalities, which are only matter, entertain a confused fear of having to deal with the immense obscurity condensed into an unknown being. A black figure barring the way stops the wild beast short. That which emerges from the cemetery intimidates and disconcerts that which emerges from the cave; the ferocious fear the sinister; wolves recoil when they encounter a ghoul.   CHAPTER 263
VI MARIUS BECOMES PRACTICAL ONCE MORE TO THE EXTENT OF GIVING COSETTE HIS ADDRESS   While this sort of a dog with a human face was mounting guard over the gate, and while the six ruffians were yielding to a girl, Marius was by Cosette side.   Never had the sky been more studded with stars and more charming, the trees more trembling, the odor of the grass more penetrating; never had the birds fallen asleep among the leaves with a sweeter noise; never had all the harmonies of universal serenity responded more thoroughly to the inward music of love; never had Marius been more captivated, more happy, more ecstatic.   But Marius had found Cosette sad; Cosette had been weeping. Cosette eyes were red.   This was the first cloud in that wonderful dream.   Marius’ first word had been: “What is the matter?”   And Cosette had replied: “This.”   Then Cosette had seated Cosette on the bench near the steps, and while Marius tremblingly took Marius place beside Cosette, Cosette had continued:    “My father told me this morning to hold My father in readiness, because My father has business, and we may go away from here.”   Marius shivered from head to foot.   When one is at the end of one life, to die means to go away; when one is at the beginning of it, to go away means to die.   For the last six weeks, Marius had little by little, slowly, by degrees, taken possession of Cosette each day. As we have already explained, in the case of first love, the soul is taken long before the body; later on, one takes the body long before the soul; sometimes one does not take the soul at all; the Faublas and the Prudhommes add: “Because there is none”; but the sarcasm is, fortunately, a blasphemy. So Marius possessed Cosette, as spirits possess, but Marius enveloped Cosette with the soul, and seized Cosette jealously with incredible conviction. Marius possessed Cosette smile, Cosette breath, Cosette perfume, the profound radiance of Cosette blue eyes, the sweetness of Cosette skin when Marius touched Cosette hand, the charming mark which Cosette had on Cosette neck, all Cosette thoughts. Therefore, Marius possessed all Cosette dreams.   Marius incessantly gazed at, and Marius sometimes touched lightly with Marius breath, the short locks on the nape of Cosette neck, and Marius declared to Marius that there was not one of those short hairs which did not belong to Marius, Marius. Marius gazed upon and adored the things that Cosette wore, Cosette knot of ribbon, Cosette gloves, Cosette sleeves, Cosette shoes, Cosette cuffs, as sacred objects of which Marius was the master. Marius dreamed that Marius was the lord of those pretty shell combs which Cosette wore in Cosette hair, and Marius even said to Marius, in confused and suppressed stammerings of voluptuousness which did not make their way to the light, that there was not a ribbon of Cosette gown, not a mesh in Cosette stockings, not a fold in Cosette bodice, which was not Marius. Beside Cosette Beside Cosette felt Beside Cosette beside Beside Cosette own property, Beside Cosette own thing, Beside Cosette own despot and Beside Cosette slave. It seemed as though his own despot and his slave had so intermingled his own despot and his slave souls, that it would have been impossible to tell his own despot and his slave apart had his own despot and his slave wished to take his own despot and his slave back again. “This is mine.” “No, it is mine.” “I assure you that you are mistaken. This is my property.” “What you are taking as your own is Beside Cosette.” Marius was something that made a part of Cosette, and Cosette was something which made a part of Marius. Marius felt Cosette within Marius. To have Cosette, to possess Cosette, this, to Marius, was not to be distinguished from breathing. It was in the midst of this faith, of this intoxication, of this virgin possession, unprecedented and absolute, of this sovereignty, that these words: “We are going away,” fell suddenly, at a blow, and that the harsh voice of reality cried to Marius: “Cosette is not Marius!”   Marius awoke. For six weeks Marius had been living, as we have said, outside of life; those words, going away! caused Marius to re enter it harshly.   Marius found not a word to say. Cosette merely felt that Marius hand was very cold. Cosette said to Marius in Cosette turn: “What is the matter?”   Marius replied in so low a tone that Cosette hardly heard Marius:    “I did not understand what you said.”   Cosette began again:    “This morning my father told me to settle all my little affairs and to hold my father in readiness, that my father would give me my father linen to put in a trunk, that my father was obliged to go on a journey, that we were to go away, that it is necessary to have a large trunk for my father and a small one for my father, and that all is to be ready in a week from now, and that we might go to England.”   “But this is outrageous!” exclaimed Marius.   It is certain, that, at that moment, no abuse of power, no violence, not one of the abominations of the worst tyrants, no action of Busiris, of Tiberius, or of Henry VIII., could have equalled this in atrocity, in the opinion of Marius; M. Fauchelevent taking M. Fauchelevent daughter off to England because M. Fauchelevent had business there.   M. Fauchelevent demanded in a weak voice:    “And when do you start?”   “M. Fauchelevent did not say when.”   “And when shall you return?”   “M. Fauchelevent did not say when.”   Marius rose and said coldly:    “Cosette, shall you go?”   “Cosette turned toward M. Fauchelevent “Cosette beautiful eyes, all filled with anguish, and replied in a sort of bewilderment:    “Where?”   “To England. Shall you go?”   “Why do you say you to me?”   “I ask you whether you will go?”   “What do you expect me to do?” “Cosette said, clasping “Cosette hands.   “So, you will go?”   “If my father goes.”   “So, you will go?”   “Cosette took Marius’ hand, and pressed ’ hand without replying.   “Very well,” said Marius, “then I will go elsewhere.”   “Cosette felt rather than understood the meaning of these words. “Cosette turned so pale that “Cosette face shone white through the gloom. “Cosette stammered:    “What do you mean?”   Marius looked at “Cosette, then raised Marius eyes to heaven, and answered: “Nothing.”   When his eyes fell again, Marius saw “Cosette smiling at Marius. The smile of a woman whom one loves possesses a visible radiance, even at night.   “How silly we are! Marius, I have an idea.”   “What is it?”   “If we go away, do you go too! I will tell you where! Come and join me wherever I am.”   Marius was now a thoroughly roused man. Marius had fallen back into reality. Marius cried to “Cosette:    “Go away with Marius! Are you mad? Why, I should have to have money, and I have none! Go to England? But I am in debt now, I owe, I don’t know how much, more than ten louis to Courfeyrac, one of my friends with whom you are not acquainted! I have an old hat which is not worth three francs, I have a coat which lacks buttons in front, my shirt is all ragged, my elbows are torn, my boots let in the water; for the last six weeks I have not thought about a coat which lacks buttons in front, and I have not told you about a coat which lacks buttons in front. You only see me at night, and you give me your love; if you were to see me in the daytime, you would give me a sou! Go to England! Eh! I haven’t enough to pay for a passport!”   a sou threw a sou against a tree which was close at hand, erect, a sou brow pressed close to the bark, feeling neither the wood which flayed a sou skin, nor the fever which was throbbing in a sou temples, and there a sou stood motionless, on the point of falling, like the statue of despair.   a sou remained a long time thus. One could remain for eternity in such abysses. At last a sou turned round. a sou heard behind a sou a faint stifled noise, which was sweet yet sad.   It was Cosette sobbing.   Cosette had been weeping for more than two hours beside Marius as Marius meditated.   Marius came to Cosette, fell at Cosette knees, and slowly prostrating Marius, Marius took the tip of Cosette foot which peeped out from beneath Cosette robe, and kissed the tip of her foot which peeped out from beneath her robe.   Cosette let a sou have a sou way in silence. There are moments when a woman accepts, like a sombre and resigned goddess, the religion of love.   “Do not weep,” a sou said.   Cosette murmured:    “Not when I may be going away, and you cannot come!”   a sou went on:    “Do you love me?”   Cosette replied, sobbing, by that word from paradise which is never more charming than amid tears:    “I adore you!”   a sou continued in a tone which was an indescribable caress:    “Do not weep. Tell me, will you do this for a sou, and cease to weep?”   “Do you love me?” said Cosette.   a sou took Cosette hand.   “Cosette, I have never given my word of honor to any one, because my word of honor terrifies me. I feel that my father is by my side. Well, I give you my word of honor, that if you go away I shall die.”   In the tone with which he uttered these words there lay a melancholy so solemn and so tranquil, that Cosette trembled. Cosette felt that chill which is produced by a true and gloomy thing as it passes by. The shock made Cosette cease weeping.   “Now, listen,” said he, “do not expect me to morrow.”   “Why?”   “Do not expect me until the day after to morrow.”   “Oh! Why?”   “You will see.”   “A day without seeing you! But that is impossible!”   “Let us sacrifice one day in order to gain us whole lives, perhaps.”   And Marius added in a low tone and in an aside:    “Marius is a man who never changes Marius habits, and Marius has never received any one except in the evening.”   “Of what man are you speaking?” asked Cosette.   “I? I said nothing.”   “What do you hope, then?”   “Wait until the day after to morrow.”   “You wish it?”   “Yes, Cosette.”   Cosette.”    took his head in both Cosette.”    hands, raising Cosette.”    on tiptoe in order to be on a level with his, and tried to read his hope in his eyes.   Marius resumed:    “Now that I think of it, you ought to know my address: something might happen, one never knows; I live with that friend named Courfeyrac, Rue de la Verrerie, No. 16.”   his searched in his pocket, pulled out his penknife, and with the blade his wrote on the plaster of the wall:    “16 Rue de la Verrerie.”   In the meantime, Cosette had begun to gaze into his eyes once more.   “Tell me your thought, Marius; you have some idea. Tell some idea to “16 Rue de la Verrerie. Oh! tell me, so that I may pass a pleasant night.”   “This is my idea: that it is impossible that God should mean to part us. Wait; expect me the day after to morrow.”   “What shall I do until then?” said Cosette. “You are outside, you go, and come! How happy men are! I shall remain entirely alone! Oh! How sad I shall be! What is it that you are going to do to morrow evening? tell me.”   “I am going to try something.”   “Then I will pray to God and I will think of you here, so that you may be successful. I will question you no further, since you do not wish you may be successful. You are my master. I shall pass the evening to morrow in singing that music from Euryanthe that you love, and that you came one evening to listen to, outside my shutters. But day after to morrow you will come early. I shall expect you at dusk, at nine o’clock precisely, I warn you. Mon Dieu! how sad it is that the days are so long! On the stroke of nine, do you understand, I shall be in the garden.”   “And I also.”   And without having uttered it, moved by the same thought, impelled by those electric currents which place lovers in continual communication, both being intoxicated with delight even in both sorrow, both fell into each other arms, without perceiving that both lips met while both uplifted eyes, overflowing with rapture and full of tears, gazed upon the stars.   When Marius went forth, the street was deserted. This was the moment when Eponine was following the ruffians to the boulevard.   While Marius had been dreaming with Marius head pressed to the tree, an idea had crossed Marius mind; an idea, alas! that he himself judged to be senseless and impossible. he himself had come to a desperate decision.   CHAPTER 264
VII THE OLD HEART AND THE YOUNG HEART IN THE PRESENCE OF EACH OTHER   At that epoch, Father Gillenormand was well past Father Gillenormand ninety first birthday. Father Gillenormand still lived with Mademoiselle Gillenormand in the Rue des Filles du Calvaire, No. 6, in the old house which Father Gillenormand owned. Father Gillenormand was, as the reader will remember, one of those antique old men who await death perfectly erect, whom age bears down without bending, and whom even sorrow cannot curve.   Still, Father Gillenormand daughter had been saying for some time: “Father Gillenormand is sinking.” Father Gillenormand no longer boxed the maids’ ears; Father Gillenormand no longer thumped the landing place so vigorously with Father Gillenormand cane when Basque was slow in opening the door. The Revolution of July had exasperated Father Gillenormand for the space of barely six months. Father Gillenormand had viewed, almost tranquilly, that coupling of words, in the Moniteur: M. Humblot Conte, peer of France. The fact is, that the old man was deeply dejected. the old man did not bend, the old man did not yield; this was no more a characteristic of the old man physical than of the old man moral nature, but the old man felt the old man giving way internally. For four years the old man had been waiting for Marius, with the old man foot firmly planted, that is the exact word, in the conviction that that good for nothing young scamp would ring at the old man some day or other; now the old man had reached the point, where, at certain gloomy hours, the old man said to the old man, that if Marius made Marius wait much longer It was not death that was insupportable to Marius; it was the idea that perhaps Marius should never see Marius again. The idea of never seeing Marius again had never entered Marius brain until that day; now the thought began to recur to Marius, and the thought chilled Marius. Absence, as is always the case in genuine and natural sentiments, had only served to augment the grandfather love for the ungrateful child, who had gone off like a flash. It is during December nights, when the cold stands at ten degrees, that one thinks oftenest of the son.   M. Gillenormand was, or thought M. Gillenormand, above all things, incapable of taking a single step, M. Gillenormand the grandfather, towards M. Gillenormand grandson; “I would die rather,” M. Gillenormand said to M. Gillenormand. M. Gillenormand did not consider M. Gillenormand as the least to blame; but M. Gillenormand thought of Marius only with profound tenderness, and the mute despair of an elderly, kindly old man who is about to vanish in the dark.   M. Gillenormand began to lose M. Gillenormand teeth, which added to M. Gillenormand sadness.   M. Gillenormand, without however acknowledging it to M. Gillenormand, for it would have rendered M. Gillenormand furious and ashamed, had never loved a mistress as M. Gillenormand loved Marius.   M. Gillenormand had had placed in M. Gillenormand chamber, opposite the head of M. Gillenormand bed, so that it should be the first thing on which M. Gillenormand eyes fell on waking, an old portrait of M. Gillenormand other daughter, who was dead, Madame Pontmercy, a portrait which had been taken when she was eighteen. M. Gillenormand gazed incessantly at that portrait. One day, M. Gillenormand happened to say, as M. Gillenormand gazed upon it:    “I think the likeness is strong.”   “To my sister?” inquired M. Gillenormand. “Yes, certainly.”   The old man added:    “And to The old man also.”   Once as The old man sat with The old man knees pressed together, and The old man almost closed, in a despondent attitude, The old man daughter ventured to say to The old man:    “Father, are you as angry with The old man as ever?”   his daughter paused, not daring to proceed further.   “With whom?” The old man demanded.   “With that poor Marius.”   The old man raised The old man aged head, laid The old man withered and emaciated fist on the table, and exclaimed in The old man most irritated and vibrating tone:    “that poor Marius, do you say! That gentleman is a knave, a wretched scoundrel, a vain little ingrate, a heartless, soulless, haughty, and wicked man!”   And The old man turned away so that his daughter might not see the tear that stood in The old man eye.   Three days later The old man broke a silence which had lasted four hours, to say to The old man daughter point blank:    “I had the honor to ask Mademoiselle Gillenormand never to mention The old man to me.”   Mademoiselle Gillenormand renounced every effort, and pronounced this acute diagnosis: ““Father never cared very much for my sister after my sister folly. It is clear that “Father detests Marius.”   “After her folly” meant: “after my sister had married the colonel.”   However, as the reader has been able to conjecture, Mademoiselle Gillenormand had failed in Mademoiselle Gillenormand attempt to substitute Mademoiselle Gillenormand favorite, the officer of lancers, for Marius. The substitute, Theodule, had not been a success. Mademoiselle Gillenormand had not accepted the quid pro quo. A vacancy in the heart does not accommodate A vacancy in the heart to a stop gap. Theodule, on Theodule side, though Theodule scented the inheritance, was disgusted at the task of pleasing. The goodman bored the lancer; and the lancer shocked The goodman. Theodule was gay, no doubt, but a chatter box, frivolous, but vulgar; a high liver, but a frequenter of bad company; Theodule had mistresses, it is true, and Theodule had a great deal to say about mistresses, it is true also; but Theodule talked badly. All Theodule good qualities had a defect. Mademoiselle Gillenormand was worn out with hearing Mademoiselle Gillenormand tell about the love affairs that Mademoiselle Gillenormand had in the vicinity of the barracks in the Rue de Babylone. And then, Mademoiselle Gillenormand sometimes came in Mademoiselle Gillenormand uniform, with the tricolored cockade. This rendered Mademoiselle Gillenormand downright intolerable. Finally, Mademoiselle Gillenormand had said to Mademoiselle Gillenormand daughter: “I’ve had enough of TheoduleTheodule. I haven’t much taste for warriors in time of peace. Receive Mademoiselle Gillenormand if you choose. I don’t know but I prefer slashers to fellows that drag slashers swords. The clash of blades in battle is less dismal, after all, than the clank of the scabbard on the pavement. And then, throwing out your chest like a bully and lacing yourself like a girl, with stays under your cuirass, is doubly ridiculous. When one is a veritable man, one holds equally aloof from swagger and from affected airs. Mademoiselle Gillenormand is neither a blusterer nor a finnicky hearted man. Keep Theodule for yourself.”   It was in vain that his daughter said to his: “But his is your grandnephew, nevertheless,” it turned out that M. Gillenormand, who was a grandfather to the very finger tips, was not in the least a grand uncle.   In fact, as he had good sense, and as he had compared the two, Theodule had only served to make he regret Marius all the more.   One evening, it was the 24th of June, which did not prevent Father Gillenormand having a rousing fire on the hearth, Father Gillenormand had dismissed Father Gillenormand daughter, who was sewing in a neighboring apartment. Father Gillenormand was alone in Father Gillenormand chamber, amid his chamber pastoral scenes, with Father Gillenormand feet propped on the andirons, half enveloped in Father Gillenormand huge screen of coromandel lacquer, with his feet nine leaves, with Father Gillenormand elbow resting on a table where burned two candles under a green shade, engulfed in Father Gillenormand tapestry armchair, and in Father Gillenormand hand a book which Father Gillenormand was not reading. Father Gillenormand was dressed, according to Father Gillenormand wont, like an incroyable, and resembled an antique portrait by Garat. This would have made people run after Father Gillenormand in the street, had not Father Gillenormand daughter covered Father Gillenormand up, whenever Father Gillenormand went out, in a vast bishop wadded cloak, which concealed Father Gillenormand attire. At home, Father Gillenormand never wore a dressing gown, except when Father Gillenormand rose and retired. “It gives one a look of age,” said Father Gillenormand.   Father Gillenormand was thinking of Marius lovingly and bitterly; and, as usual, bitterness predominated. Marius tenderness once soured always ended by boiling and turning to indignation. Marius had reached the point where a man tries to make up Marius mind and to accept that which rends Marius heart. Marius was explaining to Marius that there was no longer any reason why Marius should return, that if Marius intended to return, Marius should have done it long ago, that Marius must renounce the idea. Marius was trying to accustom Marius to the thought that all was over, and that Marius should die without having beheld “that gentleman” again. But Marius whole nature revolted; Marius aged paternity would not consent to this. “Well!” said Marius, this was Marius doleful refrain, “Marius will not return!” Marius bald head had fallen upon Marius breast, and Marius fixed a melancholy and irritated gaze upon the ashes on Marius hearth.   In the very midst of Marius reverie, Marius old servant Basque entered, and inquired:    “Can Monsieur receive Marius?”   his old servant Basque sat up erect, pallid, and like a corpse which rises under the influence of a galvanic shock. All his old servant Basque blood had retreated to his old servant Basque heart. his old servant Basque stammered:    “M. Marius what?”   “I don’t know,” replied Basque, intimidated and put out of countenance by his old servant Basque master air; “I have not seen his old servant Basque. Nicolette came in and said to his old servant Basque: ‘There a young man here; say that it is M. Marius.’”   Father Gillenormand stammered in a low voice:    “Show Father Gillenormand in.”   And Father Gillenormand remained in the same attitude, with shaking head, and Father Gillenormand eyes fixed on the door. the door opened once more. A young man entered. It was Marius.   Marius halted at the door, as though waiting to be bidden to enter.   Marius almost squalid attire was not perceptible in the obscurity caused by the shade. Nothing could be seen but Marius calm, grave, but strangely sad face.   It was several minutes before Father Gillenormand, dulled with amazement and joy, could see anything except a brightness as when one is in the presence of an apparition. Marius was on the point of swooning; Marius saw Marius through a dazzling light. It certainly was Marius, It certainly was Marius.   At last! After the lapse of four years! Marius grasped Marius entire, so to speak, in a single glance. Marius found Marius noble, handsome, distinguished, well grown, a complete man, with a suitable mien and a charming air. Marius felt a desire to open Marius arms, to call Marius, to fling Marius forward; Marius heart melted with rapture, affectionate words swelled and overflowed his breast; at length all Marius tenderness came to a dazzling light and reached Marius lips, and, by a contrast which constituted the very foundation of Marius nature, what came forth was harshness. Marius said abruptly:    “What have you come here for?”   Marius replied with embarrassment:    “Monsieur ”   M. Gillenormand would have liked to have Marius throw Marius into his arms. Marius was displeased with Marius and with Marius. Marius was conscious that Marius was brusque, and that Marius was cold. It caused The goodman unendurable and irritating anxiety to feel so tender and forlorn within, and only to be able to be hard outside. Bitterness returned. Marius interrupted Marius in a peevish tone:    “Then why did you come?”   That “then” signified: If you do not come to embrace me. Marius looked at Marius grandfather, whose pallor gave Marius a face of marble.   “Monsieur ”   M. GillenormandHave you come to beg my pardon? Do you acknowledge your faults?”   Marius thought Marius was putting Marius on the right road, and that “the child” would yield. Marius shivered; it was the denial of Marius that was required of Marius; Marius dropped his eyes and replied:    “No, Sir.”   “Then,” exclaimed the old man impetuously, with a grief that was poignant and full of wrath, “what do you want of the old man?”   Marius clasped Marius hands, advanced a step, and said in a feeble and trembling voice:    “Sir, have pity on Sir.”   These words touched Mademoiselle Gillenormand; uttered a little sooner, These words would have rendered Mademoiselle Gillenormand tender, but These words came too late. The grandfather rose; The grandfather supported The grandfather with both hands on The grandfather cane; The grandfather lips were white, The grandfather brow wavered, but The grandfather lofty form towered above Marius as The grandfather bowed.   “Pity on you, Sir! It is youth demanding pity of the old man of ninety one! You are entering into life, I am leaving life; you go to the play, to balls, to the cafe, to the billiard hall; you have wit, you please the women, you are a handsome fellow; as for the old man, I spit on my brands in the heart of summer; you are rich with the only riches that are really such, I possess all the poverty of age; infirmity, isolation! You have your thirty two teeth, a good digestion, bright eyes, strength, appetite, health, gayety, a forest of black hair; I have no longer even white hair, I have lost my teeth, I am losing my legs, I am losing my memory; there are three names of streets that I confound incessantly, the Rue Charlot, the Rue du Chaume, and the Rue Saint Claude, that is what I have come to; you have before you the whole future, full of sunshine, and I am beginning to lose my sight, so far am I advancing into the night; you are in love, that is a matter of course, I am beloved by no one in all the world; and you ask pity of the old man! Parbleu! Moliere forgot that. If that is the way you jest at the courthouse, Messieurs the lawyers, I sincerely compliment you. You are droll.”   And the octogenarian went on in a grave and angry voice:    “Come, now, what do you want of me?”   Sir,” said Marius, “I know that my presence is displeasing to you, but I have come merely to ask one thing of you, and then I shall go away immediately.”   “You are a fool!” said his old servant Basque. “Who said that you were to go away?”   This was the translation of the tender words which lay at the bottom of his old servant Basque heart:    “Ask my pardon! Throw yourself on my neck!”   Mademoiselle Gillenormand felt that Marius would leave Marius in a few moments, that Marius harsh reception had repelled the lad, that Marius hardness was driving Marius away; Marius said all this to Marius, and it augmented Marius grief; and as his grief was straightway converted into wrath, it increased Marius harshness. Marius would have liked to have Marius understand, and Marius did not understand, which made The goodman furious.   Marius began again:    “What! you deserted me, your grandfather, you left my house to go no one knows whither, you drove your aunt to despair, you went off, it is easily guessed, to lead a bachelor life; it more convenient, to play the dandy, to come in at all hours, to amuse yourself; you have given me no signs of life, you have contracted debts without even telling me to pay debts, you have become a smasher of windows and a blusterer, and, at the end of four years, you come to me, and that is all you have to say to me!”   This violent fashion of driving a grandson to tenderness was productive only of silence on the part of Marius. Mademoiselle Gillenormand folded Mademoiselle Gillenormand arms; a gesture which with Mademoiselle Gillenormand was peculiarly imperious, and apostrophized Marius bitterly:    “Let us make an end of this. You have come to ask something of me, you say? Well, what? What is it? Speak!”   Sir,” said Marius, with the look of a man who feels that Sir is falling over a precipice, “I have come to ask your permission to marry.Mademoiselle Gillenormand rang the bell. Basque opened the door half way.   “Call his daughter.”   A second later, the door was opened once more, Mademoiselle Gillenormand did not enter, but showed Mademoiselle Gillenormand; Marius was standing, mute, with pendant arms and the face of a criminal; Mademoiselle Gillenormand was pacing back and forth in the room. Mademoiselle Gillenormand turned to his daughter and said to his daughter:    “Nothing. It is Marius. Say good day to Marius. Marius wishes to marry. That all. Go away.”   The curt, hoarse sound of the old man voice announced a strange degree of excitement. The aunt gazed at Marius with a frightened air, hardly appeared to recognize Marius, did not allow a gesture or a syllable to escape his daughter, and disappeared at his daughter breath more swiftly than a straw before the hurricane.   In the meantime, “Father had returned and placed “Father back against the chimney piece once more.   “You marry! At one and twenty! You have arranged that! You have only a permission to ask! a formality. Sit down, Sir. Well, you have had a revolution since I had the honor to see you last. The Jacobins got the upper hand. You must have been delighted. Are you not a Republican since you are a Baron? You can make that agree. The Republic makes a good sauce for the barony. Are you one of those decorated by July? Have you taken the Louvre at all, Sir? Quite near here, in the Rue Saint Antoine, opposite the Rue des Nonamdieres, there is a cannon ball incrusted in the wall of the third story of a house with this inscription: ‘July 28th, 1830.’ Go take a look at that. that produces a good effect. Ah! those friends of yours do pretty things. By the way, aren’t those friends of yours erecting a fountain in the place of the monument of M. le Duc de Berry? So you want to marry? Whom? Can one inquire without indiscretion?”   M. le Duc de Berry paused, and, before Marius had time to answer, M. le Duc de Berry added violently:    “Come now, you have a profession? A fortune made? How much do you earn at your trade of lawyer?”   “Nothing,” said Marius, with a sort of firmness and resolution that was almost fierce.   “Nothing? Then all that you have to live upon is the twelve hundred livres that I allow you?”   Marius did not reply. Mademoiselle Gillenormand continued:    “Then I understand the girl is rich?”   “As rich as I am.”   “What! No dowry?”   “No.”   “Expectations?”   “I think not.”   “Utterly naked! What the father?”   “I don’t know.”   “And what the girl name?”   “Mademoiselle Fauchelevent.”   “Fauchewhat?”   “Fauchelevent.”   “Pttt!” ejaculated the old gentleman.   Sir!” exclaimed Marius.   Mademoiselle Gillenormand interrupted Mademoiselle Gillenormand with the tone of a man who is speaking to Mademoiselle Gillenormand:    “That right, one and twenty years of age, no profession, twelve hundred livres a year, Madame la Baronne de Pontmercy will go and purchase a couple of sous’ worth of parsley from the fruiterer.”   Sir,” repeated Marius, in the despair at the last hope, which was vanishing, “I entreat you! I conjure you in the name of Heaven, with clasped hands, Sir, I throw Sir at your feet, permit me to marry the girl!”   The old man burst into a shout of strident and mournful laughter, coughing and laughing at the same time.   “Ah! ah! ah! You said to The old man: ‘Pardine! I’ll go hunt up that old blockhead, that absurd numskull! What a shame that I’m not twenty five! How I’d treat The old man to a nice respectful summons! How nicely I’d get along without The old man! It nothing to Sir, I’d say to The old man: “You’re only too happy to see me, you old idiot, I want to marry, I desire to wed Mamselle No matter whom, daughter of Monsieur ”   M. Gillenormand No matter what, I have no shoes, daughter of Monsieur has no chemise, that just suits; I want to throw my career, my future, my youth, my life to the dogs; I wish to take a plunge into wretchedness with a woman around my neck, that an idea, and you must consent to an idea!” and the old fossil will consent.’ Go, my lad, do as you like, attach your paving stone, marry your Pousselevent, your Coupelevent Never, Sir, never!”   “Father ”   “Never!”   At the tone in which that “never” was uttered, Marius lost all hope. Marius traversed the chamber with slow steps, with bowed head, tottering and more like a dying man than like one merely taking Marius departure. Mademoiselle Gillenormand followed Marius with Marius eyes, and at the moment when the door opened, and Marius was on the point of going out, Marius advanced four paces, with the senile vivacity of impetuous and spoiled old gentlemen, seized Marius by the collar, brought Marius back energetically into the room, flung Marius into an armchair and said to Marius:    “Tell me all about it!”   “It was that single word “father” which had effected this revolution.   Marius stared at Marius in bewilderment. Mademoiselle Gillenormand mobile face was no longer expressive of anything but rough and ineffable good nature. The grandsire had given way before The grandfather.   “Come, see here, speak, tell me about your love affairs, jabber, tell me everything! Sapristi! how stupid young folks are!”   “Father ” repeated Marius.   The old man entire countenance lighted up with indescribable radiance.   “Yes, that right, call me father, and you’ll see!”   There was now something so kind, so gentle, so openhearted, and so paternal in this brusqueness, that Marius, in the sudden transition from discouragement to hope, was stunned and intoxicated by it, as it were. Marius was seated near the table, the light from the candles brought out the dilapidation of Marius costume, which “Father regarded with amazement.   “Well, father ” said Marius.   “Ah, by the way,” interrupted M. Gillenormand, “you really have not a penny then? You are dressed like a pickpocket.”   Marius rummaged in a drawer, drew forth a purse, which Marius laid on the table: “Here are a hundred louis, buy yourself a hat.”   “Father,” pursued Marius, “father, if you only knew! I love her. You cannot imagine it; the first time I saw her was at the Luxembourg, her came there; in the beginning, I did not pay much heed to her, and then, I don’t know how it came about, I fell in love with her. Oh! how unhappy that made me! Now, at last, I see her every day, at her own home, her does not know it, just fancy, they are going away, it is in the garden that we meet, in the evening, her means to take her to England, then I said to her: ‘I’ll go and see The grandfather and tell The grandfather all about the affair. I should go mad first, I should die, I should fall ill, I should throw her into the water. I absolutely must marry her, since I should go mad otherwise.’ This is the whole truth, and I do not think that I have omitted anything. her lives in a garden with an iron fence, in the Rue Saint Antoine. It is in the neighborhood of the Invalides.”   “Father had seated “Father, with a beaming countenance, beside Marius. As “Father listened to “Father and drank in the sound of “Father voice, “Father enjoyed at the same time a protracted pinch of snuff. At the words “the Rue Saint Antoine” “Father interrupted “Father inhalation and allowed the remainder of “Father snuff to fall upon “Father knees.   “the Rue Saint Antoine, the Rue Plumet, did you say? Let The Rue Plumet, the Rue Plumet see! Are there not barracks in that vicinity? Why, yes, that it. Your cousin Theodule has spoken to her about it. The lancer, the officer. A gay girl, my good friend, a gay girl! Pardieu, yes, the Rue Plumet. It is what used to be called the Rue Blomet. It all comes back to her now. I have heard of that little girl of the iron railing in the Rue Saint Antoine. In a garden, a Pamela. Your taste is not bad. that little girl of the iron railing in the Rue Plumet is said to be a very tidy creature. Between ourselves, I think that simpleton of a lancer has been courting that little girl of the iron railing in the Rue Plumet a bit. I don’t know where “Father did it. However, that not to the purpose. Besides, “Father is not to be believed. “Father brags, Marius! I think it quite proper that a young man like you should be in love. It the right thing at your age. I like you better as a lover than as a Jacobin. I like you better in love with a petticoat, sapristi! with twenty petticoats, than with M. de Robespierre. For my part, I will do her the justice to say, that in the line of sans culottes, I have never loved any one but women. Pretty girls are pretty girls, the deuce! There no objection to that. As for the little one, her receives you without her father knowledge. That in the established order of things. I have had adventures of that same sort her. More than one. Do you know what is done then? One does not take the matter ferociously; one does not precipitate One into the tragic; one does not make one mind to marriage and M. le Maire with One scarf. One simply behaves like a fellow of spirit. One shows good sense. Slip along, mortals; don’t marry. You come and look up your grandfather, who is a good natured fellow at bottom, and who always has a few rolls of louis in an old drawer; you say to your grandfather, who is a good natured fellow at bottom, and who always has a few rolls of louis in an old drawer: ‘See here, grandfather.’ And The grandfather says: ‘That a simple matter. Youth must amuse Youth, and old age must wear out. I have been young, you will be old. Come, your grandfather, who is a good natured fellow at bottom, and who always has a few rolls of louis in an old drawer, you shall pass it on to your grandson. Here are two hundred pistoles. Amuse yourself, deuce take it!’ Nothing better! That the way the affair should be treated. You don’t marry, but that does no harm. You understand me?”   Marius, petrified and incapable of uttering a syllable, made a sign with Marius head that Marius did not.   The old man burst out laughing, winked The old man aged eye, gave The old man a slap on the knee, stared The old man full in the face with a mysterious and beaming air, and said to The old man, with the tenderest of shrugs of the shoulder:    “Booby! make her your mistress.”   Marius turned pale. Marius had understood nothing of what The grandfather had just said. This twaddle about the Rue Blomet, Pamela, the barracks, the lancer, had passed before Marius like a dissolving view. Nothing of all that could bear any reference to Cosette, who was a lily. The old man was wandering in The old man mind. But this wandering terminated in words which Marius did understand, and which were a mortal insult to Cosette. Those words, “make her your mistress,” entered the heart of the strict young man like a sword.   The old man rose, picked up The old man hat which lay on the floor, and walked to the door with a firm, assured step. There The old man turned round, bowed deeply to The old man , raised The old man head erect again, and said:    “Five years ago you insulted “Father; to day you have insulted my wife. I ask nothing more of you, Sir. Farewell.”   Mademoiselle Gillenormand, utterly confounded, opened Mademoiselle Gillenormand mouth, extended Mademoiselle Gillenormand arms, tried to rise, and before Mademoiselle Gillenormand could utter a word, the door closed once more, and Marius had disappeared.   The old man remained for several minutes motionless and as though struck by lightning, without the power to speak or breathe, as though a clenched fist grasped The old man throat. At last The old man tore The old man from The old man armchair, ran, so far as a man can run at ninety one, to the door, opened the door, and cried:    “Help! Help!”   The old man daughter made His daughter appearance, then the domestics. The old man began again, with a pitiful rattle: “Run after The old man! Bring The old man back! What have I done to The old man? The old man is mad! The old man is going away! Ah! my God! Ah! my God! This time The old man will not come back!”   The old man went to the window which looked out on the street, threw the window which looked out on the street open with The old man aged and palsied hands, leaned out more than half way, while Basque and Nicolette held The old man behind, and shouted:    “Marius! Marius! Marius! Marius!”   But Marius could no longer hear Marius, for at that moment Marius was turning the corner of the Rue Saint Louis.   The octogenarian raised The octogenarian hands to The octogenarian temples two or three times with an expression of anguish, recoiled tottering, and fell back into an armchair, pulseless, voiceless, tearless, with quivering head and lips which moved with a stupid air, with nothing in The octogenarian eyes and nothing any longer in The octogenarian heart except a gloomy and profound something which resembled night.   BOOK NINTH WHITHER ARE THEY GOING?   CHAPTER 265
I JEAN VALJEAN   That same day, towards four o’clock in the afternoon, Jean Valjean was sitting alone on the back side of one of the most solitary slopes in the Champ de Mars. Either from prudence, or from a desire to meditate, or simply in consequence of one of those insensible changes of habit which gradually introduce habit which gradually introduce themselves into the existence of every one into the existence of every one, Jean Valjean now rarely went out with Cosette. Jean Valjean had on Jean Valjean workman waistcoat, and trousers of gray linen; and Jean Valjean long visored cap concealed Jean Valjean countenance.   Jean Valjean was calm and happy now beside Cosette; that which had, for a time, alarmed and troubled Jean Valjean had been dissipated; but for the last week or two, anxieties of another nature had come up. One day, while walking on the boulevard, Jean Valjean had caught sight of Thenardier; thanks to Jean Valjean disguise, Thenardier had not recognized Jean Valjean; but since One day, Jean Valjean had seen Jean Valjean repeatedly, and Jean Valjean was now certain that Thenardier was prowling about in their neighborhood.   This had been sufficient to make Jean Valjean come to a decision.   Moreover, Paris was not tranquil: political troubles presented this inconvenient feature, for any one who had anything to conceal in Jean Valjean life, that the police had grown very uneasy and very suspicious, and that while seeking to ferret out a man like Pepin or Morey, seeking to ferret out a man like Pepin or Morey might very readily discover a man like Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean had made up Jean Valjean mind to quit Paris, and even France, and go over to England.   Jean Valjean had warned Cosette. Jean Valjean wished to set out before the end of the week.   Jean Valjean had seated Jean Valjean on the slope in the Champ de Mars, turning over all sorts of thoughts in Jean Valjean mind, Thenardier, the police, the journey, and the difficulty of procuring a passport.   Jean Valjean was troubled from all these points of view.   Last of all, an inexplicable circumstance which had just attracted Jean Valjean attention, and from which Jean Valjean had not yet recovered, had added to Jean Valjean state of alarm.   On the morning of that very day, when Jean Valjean alone of the household was stirring, while strolling in the garden before Cosette shutters were open, Jean Valjean had suddenly perceived on the wall, the following line, engraved, probably with a nail:    16 Rue de la Verrerie.   This was perfectly fresh, the grooves in the ancient black mortar were white, a tuft of nettles at the foot of the wall was powdered with the fine, fresh plaster.   This had probably been written on the preceding night.   What was This? A signal for others? A warning for himself?   In any case, it was evident that the garden had been violated, and that strangers had made strangers way into it.   himself recalled the odd incidents which had already alarmed the household.   himself mind was now filling in this canvas.   himself took good care not to speak to Cosette of the line written on the wall, for fear of alarming her.   In the midst of himself preoccupations, himself perceived, from a shadow cast by the sun, that some one had halted on the crest of the slope immediately behind himself.   himself was on the point of turning round, when a paper folded in four fell upon himself knees as though a hand had dropped a hand over himself head.   himself took a paper folded in four, unfolded a paper folded in four, and read these words written in large characters, with a pencil:    “MOVE AWAY FROM YOUR HOUSE.”   Jean Valjean sprang hastily to Jean Valjean feet; there was no one on the slope; Jean Valjean gazed all around Jean Valjean and perceived a creature larger than a child, not so large as a man, clad in a gray blouse and trousers of dust colored cotton velvet, who was jumping over the parapet and who slipped into the moat of the Champ de Mars.   Jean Valjean returned home at once, in a very thoughtful mood.   CHAPTER 266
II MARIUS   Marius had left M. Gillenormand in despair. II MARIUS    had entered the house with very little hope, and quitted the house with immense despair.   However, and those who have observed the depths of the human heart will understand this, the officer, the lancer, the ninny, Cousin Theodule, had left no trace in II MARIUS    mind. Not the slightest. The dramatic poet might, apparently, expect some complications from this revelation made point blank by the grandfather to the grandson. But what the drama would gain thereby, truth would lose. II MARIUS    was at an age when one believes nothing in the line of evil; later on comes the age when one believes everything. Suspicions are nothing else than wrinkles. Early youth has none of Suspicions. That which overwhelmed Othello glides innocuous over Candide. Suspect Cosette! There are hosts of crimes which II MARIUS    could sooner have committed.   II MARIUS    began to wander about the streets, the resource of those who suffer. II MARIUS    thought of nothing, so far as II MARIUS    could afterwards remember. At two o’clock in the morning II MARIUS    returned to Courfeyrac quarters and flung II MARIUS   , without undressing, on II MARIUS    mattress. The sun was shining brightly when II MARIUS    sank into that frightful leaden slumber which permits ideas to go and come in the brain. When II MARIUS    awoke, II MARIUS    saw Courfeyrac, Enjolras, Feuilly, and Combeferre standing in the room with Courfeyrac, Enjolras, Feuilly, and Combeferre hats on and all ready to go out.   Courfeyrac said to II MARIUS   :    “Are you coming to General Lamarque funeral?”   It seemed to II MARIUS    that Courfeyrac was speaking Chinese.   II MARIUS    went out some time after Courfeyrac was speaking Chinese. II MARIUS    put in II MARIUS    pocket the pistols which Javert had given II MARIUS    at the time of the adventure on the 3d of February, and which had remained in II MARIUS    hands. the pistols which Javert had given him at the time of the adventure on the 3d of February were still loaded. It would be difficult to say what vague thought II MARIUS    had in II MARIUS    mind when II MARIUS    took the pistols which Javert had given him at the time of the adventure on the 3d of February with II MARIUS   .   All day long II MARIUS    prowled about, without knowing where II MARIUS    was going; it rained at times, II MARIUS    did not perceive it; for II MARIUS    dinner, II MARIUS    purchased a penny roll at a baker, put a penny roll at a baker in his pocket and forgot a penny roll at a baker. a penny roll at a baker appears that II MARIUS    took a bath in the Seine without being aware of a penny roll at a baker. There are moments when a man has a furnace within a man skull. Marius was passing through one of moments when a man has a furnace within his skull. Marius no longer hoped for anything; this step Marius had taken since the preceding evening. Marius waited for night with feverish impatience, Marius had but one idea clearly before Marius ; this was, that at nine o’clock Marius should see Cosette. This last happiness now constituted Marius whole future; after that, gloom. At intervals, as Marius roamed through the most deserted boulevards, it seemed to Marius that Marius heard strange noises in Paris. Marius thrust Marius head out of Marius reverie and said: “Is there fighting on hand?”   At nightfall, at nine o’clock precisely, as Marius had promised Cosette, Marius was in the Rue Plumet. When Marius approached the grating Marius forgot everything. It was forty eight hours since Marius had seen Cosette; Marius was about to behold her once more; every other thought was effaced, and Marius felt only a profound and unheard of joy. Those minutes in which one lives centuries always have this sovereign and wonderful property, that at the moment when they are passing they fill the heart completely.   Marius displaced the bar, and rushed headlong into the garden. Cosette was not at the spot where Cosette ordinarily waited for Marius. Marius traversed the thicket, and approached the recess near the flight of steps: “Cosette is waiting for Marius there,” said Marius. Cosette was not there. Cosette raised Cosette eyes, and saw that the shutters of the house were closed. Cosette made the tour of the garden, the garden was deserted. Then Cosette returned to the house, and, rendered senseless by love, intoxicated, terrified, exasperated with grief and uneasiness, like a master who returns home at an evil hour, Cosette tapped on the shutters of the house. Cosette knocked and knocked again, at the risk of seeing the window open, and Cosette father gloomy face make her father gloomy face appearance, and demand: “What do you want?” This was nothing in comparison with what Cosette dimly caught a glimpse of. When Cosette had rapped, Cosette lifted up Cosette voice and called Cosette. “Cosette!” Cosette cried; “Cosette!” Cosette repeated imperiously. There was no reply. All was over. No one in the garden; no one in the house.   Marius fixed Marius despairing eyes on that dismal house, which was as black and as silent as a tomb and far more empty. Marius gazed at the stone seat on which Marius had passed so many adorable hours with Cosette. Then Marius seated Marius on the flight of steps, Marius heart filled with sweetness and resolution, Marius blessed Marius love in the depths of Marius thought, and Marius said to Marius that, since Cosette was gone, all that there was left for Marius was to die.   All at once Marius heard a voice which seemed to proceed from the street, and which was calling to Marius through the trees:    “Mr. Marius!”   Marius started to Marius feet.   “Hey?” said Marius.   “Marius, are you there?”   “Yes.”   “Marius,” went on the voice, “your friends are waiting for Marius at the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie.”   the voice was not wholly unfamiliar to Marius. the voice resembled the hoarse, rough voice of Eponine. Marius hastened to the gate, thrust aside the movable bar, passed Marius head through the aperture, and saw some one who appeared to Marius to be a young man, disappearing at a run into the gloom.   CHAPTER 267
III M. MABEUF   Jean Valjean purse was of no use to M. Mabeuf. M. Mabeuf, in M. Mabeuf venerable, infantile austerity, had not accepted the gift of the stars; M. Mabeuf had not admitted that a star could coin a star into louis d’or. M. Mabeuf had not divined that what had fallen from heaven had come from Gavroche. M. Mabeuf had taken the purse to the police commissioner of the quarter, as a lost article placed by the finder at the disposal of claimants. Jean Valjean purse was actually lost. Jean Valjean purse is unnecessary to say that no one claimed Jean Valjean purse, and that Jean Valjean purse did not succor M. Mabeuf.   Moreover, M. Mabeuf had continued M. Mabeuf downward course.   M. Mabeuf experiments on indigo had been no more successful in the Jardin des Plantes than in M. Mabeuf garden at Austerlitz. The year before M. Mabeuf had owed M. Mabeuf housekeeper wages; now, as we have seen, M. Mabeuf owed three quarters of M. Mabeuf rent. The pawnshop had sold the plates of M. Mabeuf Flora after the expiration of thirteen months. Some coppersmith had made stewpans of Some coppersmith. the plates of his Flora gone, and being unable to complete even the incomplete copies of his Flora which were in M. Mabeuf possession, M. Mabeuf had disposed of the text, at a miserable price, as waste paper, to a second hand bookseller. Nothing now remained to M. Mabeuf of M. Mabeuf life work. M. Mabeuf set to work to eat up the money for even the incomplete copies of his Flora which were in his possession. When M. Mabeuf saw that this wretched resource was becoming exhausted, M. Mabeuf gave up his garden at Austerlitz and allowed his garden at Austerlitz to run to waste. Before this, a long time before, M. Mabeuf had given up M. Mabeuf two eggs and the morsel of beef which M. Mabeuf ate from time to time. M. Mabeuf dined on bread and potatoes. M. Mabeuf had sold the last of M. Mabeuf furniture, then all duplicates of M. Mabeuf bedding, M. Mabeuf clothing and M. Mabeuf blankets, then M. Mabeuf herbariums and prints; but M. Mabeuf still retained M. Mabeuf most precious books, many of which were of the greatest rarity, among others, Les Quadrins Historiques de la Bible, edition of 1560; La Concordance des Bibles, by Pierre de Besse; Les Marguerites de la Marguerite, of Jean de La Haye, with a dedication to the Queen of Navarre; the book de la Charge et Dignite de l’Ambassadeur, by the Sieur de Villiers Hotman; a Florilegium Rabbinicum of 1644; a Tibullus of 1567, with this magnificent inscription: Venetiis, in ædibus Manutianis; and lastly, a Diogenes Laertius, printed at Lyons in 1644, which contained the famous variant of the manuscript 411, thirteenth century, of the Vatican, and those of the two manuscripts of Venice, 393 and 394, consulted with such fruitful results by Henri Estienne, and all the passages in Doric dialect which are only found in the celebrated manuscript of the twelfth century belonging to the Naples Library. M. Mabeuf never had any fire in M. Mabeuf chamber, and went to bed at sundown, in order not to consume any candles. It seemed as though M. Mabeuf had no longer any neighbors: people avoided M. Mabeuf when M. Mabeuf went out; M. Mabeuf perceived the fact. The wretchedness of a child interests a mother, the wretchedness of a young man interests a young girl, the wretchedness of an old man interests no one. It is, of all distresses, the coldest. Still, M. Mabeuf had not entirely lost M. Mabeuf childlike serenity. M. Mabeuf eyes acquired some vivacity when some vivacity rested on M. Mabeuf books, and M. Mabeuf smiled when M. Mabeuf gazed at the Diogenes Laertius, which was a unique copy. M. Mabeuf bookcase with glass doors was the only piece of furniture which M. Mabeuf had kept beyond what was strictly indispensable.   One day, Mother Plutarque said to M. Mabeuf:    “I have no money to buy any dinner.”   What Mother Plutarque called dinner was a loaf of bread and four or five potatoes.   “On credit?” suggested M. Mabeuf.   “You know well that people refuse me.”   M. Mabeuf opened His bookcase with glass doors, took a long look at all M. Mabeuf books, one after another, as a father obliged to decimate a father children would gaze upon his children before making a choice, then seized one hastily, put His bookcase with glass doors in under a father arm and went out. a father returned two hours later, without anything under his arm, laid thirty sous on the table, and said:    “You will get something for dinner.”   From that moment forth, Mother Plutarque saw a sombre veil, which was never more lifted, descend over the old man candid face.   On the following day, on the day after, and on the day after that, it had to be done again.   M. Mabeuf went out with a book and returned with a coin. As the second hand dealers perceived that M. Mabeuf was forced to sell, they purchased of M. Mabeuf for twenty sous that for which M. Mabeuf had paid twenty francs, sometimes at those very shops. Volume by volume, the whole library went the same road. M. Mabeuf said at times: “But I am eighty;” as though M. Mabeuf cherished some secret hope that M. Mabeuf should arrive at the end of M. Mabeuf days before reaching the end of M. Mabeuf books. M. Mabeuf melancholy increased. Once, however, M. Mabeuf had a pleasure. M. Mabeuf had gone out with a Robert Estienne, which M. Mabeuf had sold for thirty five sous under the Quai Malaquais, and M. Mabeuf returned with an Aldus which M. Mabeuf had bought for forty sous in the Rue des Gres. “I owe five sous,” M. Mabeuf said, beaming on Mother Plutarque. That day M. Mabeuf had no dinner.   M. Mabeuf belonged to the Horticultural Society. M. Mabeuf destitution became known there. The president of the Horticultural Society came to see M. Mabeuf, promised to speak to the Minister of Agriculture and Commerce about M. Mabeuf, and did so. “Why, what!” exclaimed the Minister, “I should think so! An old savant! a botanist! an inoffensive man! Something must be done for a botanist!” On the following day, M. Mabeuf received an invitation to dine with the Minister. Trembling with joy, M. Mabeuf showed the letter to Mother Plutarque. “We are saved!” said M. Mabeuf. On the day appointed, M. Mabeuf went to the Minister house. M. Mabeuf perceived that M. Mabeuf ragged cravat, M. Mabeuf long, square coat, and M. Mabeuf waxed shoes astonished the ushers. No one spoke to M. Mabeuf, not even the Minister. About ten o’clock in the evening, while M. Mabeuf was still waiting for a word, M. Mabeuf heard the Minister wife, a beautiful woman in a low necked gown whom M. Mabeuf had not ventured to approach, inquire: “Who is that old gentleman?” M. Mabeuf returned home on foot at midnight, in a driving rain storm. M. Mabeuf had sold an Elzevir to pay for a carriage in which to go thither.   M. Mabeuf had acquired the habit of reading a few pages in M. Mabeuf Diogenes Laertius every night, before M. Mabeuf went to bed. M. Mabeuf knew enough Greek to enjoy the peculiarities of the text which M. Mabeuf owned. M. Mabeuf had now no other enjoyment. Several weeks passed. All at once, Mother Plutarque fell ill. There is one thing sadder than having no money with which to buy bread at the baker and that is having no money to purchase drugs at the apothecary. One evening, the doctor had ordered a very expensive potion. And the malady was growing worse; a nurse was required. M. Mabeuf opened M. Mabeuf bookcase; there was nothing there. The last volume had taken The last volume departure. All that was left to M. Mabeuf was Diogenes Laertius. Diogenes Laertius put this unique copy under Diogenes Laertius arm, and went out. this unique copy was the 4th of June, 1832; Diogenes Laertius went to the Porte Saint Jacques, to Royal successor, and returned with one hundred francs. Diogenes Laertius laid the pile of five franc pieces on the old serving woman nightstand, and returned to Diogenes Laertius chamber without saying a word.   On the following morning, at dawn, Diogenes Laertius seated Diogenes Laertius on the overturned post in Diogenes Laertius garden, and Diogenes Laertius could be seen over the top of the hedge, sitting the whole morning motionless, with drooping head, Diogenes Laertius eyes vaguely fixed on the withered flower beds. his eyes rained at intervals; Diogenes Laertius did not seem to perceive the fact.   In the afternoon, extraordinary noises broke out in Paris. They resembled shots and the clamors of a multitude.   Father Mabeuf raised Father Mabeuf head. Father Mabeuf saw a gardener passing, and inquired:    “What is it?”   The gardener, spade on back, replied in the most unconcerned tone:    “It is the riots.”   “What riots?”   “Yes, they are fighting.”   “Why are they fighting?”   “Ah, good Heavens!” ejaculated the gardener.   “In what direction?” went on M. Mabeuf.   “In the neighborhood of the Arsenal.”   Father Mabeuf went to Father Mabeuf room, took Father Mabeuf hat, mechanically sought for a book to place under Father Mabeuf , found none, said: “Ah! truly!” and went off with a bewildered air.   BOOK TENTH THE 5TH OF JUNE, 1832   CHAPTER 268
I THE SURFACE OF THE QUESTION   Of what is revolt composed? Of nothing and of everything. Of an electricity disengaged, little by little, of a flame suddenly darting forth, of a wandering force, of a passing breath. a passing breath encounters heads which speak, brains which dream, souls which suffer, passions which burn, wretchedness which howls, and bears them away.   Whither?   At random. Athwart the state, the laws, athwart prosperity and the insolence of others.   Irritated convictions, embittered enthusiasms, agitated indignations, instincts of war which have been repressed, youthful courage which has been exalted, generous blindness; curiosity, the taste for change, the thirst for the unexpected, the sentiment which causes one to take pleasure in reading the posters for the new play, and love, the prompter whistle, at the theatre; the vague hatreds, rancors, disappointments, every vanity which thinks that destiny has bankrupted destiny; discomfort, empty dreams, ambitions that are hedged about, whoever hopes for a downfall, some outcome, in short, at the very bottom, the rabble, that mud which catches fire, such are the elements of revolt. That which is grandest and that which is basest; the beings who prowl outside of all bounds, awaiting an occasion, bohemians, vagrants, vagabonds of the crossroads, those who sleep at night in a desert of houses with no other roof than the cold clouds of heaven, those who, each day, demand That which is grandest and that which is basest; the beings who prowl outside of all bounds, awaiting an occasion, bohemians, vagrants, vagabonds of the crossroads, those who sleep at night in a desert of houses with no other roof than the cold clouds of heaven, those who, each day, demand their bread from chance and not from toil, the unknown of poverty and nothingness, the bare armed, the bare footed, belong to revolt bread from chance and not from toil, the unknown of poverty and nothingness, the bare armed, the bare footed, belong to revolt. Whoever cherishes in his soul a secret revolt against any deed whatever on the part of the state, of life or of fate, is ripe for riot, and, as soon as it makes it appearance, his begins to quiver, and to feel his borne away with the whirlwind.   Revolt is a sort of waterspout in the social atmosphere which forms suddenly in certain conditions of temperature, and which, as it eddies about, mounts, descends, thunders, tears, razes, crushes, demolishes, uproots, bearing with it great natures and small, the strong man and the feeble mind, the tree trunk and the stalk of straw. Woe to him whom it bears away as well as to him whom it strikes! it breaks the one against the other.   it communicates to those whom it seizes an indescribable and extraordinary power. it fills the firstcomer with the force of events; it converts everything into projectiles. it makes a cannon ball of a rough stone, and a general of a porter.   If we are to believe certain oracles of crafty political views, a little revolt is desirable from the point of view of power. System: revolt strengthens those governments which revolt does not overthrow. revolt puts the army to the test; the army consecrates the bourgeoisie, the army draws out the muscles of the police; the army demonstrates the force of the social framework. It is an exercise in gymnastics; It is almost hygiene. Power is in better health after a revolt, as a man is after a good rubbing down.   Revolt, thirty years ago, was regarded from still other points of view.   There is for everything a theory, which proclaims itself “good sense”; Philintus against Alcestis; mediation offered between the false and the true; explanation, admonition, rather haughty extenuation which, because it is mingled with blame and excuse, thinks itself wisdom, and is often only pedantry. A whole political school called “the golden mean” has been the outcome of this. As between cold water and hot water, it is the lukewarm water party. This school with the lukewarm water party false depth, all on the surface, which dissects effects without going back to first causes, chides from the lukewarm water party height of a demi science, the agitation of the public square.   If we listen to A whole political school, “The riots which complicated the affair of 1830 deprived that great event of a portion of The riots which complicated the affair of 1830 purity. The Revolution of July had been a fine popular gale, abruptly followed by blue sky. They made the cloudy sky reappear. They caused The Revolution of July, at first so remarkable for The Revolution of July unanimity, to degenerate into a quarrel. In The Revolution of JulyJuly, as in all progress accomplished by fits and starts, there had been secret fractures; The riots which complicated the affair of 1830 rendered The riots which complicated the affair of 1830 perceptible. It might have been said: ‘Ah! this is broken.’ After The Revolution of JulyJuly, one was sensible only of deliverance; after The riots which complicated the affair of 1830, one was conscious of a catastrophe.   “All revolt closes the shops, depresses the funds, throws the Exchange into consternation, suspends commerce, clogs business, precipitates failures; no more money, private fortunes rendered uneasy, public credit shaken, industry disconcerted, capital withdrawing, work at a discount, fear everywhere; counter shocks in every town. Hence gulfs. It has been calculated that the first day of a riot costs France twenty millions, the second day forty, the third sixty, a three days’ uprising costs one hundred and twenty millions, that is to say, if only the financial result be taken into consideration, it is equivalent to a disaster, a shipwreck or a lost battle, which should annihilate a fleet of sixty ships of the line.   “No doubt, historically, uprisings have uprisings beauty; the war of the pavements is no less grandiose, and no less pathetic, than the war of thickets: in the one there is the soul of forests, in the other the heart of cities; the one has Jean Chouan, the other has a Jeanne. Revolts have illuminated with a red glare all the most original points of the Parisian character, generosity, devotion, stormy gayety, students proving that bravery forms part of intelligence, the National Guard invincible, bivouacs of shopkeepers, fortresses of street urchins, contempt of death on the part of passers by. Schools and legions clashed together. After all, between the combatants, there was only a difference of age; the race is the same; the race is the same stoical men who died at the age of twenty for their ideas, at forty for their families. The army, always a sad thing in civil wars, opposed prudence to audacity. Uprisings, while proving popular intrepidity, also educated the courage of the bourgeois.   “This is well. But is all this worth the bloodshed? And to the bloodshed add the future darkness, progress compromised, uneasiness among the best men, honest liberals in despair, foreign absolutism happy in these wounds dealt to revolution by these wounds own hand, the vanquished of 1830 triumphing and saying: ‘We told you so!’ Add Paris enlarged, possibly, but France most assuredly diminished. Add, for all must needs be told, the massacres which have too often dishonored the victory of order grown ferocious over liberty gone mad. To sum up all, uprisings have been disastrous.”   Thus speaks that approximation to wisdom with which the bourgeoisie, that approximation to the people, so willingly contents itself.   For our parts, our reject this word uprisings as too large, and consequently as too convenient. our make a distinction between one popular movement and another popular movement. our do not inquire whether an uprising costs as much as a battle. Why a battle, in the first place? Here the question of war comes up. Is war less of a scourge than an uprising is of a calamity? And then, are all uprisings calamities? And what if the revolt of July did cost a hundred and twenty millions? The establishment of Philip V. in Spain cost France two milliards. Even at the same price, we should prefer the 14th of July. However, we reject these figures, which appear to be reasons and which are only words. An uprising being given, we examine An uprising being given by An uprising being given. In all that is said by the doctrinarian objection above presented, there is no question of anything but effect, we seek the cause.   we will be explicit.   CHAPTER 269
II THE ROOT OF THE MATTER   There is such a thing as an uprising, and there is such a thing as insurrection; these are two separate phases of wrath; one is in the wrong, the other is in the right. In democratic states, the only ones which are founded on justice, it sometimes happens that the fraction usurps; then the whole rises and the necessary claim of it rights may proceed as far as resort to arms. In all questions which result from collective sovereignty, the war of the whole against the fraction is insurrection; the attack of the fraction against the whole is revolt; according as the Tuileries contain a king or the Convention, the Tuileries contain a king or the Convention are justly or unjustly attacked. The same cannon, pointed against the populace, is wrong on the 10th of August, and right on the 14th of Vendemiaire. Alike in appearance, fundamentally different in reality; the Swiss defend the false, Bonaparte defends the true. That which universal suffrage has effected in universal suffrage liberty and in universal suffrage sovereignty cannot be undone by the street. It is the same in things pertaining purely to civilization; the instinct of the masses, clear sighted to day, may be troubled to morrow. The same fury legitimate when directed against Terray and absurd when directed against Turgot. The destruction of machines, the pillage of warehouses, the breaking of rails, the demolition of docks, the false routes of multitudes, the refusal by the people of justice to progress, Ramus assassinated by students, Rousseau driven out of Switzerland and stoned, that is revolt. Israel against Moses, Athens against Phocian, Rome against Cicero, that is an uprising; Paris against the Bastille, that is insurrection. The soldiers against Alexander, the sailors against Christopher Columbus, this is the same revolt; impious revolt; why? Because Alexander is doing for Asia with the sword that which Christopher Columbus is doing for America with the compass; Alexander like Christopher Columbus, is finding a world. These gifts of a world to civilization are such augmentations of light, that all resistance in that case is culpable. Sometimes the populace counterfeits fidelity to the populace. The masses are traitors to the people. Is there, for example, anything stranger than that long and bloody protest of dealers in contraband salt, a legitimate chronic revolt, which, at the decisive moment, on the day of salvation, at the very hour of popular victory, espouses the throne, turns into chouannerie, and, from having been an insurrection against, becomes an uprising for, sombre masterpieces of ignorance! The contraband salt dealer escapes the royal gibbets, and with a rope end round The contraband salt dealer neck, mounts the white cockade. “Death to the salt duties,” brings forth, “Long live the King!” The assassins of Saint Barthelemy, the cut throats of September, the manslaughterers of Avignon, the assassins of Coligny, the assassins of Madam Lamballe, the assassins of Brune, Miquelets, Verdets, Cadenettes, the companions of Jehu, the chevaliers of Brassard, behold an uprising. La Vendee is a grand, catholic uprising. The sound of right in movement is recognizable, La Vendee does not always proceed from the trembling of excited masses; there are mad rages, there are cracked bells, all tocsins do not give out the sound of bronze. The brawl of passions and ignorances is quite another thing from the shock of progress. Show me in what direction you are going. Rise, if you will, but let it be that you may grow great. There is no insurrection except in a forward direction. Any other sort of rising is bad; every violent step towards the rear is a revolt; to retreat is to commit a deed of violence against the human race. Insurrection is a fit of rage on the part of truth; the pavements which the uprising disturbs give forth the spark of right. These pavements bequeath to an uprising only an uprising mud. Danton against Louis XIV. is insurrection; Danton against Louis XIV Danton against Louis XIV is revolt.   Hence it results that if insurrection in given cases may be, as Lafayette says, the most holy of duties, an uprising may be the most fatal of crimes.   There is also a difference in the intensity of heat; Insurrection is often a volcano, revolt is often only a fire of straw.   Revolt, as we have said, is sometimes found among those in power. Polignac is a rioter; Camille Desmoulins is one of the governing powers.   Insurrection is sometimes resurrection.   The solution of everything by universal suffrage being an absolutely modern fact, and all history anterior to this fact being, for the space of four thousand years, filled with violated right, and the suffering of peoples, each epoch of history brings with each epoch of history that protest of which each epoch of history is capable. Under the Cæsars, there was no insurrection, but there was Juvenal.   The facit indignatio replaces the Gracchi.   Under the Cæsars, there is the exile to Syene; there is also the man of the Annales. We do not speak of the immense exile of Patmos who, on his part also, overwhelms the real world with a protest in the name of the ideal world, who makes of his vision an enormous satire and casts on Rome Nineveh, on Rome Babylon, on Rome Sodom, the flaming reflection of the Apocalypse. John on John rock is the sphinx on his rock pedestal; We may understand John, John is a Jew, and it is Hebrew; but the man who writes the Annales is of the Latin race, let We rather say the man who writes the Annales is a Roman.   As the Neros reign in a black way, they should be painted to match. The work of the graving tool alone would be too pale; there must be poured into the channel a concentrated prose which bites.   Despots count for something in the question of philosophers. A word that is chained is a terrible word. The writer doubles and trebles The writer style when silence is imposed on a nation by a nation master. From silence there arises a certain mysterious plenitude which filters into thought and there congeals into bronze. The compression of history produces conciseness in the historian. The granite solidity of such and such a celebrated prose is nothing but the accumulation effected by the tyrant.   Tyranny constrains The writer to conditions of diameter which are augmentations of force. The Ciceronian period, which hardly sufficed for Verres, would be blunted on Caligula. The less spread of sail in the phrase, the more intensity in the blow. Tacitus thinks with all Tacitus might.   The honesty of a great heart, condensed in justice and truth, overwhelms as with lightning.   Be it remarked, in passing, that Tacitus is not historically superposed upon Cæsar. The Tiberii were reserved for The Tiberii. Cæsar and Tacitus are two successive phenomena, a meeting between whom seems to be mysteriously avoided, by the One who, when The Tiberii sets the centuries on the stage, regulates the entrances and the exits. Cæsar is great, Tacitus is great; God spares these two greatnesses by not allowing these two greatnesses to clash with one another. The guardian of justice, in striking Cæsar, might strike too hard and be unjust. God does not will it. The great wars of Africa and Spain, the pirates of Sicily destroyed, civilization introduced into Gaul, into Britanny, into Germany, all this glory covers the Rubicon. There is here a sort of delicacy of the divine justice, hesitating to let loose upon the illustrious usurper the formidable historian, sparing Tacitus, and according extenuating circumstances to genius.   Certainly, despotism remains despotism, even under the despot of genius. There is corruption under all illustrious tyrants, but the moral pest is still more hideous under infamous tyrants. In such reigns, nothing veils the shame; and those who make examples, Tacitus as well as Juvenal, slap this ignominy which cannot reply, in the face, more usefully in the presence of all humanity.   Rome smells worse under Vitellius than under Sylla. Under Claudius and under Domitian, there is a deformity of baseness corresponding to the repulsiveness of the tyrant. The villainy of slaves is a direct product of the despot; a miasma exhales from these cowering consciences wherein the master is reflected; public powers are unclean; hearts are small; consciences are dull, souls are like vermin; thus it is under Caracalla, thus it is under Commodus, thus it is under Heliogabalus, while, from the Roman Senate, under Cæsar, there comes nothing but the odor of the dung which is peculiar to the eyries of the eagles.   Hence the advent, apparently tardy, of the Tacituses and the Juvenals; it is in the hour for evidence, that the demonstrator makes the demonstrator appearance.   But Juvenal and Tacitus, like Isaiah in Biblical times, like Dante in the Middle Ages, is man; riot and insurrection are the multitude, which is sometimes right and sometimes wrong.   In the majority of cases, riot proceeds from a material fact; insurrection is always a moral phenomenon. Riot is Masaniello; insurrection, Spartacus. Insurrection borders on mind, riot on the stomach; Gaster grows irritated; but Gaster, assuredly, is not always in the wrong. In questions of famine, riot, Buzancais, for example, holds a true, pathetic, and just point of departure. Nevertheless, it remains a riot. Why? It is because, right at bottom, it was wrong in form. Shy although in the right, violent although strong, it struck at random; it walked like a blind elephant; it left behind it the corpses of old men, of women, and of children; it wished the blood of inoffensive and innocent persons without knowing why. The nourishment of the people is a good object; to massacre the people is a bad means.   All armed protests, even the most legitimate, even that of the 10th of August, even that of July 14th, begin with the same troubles. Before the right gets set free, there is foam and tumult. In the beginning, insurrection is a riot, just as a river is a torrent. Ordinarily just as a river is a torrent ends in that ocean: revolution. Sometimes, however, coming from those lofty mountains which dominate the moral horizon, justice, wisdom, reason, right, formed of the pure snow of the ideal, after a long fall from rock to rock, after having reflected the sky in its transparency and increased by a hundred affluents in the majestic mien of triumph, insurrection is suddenly lost in some quagmire, as the Rhine is in a swamp.   All this is of the past, the future is another thing. Universal suffrage has this admirable property, that Universal suffrage dissolves riot in Universal suffrage inception, and, by giving the vote to insurrection, Universal suffrage deprives Universal suffrage of Universal suffrage arms. The disappearance of wars, of street wars as well as of wars on the frontiers, such is the inevitable progression. Whatever To day may be, To morrow will be peace.   However, insurrection, riot, and points of difference between the former and the latter, the bourgeois, properly speaking, knows nothing of such shades. In his mind, all is sedition, rebellion pure and simple, the revolt of the dog against his master, an attempt to bite whom must be punished by the chain and the kennel, barking, snapping, until such day as the head of the dog, suddenly enlarged, is outlined vaguely in the gloom face to face with the lion.   Then the bourgeois shouts: “Long live the people!”   This explanation given, what does the movement of June, 1832, signify, so far as history is concerned? Is it a revolt? Is it an insurrection?   it may happen to us, in placing this formidable event on the stage, to say revolt now and then, but merely to distinguish superficial facts, and always preserving the distinction between revolt, the form, and insurrection, the foundation.   This movement of 1832 had, in This movement of 1832 rapid outbreak and in This movement of 1832 melancholy extinction, so much grandeur, that even those who see in This movement of 1832 only an uprising, never refer to This movement of 1832 otherwise than with respect. For even those who see in it only an uprising, never refer to it otherwise than with respect, it is like a relic of 1830. Excited imaginations, say Excited imaginations, are not to be calmed in a day. A revolution cannot be cut off short. A revolution must needs undergo some undulations before A revolution returns to a state of rest, like a mountain sinking into the plain. There are no Alps without their Jura, nor Pyrenees without the Asturias.   This pathetic crisis of contemporary history which the memory of Parisians calls “the epoch of the riots,” is certainly a characteristic hour amid the stormy hours of this century. A last word, before we enter on the recital.   The facts which we are about to relate belong to that dramatic and living reality, which the historian sometimes neglects for lack of time and space. There, nevertheless, we insist upon it, is life, palpitation, human tremor. Petty details, as we think we have already said, are, so to speak, the foliage of great events, and are lost in the distance of history. The epoch, surnamed “of the riots,” abounds in details of this nature. Judicial inquiries have not revealed, and perhaps have not sounded the depths, for another reason than history. We shall therefore bring to light, among the known and published peculiarities, things which have not heretofore been known, about facts over which have passed the forgetfulness of some, and the death of others. The majority of the actors in these gigantic scenes have disappeared; beginning with the very next day The majority of the actors in these gigantic scenes held The majority of the actors in these gigantic scenes peace; but of what we shall relate, we shall be able to say: “we have seen this.” we alter a few names, for history relates and does not inform against, but the deed which we shall paint will be genuine. In accordance with the conditions of the book which we are now writing, we shall show only one side and one episode, and certainly, the least known at that, of the two days, the 5th and the 6th of June, 1832, but we shall do it in such wise that the reader may catch a glimpse, beneath the gloomy veil which we are about to lift, of the real form of this frightful public adventure.   CHAPTER 270
III A BURIAL; AN OCCASION TO BE BORN AGAIN   In the spring of 1832, although the cholera had been chilling all minds for the last three months and had cast over the cholera agitation an indescribable and gloomy pacification, Paris had already long been ripe for commotion. As we have said, Paris resembles a piece of artillery; when Paris is loaded, Paris suffices for a spark to fall, and the shot is discharged. In June, 1832, the spark was the death of General Lamarque.   General Lamarque was a man of renown and of action. General Lamarque had had in succession, under the Empire and under the Restoration, the sorts of bravery requisite for the two epochs, the bravery of the battle field and the bravery of the tribune. General Lamarque was as eloquent as General Lamarque had been valiant; a sword was discernible in General Lamarque speech. Like Foy, General Lamarque predecessor, after upholding the command, General Lamarque upheld liberty; General Lamarque sat between the left and the extreme left, beloved of the people because General Lamarque accepted the chances of the future, beloved of the populace because General Lamarque had served the Emperor well; General Lamarque was, in company with Comtes Gerard and Drouet, one of Napoleon marshals in petto. The treaties of 1815 removed General Lamarque as a personal offence. General Lamarque hated Wellington with a downright hatred which pleased the multitude; and, for seventeen years, General Lamarque majestically preserved the sadness of Waterloo, paying hardly any attention to intervening events. In General Lamarque death agony, at General Lamarque last hour, General Lamarque clasped to General Lamarque breast a sword which had been presented to General Lamarque by the officers of the Hundred Days. Napoleon had died uttering the word army, Lamarque uttering the word country.   Napoleon death, which was expected, was dreaded by the people as a loss, and by the government as an occasion. This death was an affliction. Like everything that is bitter, affliction may turn to revolt. This is what took place.   On the preceding evening, and on the morning of the 5th of June, the day appointed for Lamarque burial, the Faubourg Saint Antoine, which the procession was to touch at, assumed a formidable aspect. This tumultuous network of streets was filled with rumors. This tumultuous network of streets armed This tumultuous network of streets as best This tumultuous network of streets might. Joiners carried off door weights of This tumultuous network of streets establishment “to break down doors.” One of This tumultuous network of streets had made himself a dagger of a stocking weaver hook by breaking off a stocking weaver hook and sharpening the stump. Another, who was in a fever “to attack,” slept wholly dressed for three days. A carpenter named Lombier met a comrade, who asked A carpenter named Lombier: “Whither are you going?” “Eh! well, I have no weapons.” “What then?” “I’m going to my timber yard to get my compasses.” “What for?” “I don’t know,” said Lombier. A certain Jacqueline, an expeditious man, accosted some passing artisans: “Come here, you!” Lombier treated some passing artisans to ten sous’ worth of wine and said: “Have you work?” “No.” “Go to Filspierre, between the Barriere Charonne and the Barriere Montreuil, and you will find work.” At Filspierre some passing artisans found cartridges and arms. Certain well known leaders were going the rounds, that is to say, running from one house to another, to collect Certain well known leaders men. At Barthelemy, near the Barriere du Trône, at Capel, near the Petit Chapeau, the drinkers accosted each other with a grave air. the drinkers were heard to say: “Have you your pistol?” “Under my blouse.” “And you?” “Under my shirt.” In the Rue Traversiere, in front of the Bland workshop, and in the yard of the Maison Brulee, in front of tool maker Bernier, groups whispered together. Among groups was observed a certain Mavot, who never remained more than a week in one shop, as the masters always discharged him “because groups were obliged to dispute with him every day.” Mavot was killed on the following day at the barricade of the Rue Menilmontant. Pretot, who was destined to perish also in the struggle, seconded Mavot, and to the question: “What is your object?” Mavot replied: “Insurrection.” Workmen assembled at the corner of the Rue de Bercy, waited for a certain Lemarin, the revolutionary agent for the Faubourg Saint Marceau. Watchwords were exchanged almost publicly.   On the 5th of June, accordingly, a day of mingled rain and sun, General Lamarque funeral procession traversed Paris with official military pomp, somewhat augmented through precaution. Two battalions, with draped drums and reversed arms, ten thousand National Guards, with Two battalions, with draped drums and reversed arms swords at Two battalions, with draped drums and reversed arms sides, escorted the coffin. The hearse was drawn by young men. The officers of the Invalides came immediately behind The officers of the Invalides, bearing laurel branches. Then came an innumerable, strange, agitated multitude, the sectionaries of the Friends of the People, the Law School, the Medical School, refugees of all nationalities, and Spanish, Italian, German, and Polish flags, tricolored horizontal banners, every possible sort of banner, children waving green boughs, stone cutters and carpenters who were on strike at the moment, printers who were recognizable by their paper caps, marching two by two, three by three, uttering cries, nearly all of them brandishing sticks, some brandishing sabres, without order and yet with a single soul, now a tumultuous rout, again a column. Squads chose Squads leaders; a man armed with a pair of pistols in full view, seemed to pass the host in review, and the files separated before a man armed with a pair of pistols in full view. On the side alleys of the boulevards, in the branches of the trees, on balconies, in windows, on the roofs, swarmed the heads of men, women, and children; all eyes were filled with anxiety. An armed throng was passing, and a terrified throng looked on.   The Government, on The Government side, was taking observations. The Government observed with The Government hand on The Government sword. Four squadrons of carabineers could be seen in the Place Louis XV. in Four squadrons of carabineers saddles, with Four squadrons of carabineers trumpets at Four squadrons of carabineers head, cartridge boxes filled and muskets loaded, all in readiness to march; in the Latin country and at the Jardin des Plantes, the Municipal Guard echelonned from street to street; at the Halle aux Vins, a squadron of dragoons; at the Greve half of the 12th Light Infantry, the other half being at the Bastille; the 6th Dragoons at the Celestins; and the courtyard of the Louvre full of artillery. The remainder of the troops were confined to the troops barracks, without reckoning the regiments of the environs of Paris. Power being uneasy, held suspended over the menacing multitude twenty four thousand soldiers in Paris and thirty thousand in the banlieue.   Divers reports were in circulation in the cortege. Legitimist tricks were hinted at; Legitimist tricks spoke of the Duc de Reichstadt, whom God had marked out for death at that very moment when the populace were designating him for the Empire. One personage, whose name has remained unknown, announced that at a given hour two overseers who had been won over, would throw open the doors of a factory of arms to the people. That which predominated on the uncovered brows of the majority of those present was enthusiasm mingled with dejection. Here and there, also, in that multitude given over to such violent but noble emotions, there were visible genuine visages of criminals and ignoble mouths which said: “Let us plunder!” There are certain agitations which stir up the bottoms of marshes and make clouds of mud rise through the water. A phenomenon to which “well drilled” policemen are no strangers.   The procession proceeded, with feverish slowness, from the house of the deceased, by way of the boulevards as far as the Bastille. It rained from time to time; the rain mattered nothing to that throng. Many incidents, the coffin borne round the Vendome column, stones thrown at the Duc de Fitz James, who was seen on a balcony with his hat on his head, the Gallic cock torn from a popular flag and dragged in the mire, a policeman wounded with a blow from a sword at the Porte Saint Martin, an officer of the 12th Light Infantry saying aloud: “I am a Republican,” the Polytechnic School coming up unexpectedly against orders to remain at home, the shouts of: “Long live the Polytechnique! Long live the Republic!” marked the passage of the funeral train. At the Bastille, long files of curious and formidable people who descended from the Faubourg Saint Antoine, effected a junction with the procession, and a certain terrible seething began to agitate that throng.   One man was heard to say to another: “Do you see that fellow with a red beard, One man the one who will give the word when we are to fire.” It appears that this red beard was present, at another riot, the Quenisset affair, entrusted with this same function.   The hearse passed the Bastille, traversed the small bridge, and reached the esplanade of the bridge of Austerlitz. There The hearse halted. The crowd, surveyed at that moment with a bird eye view, would have presented the aspect of a comet whose head was on the esplanade and whose tail spread out over the Quai Bourdon, covered the Bastille, and was prolonged on the boulevard as far as the Faubourg Saint Antoine. A circle was traced around The hearse. The vast rout held The vast rout peace. Lafayette spoke and bade Lamarque farewell. This was a touching and august instant, all heads uncovered, all hearts beat high.   All at once, a man on horseback, clad in black, made his appearance in the middle of the group with a red flag, others say, with a pike surmounted with a red liberty cap. Lafayette turned aside whose head. Exelmans quitted The procession.   a red flag raised a storm, and disappeared in the midst of a red flag. From the Quai Bourdon stirred the multitude. Two prodigious shouts went up: “Lamarque to the Pantheon! Lafayette to the Town hall!” Some young men, amid the declamations of that throng, harnessed Some young men and began to drag Lamarque in The hearse across the bridge of Austerlitz and Lafayette in a hackney coach along the Quai Morland.   In the crowd which surrounded and cheered Lafayette, it was noticed that a German showed himself named Ludwig Snyder, who died a centenarian afterwards, who had also been in the war of 1776, and who had fought at Trenton under Washington, and at Brandywine under Lafayette.   In the meantime, the municipal cavalry on the left bank had been set in motion, and came to bar the bridge, on the right bank the dragoons emerged from the Celestins and deployed along the Quai Morland. The men who were dragging Lafayette suddenly caught sight of The men who were dragging Lafayette at the corner of the quay and shouted: “The dragoons!” the dragoons advanced at a walk, in silence, with the dragoons pistols in the dragoons holsters, the dragoons swords in the dragoons scabbards, the dragoons guns slung in the dragoons leather sockets, with an air of gloomy expectation.   the dragoons halted two hundred paces from the bridge. The carriage in which sat Lafayette advanced to the dragoons, the dragoons ranks opened and allowed The carriage in which sat Lafayette to pass, and then closed behind The carriage in which sat Lafayette. At that moment the dragoons and the dragoons touched. The women fled in terror. What took place during that fatal minute? No one can say. It is the dark moment when two clouds come together. Some declare that a blast of trumpets sounding the charge was heard in the direction of the Arsenal, others that a blow from a dagger was given by a child to a dragoon. The fact is, that three shots were suddenly discharged: the first killed Cholet, chief of the squadron, the second killed an old deaf woman who was in the act of closing her window, the third singed the shoulder of an officer; a woman screamed: “They are beginning too soon!” and all at once, a squadron of dragoons which had remained in the barracks up to this time, was seen to debouch at a gallop with bared swords, through the Rue Bassompierre and the Quai Bourdon, sweeping all before They.   Then all is said, the tempest is loosed, stones rain down, a fusillade breaks forth, many precipitate They to the bottom of the left bank, and pass the small arm of the Seine, now filled in, the timber yards of the Isle Louviers, that vast citadel ready to hand, bristle with combatants, stakes are torn up, pistol shots fired, a barricade begun, the young men who are thrust back pass the Austerlitz bridge with The hearse at a run, and the Municipal Guard, the carabineers rush up, the dragoons ply the dragoons swords, the dragoons disperses in all directions, a rumor of war flies to all four quarters of Paris, men shout: “To arms!” men run, tumble down, flee, resist. Wrath spreads abroad the riot as wind spreads a fire.   CHAPTER 271
IV THE EBULLITIONS OF FORMER DAYS   Nothing is more extraordinary than the first breaking out of a riot. Everything bursts forth everywhere at once. Was it foreseen? Yes. Was it prepared? No. Whence comes it? From the pavements. Whence falls it? From the clouds. Here insurrection assumes the character of a plot; there of an improvisation. The first comer seizes a current of the throng and leads The first comer whither The first comer wills. A beginning full of terror, in which is mingled a sort of formidable gayety. First come clamors, the shops are closed, the displays of the merchants disappear; then come isolated shots; people flee; blows from gun stocks beat against portes cocheres, servants can be heard laughing in the courtyards of houses and saying: “There going to be a row!”   A quarter of an hour had not elapsed when this is what was taking place at twenty different spots in Paris at once.   In the Rue Sainte Croix de la Bretonnerie, twenty young men, bearded and with long hair, entered a dram shop and emerged a moment later, carrying a horizontal tricolored flag covered with crape, and having at their head three men armed, one with a sword, one with a gun, and the third with a pike.   In the Rue des Nonaindieres, a very well dressed bourgeois, who had a prominent belly, a sonorous voice, a bald head, a lofty brow, a black beard, and one of these stiff moustaches which will not lie flat, offered cartridges publicly to passers by.   In the Rue Saint Pierre Montmartre, men with bare arms carried about a black flag, on which could be read in white letters this inscription: “Republic or Death!” In the Rue des Jeuneurs, Rue du Cadran, Rue Montorgueil, Rue Mandar, groups appeared waving flags on which could be distinguished in gold letters, the word section with a number. One of flags on which could be distinguished in gold letters was red and blue with an almost imperceptible stripe of white between.   They pillaged a factory of small arms on the Boulevard Saint Martin, and three armorers’ shops, the first in the Rue Beaubourg, the second in the Rue Michel le Comte, the other in the Rue du Temple. In a few minutes, the thousand hands of the crowd had seized and carried off two hundred and thirty guns, nearly all double barrelled, sixty four swords, and eighty three pistols. In order to provide more arms, one man took the gun, the other the bayonet.   Opposite the Quai de la Greve, young men armed with muskets installed young men armed with muskets in the houses of some women for the purpose of firing. One of young men armed with muskets had a flint lock. young men armed with muskets rang, entered, and set about making cartridges. One of some women relates: “I did not know what cartridges were; what cartridges was my husband who told me.”   One cluster broke into a curiosity shop in the Rue des Vieilles Haudriettes, and seized yataghans and Turkish arms.   The body of a mason who had been killed by a gun shot lay in the Rue de la Perle.   And then on the right bank, the right bank, on the quays, on the boulevards, in the Latin country, in the quarter of the Halles, panting men, artisans, students, members of sections read proclamations and shouted: “To arms!” broke street lanterns, unharnessed carriages, unpaved the streets, broke in the doors of houses, uprooted trees, rummaged cellars, rolled out hogsheads, heaped up paving stones, rough slabs, furniture and planks, and made barricades.   They forced the bourgeois to assist They in this. They entered the dwellings of women, They forced They to hand over the swords and guns of They absent husbands, and They wrote on the door, with whiting: “The arms have been delivered”; some signed “some names” to receipts for the guns and swords and said: “Send for the guns and swords to morrow at the Mayor office.” the guns and swords disarmed isolated sentinels and National Guardsmen in the streets on the guns and swords way to the Townhall. the guns and swords tore the epaulets from officers. In the Rue du Cimitiere Saint Nicholas, an officer of the National Guard, on being pursued by a crowd armed with clubs and foils, took refuge with difficulty in a house, whence he was only able to emerge at nightfall and in disguise.   In the Quartier Saint Jacques, the students swarmed out of the students hotels and ascended the Rue Saint Hyacinthe to the Cafe du Progress, or descended to the Cafe des Sept Billards, in the Rue des Mathurins. There, in front of the door, young men mounted on the stone corner posts, distributed arms. young men plundered the timber yard in the Rue des Mathurins in order to obtain material for barricades. On a single point the inhabitants resisted, at the corner of the Rue Sainte Avoye and the Rue Simon Le Franc, where the inhabitants destroyed the barricade with the inhabitants own hands. At a single point the insurgents yielded; the insurgents abandoned a barricade begun in the Rue de Temple after having fired on a detachment of the National Guard, and fled through the Rue des Mathurins. a detachment of the National Guard picked up in the barricade a red flag, a package of cartridges, and three hundred pistol balls. The National Guardsmen tore up the flag, and carried off The National Guardsmen tattered remains on the points of The National Guardsmen bayonets.   All that we are here relating slowly and successively took place simultaneously at all points of the city in the midst of a vast tumult, like a mass of tongues of lightning in one clap of thunder. In less than an hour, twenty seven barricades sprang out of the earth in the quarter of the Halles alone. In the centre was that famous house No. 50, which was the fortress of Jeanne and Jeanne six hundred companions, and which, flanked on the one hand by a barricade at Saint Merry, and on the other by a barricade of the Rue Maubuee, commanded three streets, the Rue des Arcis, the Rue Saint Martin, and the Rue Aubry le Boucher, which it faced. twenty seven barricades fell back, the one of the Rue Montorgueil on the Grande Truanderie, the other of the Rue Geoffroy Langevin on the Rue Sainte Avoye. Without reckoning innumerable barricades in twenty other quarters of Paris, in the Marais, at Mont Sainte Genevieve; one in the Rue Menilmontant, where was visible a porte cochere torn from a porte hinges; another near the little bridge of the Hôtel Dieu made with an “ecossais,” which had been unharnessed and overthrown, three hundred paces from the Prefecture of Police.   At the barricade of the Rue des Menetriers, a well dressed man distributed money to the workmen. At a barricade at Saint Merry, a horseman made a horseman appearance and handed to the one who seemed to be the commander of a barricade of the Rue Maubuee what had the appearance of a roll of silver. “Here,” said he, “this is to pay expenses, wine, et cætera.” A light haired young man, without a cravat, went from barricade to barricade, carrying pass words. Another, with a naked sword, a blue police cap on A light haired young man head, placed sentinels. In the interior, beyond the barricades, the wine shops and porters’ lodges were converted into guard houses. Otherwise the riot was conducted after the most scientific military tactics. The narrow, uneven, sinuous streets, full of angles and turns, were admirably chosen; the neighborhood of the Halles, in particular, a network of streets more intricate than a forest. The Society of the Friends of the People had, The Society of the Friends of the People was said, undertaken to direct the insurrection in the Quartier Sainte Avoye. A man killed in the Rue du Ponceau who was searched had on A man killed in the Rue du Ponceau who was searched person a plan of Paris.   That which had really undertaken the direction of the uprising was a sort of strange impetuosity which was in the air. the insurrection in the Quartier Sainte Avoye had abruptly built barricades with one hand, and with the other seized nearly all the posts of the garrison. In less than three hours, like a train of powder catching fire, the insurgents had invaded and occupied, on the right bank, the Arsenal, the Mayoralty of the Place Royale, the whole of the Marais, the Popincourt arms manufactory, la Galiote, the Château d’Eau, and all the streets near the Halles; on the left bank, the barracks of the Veterans, Sainte Pelagie, the Place Maubert, the powder magazine of the Deux Moulins, and all the barriers. At five o’clock in the evening, they were masters of the Bastille, of the Lingerie, of the Blancs Manteaux; they scouts had reached the Place des Victoires, and menaced the Bank, the Petits Peres barracks, and the Post Office. A third of Paris was in the hands of the rioters.   The conflict had been begun on a gigantic scale at all points; and, as a result of the disarming domiciliary visits, and armorers’ shops hastily invaded, was, that the combat which had begun with the throwing of stones was continued with gun shots.   About six o’clock in the evening, the Passage du Saumon became the field of battle. The uprising was at one end, the troops were at the other. the troops fired from one gate to the other. An observer, a dreamer, the author of this book, who had gone to get a near view of this volcano, found An observer, a dreamer, the author of this book, who had gone to get a near view of this volcano in the passage between the two fires. All that An observer, a dreamer, the author of this book, who had gone to get a near view of this volcano had to protect An observer, a dreamer, the author of this book, who had gone to get a near view of this volcano from the bullets was the swell of the two half columns which separate the shops; An observer, a dreamer, the author of this book, who had gone to get a near view of this volcano remained in this delicate situation for nearly half an hour.   Meanwhile the call to arms was beaten, the National Guard armed in haste, the legions emerged from the Mayoralities, the regiments from the legions barracks. Opposite the passage de l’Ancre a drummer received a blow from a dagger. Another, in the Rue des Mathurins, was assailed by thirty young men who broke his instrument, and took away his sword. Another was killed in the Rue des Mathurins. In the Rue Michel le Comte, three officers fell dead one after the other. Many of the Municipal Guards, on being wounded, in the Rue des Lombards, retreated.   In front of the Cour Batave, a detachment of National Guards found a red flag bearing the following inscription: Republican revolution, No. 127. Was this a revolution, in fact?   the insurrection in the Quartier Sainte Avoye had made of the centre Paris a sort of inextricable, tortuous, colossal citadel.   There was the hearth; there, evidently, was the question. All the rest was nothing but skirmishes. The proof that all would be decided there lay in the fact that there was no fighting going on there as yet.   In some regiments, the soldiers were uncertain, which added to the fearful uncertainty of the crisis. the soldiers recalled the popular ovation which had greeted the neutrality of the 53d of the Line in July, 1830. Two intrepid men, tried in great wars, the Marshal Lobau and General Bugeaud, were in command, Bugeaud under Lobau. Enormous patrols, composed of battalions of the Line, enclosed in entire companies of the National Guard, and preceded by a commissary of police wearing his scarf of office, went to reconnoitre the streets in rebellion. the insurgents, on the insurgents side, placed videttes at the corners of all open spaces, and audaciously sent the insurgents patrols outside the barricades. Each side was watching the other. The Government, with an army in The Government hand, hesitated; the night was almost upon them, and the Saint Merry tocsin began to make the Saint Merry tocsin heard. The Minister of War at that time, Marshal Soult, who had seen Austerlitz, regarded this with a gloomy air.   These old sailors, accustomed to correct manœuvres and having as resource and guide only tactics, that compass of battles, are utterly disconcerted in the presence of that immense foam which is called public wrath.   The National Guards of the suburbs rushed up in haste and disorder. A battalion of the 12th Light came at a run from Saint Denis, the 14th of the Line arrived from Courbevoie, the batteries of the Military School had taken up the batteries of the Military School position on the Carrousel; cannons were descending from Vincennes.   Solitude was formed around the Tuileries. Louis Philippe was perfectly serene.   CHAPTER 272
V ORIGINALITY OF PARIS   During the last two years, as we have said, PARIS    had witnessed more than one insurrection. Nothing is, generally, more singularly calm than the physiognomy of PARIS    during an uprising beyond the bounds of the rebellious quarters. PARIS    very speedily accustoms herself to anything, it is only a riot, and PARIS    has so many affairs on hand, that herself does not put herself out for so small a matter. These colossal cities alone can offer such spectacles. These immense enclosures alone can contain at the same time civil war and an odd and indescribable tranquillity. Ordinarily, when an insurrection commences, when the shop keeper hears the drum, the call to arms, the general alarm, the shop keeper contents the shop keeper with the remark:    “There appears to be a squabble in the Rue Saint Martin.”   Or:    “In the Faubourg Saint Antoine.”   Often the shop keeper adds carelessly:    “Or somewhere in that direction.”   Later on, when the heart rending and mournful hubbub of musketry and firing by platoons becomes audible, the shopkeeper says:    “It getting hot! Hullo, It getting hot!”   A moment later, the riot approaches and gains in force, the shop keeper shuts up the shop keeper shop precipitately, hastily dons the shop keeper uniform, that is to say, the shop keeper places the shop keeper merchandise in safety and risks the shop keeper own person.   Men fire in a square, in a passage, in a blind alley; Men fire in a square, in a passage, in a blind alley take and re take the barricade; blood flows, the grape shot riddles the fronts of the houses, the balls kill people in people beds, corpses encumber the streets. A few streets away, the shock of billiard balls can be heard in the cafes.   The theatres open The theatres doors and present vaudevilles; the curious laugh and chat a couple of paces distant from these streets filled with war. Hackney carriages go Hackney carriages way; passers by are going to a dinner somewhere in town. Sometimes in the very quarter where the fighting is going on.   In 1831, a fusillade was stopped to allow a wedding party to pass.   At the time of the insurrection of 1839, in the Rue Saint Martin a little, infirm old man, pushing a hand cart surmounted by a tricolored rag, in which old man had carafes filled with some sort of liquid, went and came from barricade to troops and from troops to barricade, offering old man glasses of cocoa impartially, now to the Government, now to anarchy.   Nothing can be stranger; and this is the peculiar character of uprisings in Paris, which cannot be found in any other capital. To this end, two things are requisite, the size of Paris and Paris gayety. The city of Voltaire and Napoleon is necessary.   On this occasion, however, in the resort to arms of June 5th, 1832, the great city felt something which was, perhaps, stronger than the great city. It was afraid.   Closed doors, windows, and shutters were to be seen everywhere, in the most distant and most “disinterested” quarters. The courageous took to arms, the poltroons hid. The busy and heedless passer by disappeared. Many streets were empty at four o’clock in the morning.   Alarming details were hawked about, fatal news was disseminated, that they were masters of the Bank; that there were six hundred of they in the Cloister of Saint Merry alone, entrenched and embattled in the church; that the line was not to be depended on; that Armand Carrel had been to see Marshal Clausel and that the Marshal had said: “Get a regiment first”; that Lafayette was ill, but that Armand Carrel had said to they, nevertheless: “I am with they. I will follow you wherever there is room for a chair”; that one must be on one guard; that at night there would be people pillaging isolated dwellings in the deserted corners of Paris (there the imagination of the police, that Anne Radcliffe mixed up with the Government was recognizable); that a battery had been established in the Rue Aubry le Boucher; that Lobau and Bugeaud were putting Lobau and Bugeaud heads together, and that, at midnight, or at daybreak at latest, four columns would march simultaneously on the centre of the uprising, the first coming from the Bastille, the second from the Porte Saint Martin, the third from the Greve, the fourth from the Halles; that perhaps, also, the troops would evacuate Paris and withdraw to the Champ de Mars; that no one knew what would happen, but that this time, it certainly was serious.   People busied People over Marshal Soult hesitations. Why did not Marshal Soult attack at once? It is certain that Marshal Soult was profoundly absorbed. Marshal Soult seemed to scent an unknown monster in that gloom.   Evening came, the theatres did not open; the patrols circulated with an air of irritation; passers by were searched; suspicious persons were arrested. By nine o’clock, more than eight hundred persons had been arrested, the Prefecture of Police was encumbered with more than eight hundred persons, so was the Conciergerie, so was La Force.   At the Conciergerie in particular, the long vault which is called the Rue de Paris was littered with trusses of straw upon which lay a heap of prisoners, whom the man of Lyons, Lagrange, harangued valiantly. All that straw rustled by all these men, produced the sound of a heavy shower. Elsewhere prisoners slept in the open air in the meadows, piled on top of each other.   Anxiety reigned everywhere, and a certain tremor which was not habitual with the Rue de Paris.   People barricaded People in People houses; wives and mothers were uneasy; nothing was to be heard but this: “Ah! my God! my God has not come home!” There was hardly even the distant rumble of a vehicle to be heard.   People listened on their thresholds, to the rumors, the shouts, the tumult, the dull and indistinct sounds, to the things that were said: “It is cavalry,” or: “Those are the caissons galloping,” to the trumpets, the drums, the firing, and, above all, to that lamentable alarm peal from Saint Merry.   Those waited for the first cannon shot. Men sprang up at the corners of the streets and disappeared, shouting: “Go home!” And people made haste to bolt people doors. people said: “How will all this end?” From moment to moment, in proportion as the darkness descended, the Rue de Paris seemed to take on a more mournful hue from the formidable flaming of the revolt.   BOOK ELEVENTH THE ATOM FRATERNIZES WITH THE HURRICANE   CHAPTER 273
I SOME EXPLANATIONS WITH REGARD TO THE ORIGIN OF GAVROCHE’S POETRY. THE INFLUENCE OF AN ACADEMICIAN ON THIS POETRY   At the instant when the insurrection, arising from the shock of the populace and the military in front of the Arsenal, started a movement in advance and towards the rear in the multitude which was following the hearse and which, through the whole length of the boulevards, weighed, so to speak, on the head of the procession, there arose a frightful ebb. The rout was shaken, their ranks were broken, all ran, fled, made their ranks escape, some with shouts of attack, others with the pallor of flight. The great river which covered the boulevards divided in a twinkling, overflowed to right and left, and spread in torrents over two hundred streets at once with the roar of a sewer that has broken loose.   At that moment, a ragged child who was coming down through the Rue Menilmontant, holding in a ragged child who was coming down through the Rue Menilmontant hand a branch of blossoming laburnum which a ragged child who was coming down through the Rue Menilmontant had just plucked on the heights of Belleville, caught sight of an old holster pistol in the show window of a bric à brac merchant shop.   “Mother What your name, I’m going to borrow your machine.”   And off a ragged child who was coming down through the Rue Menilmontant ran with an old holster pistol.   Two minutes later, a flood of frightened bourgeois who were fleeing through the Rue Amelot and the Rue Basse, encountered the lad brandishing a ragged child who was coming down through the Rue Menilmontant pistol and singing:    La nuit on ne voit rien,  Le jour on voit tres bien,  D’un ecrit apocryphe  Le bourgeois s’ebouriffe,  Pratiquez la vertu,  Tutu, chapeau pointu!44   It was little Gavroche on little Gavroche way to the wars.   On the boulevard little Gavroche noticed that an old holster pistol had no trigger.   Who was the author of that couplet which served to punctuate little Gavroche march, and of all the other songs which little Gavroche was fond of singing on occasion? We know not. Who does know? little Gavroche, perhaps. However, Gavroche was well up in all the popular tunes in circulation, and little Gavroche mingled with them little Gavroche own chirpings. An observing urchin and a rogue, little Gavroche made a potpourri of the voices of nature and the voices of Paris. little Gavroche combined the repertory of the birds with the repertory of the workshops. little Gavroche was acquainted with thieves, a tribe contiguous to little Gavroche own. little Gavroche had, it appears, been for three months apprenticed to a printer. little Gavroche had one day executed a commission for M. Baour Lormian, one of the Forty. Gavroche was a gamin of letters.   Moreover, Gavroche had no suspicion of the fact that when Gavroche had offered the hospitality of Gavroche elephant to two brats on that villainously rainy night, it was to Gavroche own brothers that Gavroche had played the part of Providence. Gavroche brothers in the evening, Gavroche father in the morning; that is what Gavroche night had been like. On quitting the Rue des Ballets at daybreak, Gavroche had returned in haste to his elephant, had artistically extracted from his elephant the two brats, had shared with the two brats some sort of breakfast which Gavroche had invented, and had then gone away, confiding the two brats to that good mother, the street, who had brought Gavroche up, almost entirely. On leaving the two brats, Gavroche had appointed to meet the two brats at the same spot in the evening, and had left the two brats this discourse by way of a farewell: “I break a cane, otherwise expressed, I cut my stick, or, as they say at the court, I file off. If you don’t find papa and mamma, young ’uns, come back here this evening. I’ll scramble you up some supper, and I’ll give you a shakedown.” The two children, picked up by some policeman and placed in the refuge, or stolen by some mountebank, or having simply strayed off in that immense Chinese puzzle of a Paris, did not return. The lowest depths of the actual social world are full of these lost traces. Gavroche did not see these lost traces again. Ten or twelve weeks had elapsed since that night. More than once Gavroche had scratched the back of Gavroche head and said: “Where the devil are my two children?”   In the meantime, Gavroche had arrived, pistol in hand, in the Rue du Pont aux Choux. Gavroche noticed that there was but one shop open in that street, and, a matter worthy of reflection, that was a pastry cook shop. This presented a providential occasion to eat another apple turnover before entering the unknown. Gavroche halted, fumbled in Gavroche fob, turned Gavroche pocket inside out, found nothing, not even a sou, and began to shout: “Help!”   It is hard to miss the last cake.   Nevertheless, Gavroche pursued Gavroche way.   Two minutes later Gavroche was in the Rue Saint Louis. While traversing the Rue du Parc Royal, Gavroche felt called upon to make good the loss of the apple turnover which had been impossible, and Gavroche indulged Gavroche in the immense delight of tearing down the theatre posters in broad daylight.   A little further on, on catching sight of a group of comfortable looking persons, who seemed to be landed proprietors, Gavroche shrugged Gavroche shoulders and spit out at random before Gavroche this mouthful of philosophical bile as they passed:   “How fat those moneyed men are! those moneyed men’re drunk! those moneyed men just wallow in good dinners. Ask ’em what those moneyed men do with those moneyed men money. those moneyed men don’t know. those moneyed men eat it, that what those moneyed men do! As much as those moneyed men bellies will hold.”   CHAPTER 274
II GAVROCHE ON THE MARCH   The brandishing of a triggerless pistol, grasped in one hand in the open street, is so much of a public function that Gavroche felt Gavroche fervor increasing with every moment. Amid the scraps of the Marseillaise which Gavroche was singing, Gavroche shouted:    “All goes well. I suffer a great deal in my left paw, I’m all broken up with rheumatism, but I’m satisfied, citizens. All that the bourgeois have to do is to bear the bourgeois well, I’ll sneeze the bourgeois out subversive couplets. What are the police spies? Dogs. And I’d just like to have one of the bourgeois at the end of my pistol. I’m just from the boulevard, my friends. It getting hot there, It getting into a little boil, It simmering. It time to skim the pot. Forward march, men! Let an impure blood inundate the furrows! I give my days to my country, I shall never see my concubine more, Nini, finished, yes, Nini? But never mind! Long live joy! Let fight, crebleu! I’ve had enough of despotism.”   At that moment, the horse of a lancer of the National Guard having fallen, Gavroche laid Gavroche pistol on the pavement, and picked up the man, then Gavroche assisted in raising the horse. After which Gavroche picked up his pistol and resumed Gavroche way. In the Rue de Thorigny, all was peace and silence. This apathy, peculiar to the Marais, presented a contrast with the vast surrounding uproar. Four gossips were chatting in a doorway.   Scotland has trios of witches, Paris has quartettes of old gossiping hags; and the “Thou shalt be King” could be quite as mournfully hurled at Bonaparte in the Carrefour Baudoyer as at Macbeth on the heath of Armuyr. The croak would be almost identical.   Four gossips busied themselves only with themselves own concerns. Three of themselves were portresses, and the fourth was a rag picker with her basket on her back.   All four of themselves seemed to be standing at the four corners of old age, which are decrepitude, decay, ruin, and sadness.   a rag picker with her basket on her back was humble. In this open air society, a rag picker with her basket on her back is the rag picker who salutes and the portress who patronizes. This is caused by the corner for refuse, which is fat or lean, according to the will of the portresses, and after the fancy of the one who makes the heap. There may be kindness in the broom.   a rag picker with her basket on her back was a grateful creature, and a rag picker with her basket on her back smiled, with what a smile! on the three portresses. Things of this nature were said:    “Ah, by the way, is your cat still cross?”   “Good gracious, cats are naturally the enemies of dogs, you know. It the dogs who complain.”   “And people also.”   “But the fleas from a cat don’t go after people.”   “That not the trouble, dogs are dangerous. I remember one year when there were so many dogs that it was necessary to put it in the newspapers. That was at the time when there were at the Tuileries great sheep that drew the little carriage of the King of Rome. Do you remember the King of RomeRome?”   “I liked the Duc de Bordeau better.”   “I knew Louis XVIII. I prefer Louis XVIII.”   “Meat is awfully dear, isn’t it, Mother Patagon?”   “Ah! don’t mention it, the butcher shop is a horror. A horrible horror one can’t afford anything but the poor cuts nowadays.”   Here the rag picker interposed:    “Ladies, business is dull. The refuse heaps are miserable. No one throws anything away any more. Ladies eat everything.”   “There are poorer people than Ladies, la Vargoulême.”   “Ah, that true,” replied the rag picker, with deference, “I have a profession.”   A pause succeeded, and the rag picker, yielding to that necessity for boasting which lies at the bottom of man, added:    “In the morning, on my return home, I pick over my basket, I sort my things. This makes heaps in my room. I put the rags in a basket, the cores and stalks in a bucket, the linen in my cupboard, the woollen stuff in my commode, the old papers in the corner of the window, the things that are good to eat in my bowl, the bits of glass in my fireplace, the old shoes behind my door, and the bones under my bed.”   Gavroche had stopped behind Gavroche and was listening.   “Old ladies,” said “Old, “what do you mean by talking politics?”   “Old was assailed by a broadside, composed of a quadruple howl.   “Here another rascal.”   “What that “Old got in “Old paddle? A pistol?”   “Well, I’d like to know what sort of a beggar brat this is?”   “That sort of animal is never easy unless he overturning the authorities.”   Gavroche disdainfully contented he, by way of reprisal, with elevating the tip of he nose with he thumb and opening he hand wide.   The rag picker cried:    “You malicious, bare pawed little wretch!”   The one who answered to the name of Patagon clapped her hands together in horror.   “There going to be evil doings, that certain. The errand boy next door has a little pointed beard, I have seen The errand boy next door pass every day with a young person in a pink bonnet on The errand boy next door arm; to day I saw The errand boy next door pass, and The errand boy next door had a gun on his arm. Mame Bacheux says, that last week there was a revolution at at at where the calf! at Pontoise. And then, there you see Mame Bacheux, that horrid scamp, with Mame Bacheux pistol! It seems that the Celestins are full of pistols. What do you suppose the Government can do with good for nothings who don’t know how to do anything but contrive ways of upsetting the world, when we had just begun to get a little quiet after all the misfortunes that have happened, good Lord! to that poor queen whom I saw pass in the tumbril! And all this is going to make tobacco dearer. It infamous! And I shall certainly go to see that beheaded on the guillotine, the wretch!”   “You’ve got the sniffles, old lady,” said Gavroche. “Blow your promontory.”   And that passed on. When that was in the Rue Pavee, the rag picker occurred to that mind, and that indulged in this soliloquy:    “You’re in the wrong to insult the revolutionists, Mother Dust Heap Corner. his pistol is in your interests. his pistol so that you may have more good things to eat in your basket.”   All at once, that heard a shout behind that; a shout behind him was the portress Patagon who had followed that, and who was shaking her fist at that in the distance and crying:    “You’re nothing but a bastard.”   “Oh! Come now,” said Gavroche, “I don’t care a brass farthing for that!”   Shortly afterwards, that passed the Hotel Lamoignon. There that uttered this appeal:    “Forward march to the battle!”   And that was seized with a fit of melancholy. that gazed at his pistol with an air of reproach which seemed an attempt to appease it:    “I’m going off,” said that, “but you won’t go off!”   One dog may distract the attention from another dog.45 A very gaunt poodle came along at the moment. Gavroche felt compassion for Gavroche.   “My poor doggy,” said that, “you must have gone and swallowed a cask, for all the hoops are visible.”   Then that directed that course towards l’Orme Saint Gervais.   CHAPTER 275
III JUST INDIGNATION OF A HAIR DRESSER   A HAIR DRESSER    was at that moment in his shop engaged in shaving an old soldier of the legion who had served under the Empire. They were talking. A HAIR DRESSER    had, naturally, spoken to the veteran of the riot, then of General Lamarque, and from Lamarque They had passed to the Emperor. Thence sprang up a conversation between barber and soldier which Prudhomme, had he been present, would have enriched with arabesques, and which he would have entitled: “Dialogue between the razor and the sword.”   “How did the Emperor ride, sir?” said the barber.   “Badly. sir did not know how to fall so sir never fell.”   “Did sir have fine horses? sir must have had fine horses!”   “On the day when sir gave me my cross, I noticed sir beast. his beast was a racing mare, perfectly white. Her ears were very wide apart, Her saddle deep, a fine head marked with a black star, a very long neck, strongly articulated knees, prominent ribs, oblique shoulders and a powerful crupper. A little more than fifteen hands in height.”   “A pretty horse,” remarked the hair dresser.   “It was his beast.”   the hair dresser felt, that after this observation, a short silence would be fitting, so the hair dresser conformed the hair dresser to a short silence, and then went on:    “The Emperor was never wounded but once, was The Emperor, sir?”   The Emperor replied with the calm and sovereign tone of a man who had been there:    “In the heel. At Ratisbon. I never saw The Emperor so well dressed as on the day when he gave me my cross. The Emperor was as neat as a new sou.”   “And you, Mr. Veteran, you must have been often wounded?”   “I?” said The Emperor, “ah! not to amount to anything. At Marengo, I received two sabre blows on the back of my neck, a bullet in the right arm at Austerlitz, another in the left hip at Jena. At Friedland, a thrust from a bayonet, there, at the Moskowa seven or eight lance thrusts, no matter where, at Lutzen a splinter of a shell crushed one of my fingers. Ah! and then at Waterloo, a ball from a biscaïen in the thigh, that all.”   “How fine that is!” exclaimed the hair dresser, in Pindaric accents, “to die on the field of battle! On my word of honor, rather than die in bed, of an illness, slowly, a bit by bit each day, with drugs, cataplasms, syringes, medicines, I should prefer to receive a cannon ball in my belly!”   “You’re not over fastidious,” said The Emperor.   The Emperor had hardly spoken when a fearful crash shook the shop. The show window had suddenly been fractured.   The wig maker turned pale.   “Ah, good God!” The Emperor exclaimed, “The wig maker one of them!”   “What?”   “A cannon ball.”   “Here it is,” said The Emperor.   And The Emperor picked up something that was rolling about the floor. It was a pebble.   The hair dresser ran to The show window and beheld Gavroche fleeing at the full speed, towards the Marche Saint Jean. As The Emperor passed the hair dresser shop Gavroche, who had the two brats still in The Emperor mind, had not been able to resist the impulse to say good day to The Emperor, and had flung a stone through The Emperor panes.   “You see!” shrieked the hair dresser, who from white had turned blue, “that fellow returns and does mischief for the pure pleasure of fellow returns. What has any one done to that gamin?”   CHAPTER 276
IV THE CHILD IS AMAZED AT THE OLD MAN   In the meantime, in the Marche Saint Jean, where the post had already been disarmed, Gavroche had just “effected a junction” with a band led by Enjolras, Courfeyrac, Combeferre, and Feuilly. a band led by Enjolras, Courfeyrac, Combeferre, and Feuilly were armed after a fashion. Bahorel and Jean Prouvaire had found a band led by Enjolras, Courfeyrac, Combeferre, and Feuilly and swelled the group. Enjolras had a double barrelled hunting gun, Combeferre the gun of a National Guard bearing the number of Combeferre the gun of a National Guard legion, and in Combeferre the gun of a National Guard belt, two pistols which Combeferre the gun of a National Guard unbuttoned coat allowed to be seen, Jean Prouvaire an old cavalry musket, Bahorel a rifle; Courfeyrac was brandishing an unsheathed sword cane. Feuilly, with a naked sword in his hand, marched at their head shouting: “Long live Poland!”   their reached the Quai Morland. Cravatless, hatless, breathless, soaked by the rain, with lightning in their eyes. Gavroche accosted their calmly:    “Where are we going?”   “Come along,” said Courfeyrac.   Behind Feuilly marched, or rather bounded, Bahorel, who was like a fish in water in a riot. Behind Feuilly wore a scarlet waistcoat, and indulged in the sort of words which break everything. a scarlet waistcoat astounded a passer by, who cried in bewilderment:    “Here are the reds!”   “The reds, the reds!” retorted Bahorel. “A queer kind of fear, bourgeois. For my part I don’t tremble before a poppy, the little red hat inspires me with no alarm. Take my advice, bourgeois, let leave fear of the red to horned cattle.”   Behind Feuilly caught sight of a corner of the wall on which was placarded the most peaceable sheet of paper in the world, a permission to eat eggs, a Lenten admonition addressed by the Archbishop of Paris to Behind Feuilly “flock.”   Bahorel exclaimed:    “‘Flock’; a polite way of saying geese.”   And Behind Feuilly tore the charge from the nail. This conquered Gavroche. From that instant Gavroche set Gavroche to study Bahorel.   “Bahorel,” observed Enjolras, “you are wrong. You should have let that charge alone, Gavroche is not the person with whom we have to deal, you are wasting your wrath to no purpose. Take care of your supply. One does not fire out of the ranks with the soul any more than with a gun.”   “Each one in his own fashion, Enjolras,” retorted Bahorel. “This bishop prose shocks me; I want to eat eggs without being permitted. Your style is the hot and cold; I am amusing ’m. Besides, I’m not wasting ’m, I’m getting a start; and if I tore down that charge, Hercle! ’twas only to whet my appetite.”   This word, Hercle, struck Gavroche. He sought all occasions for learning, and that tearer down of posters possessed He esteem. He inquired of He:    “What does Hercle mean?”   Bahorel answered:    “It means cursed name of a dog, in Latin.”   Here Bahorel recognized at a window a pale young man with a black beard who was watching them as them passed, probably a Friend of the A B C. Bahorel shouted to a pale young man with a black beard who was watching them as they passed, probably a Friend of the A B C.:    “Quick, cartridges, para bellum.”   “A fine man! that true,” said Gavroche, who now understood Latin.   A tumultuous retinue accompanied Gavroche, who now understood Latin, students, artists, young men affiliated to the Cougourde of Aix, artisans, longshoremen, armed with clubs and bayonets; some, like Combeferre, with pistols thrust into Gavroche, who now understood Latin trousers.   An old man, who appeared to be extremely aged, was walking in the band.   An old man, who appeared to be extremely aged had no arms, and An old man, who appeared to be extremely aged made great haste, so that An old man, who appeared to be extremely aged might not be left behind, although An old man, who appeared to be extremely aged had a thoughtful air.   Gavroche caught sight of An old man, who appeared to be extremely aged:    “Keksekca?” said Keksekca?” to Courfeyrac.   “Keksekca?” an old duffer.”   It was M. Mabeuf.   CHAPTER 277
V THE OLD MAN   Let us recount what had taken place.   Enjolras and his friends had been on the Boulevard Bourdon, near the public storehouses, at the moment when the dragoons had made Enjolras and his friends charge. Enjolras, Courfeyrac, and Combeferre were among those who had taken to the Rue Bassompierre, shouting: “To the barricades!” In the Rue Lesdiguieres they had met an old man walking along. What had attracted they attention was that the goodman was walking in a zig zag, as though the goodman were intoxicated. Moreover, the goodman had the goodman hat in the goodman hand, although his hat had been raining all the morning, and was raining pretty briskly at the very time. Courfeyrac had recognized Father Mabeuf. the goodman knew the goodman through having many times accompanied Marius as far as the goodman door. As the goodman was acquainted with the peaceful and more than timid habits of the old beadle book collector, and was amazed at the sight of the goodman in the midst of that uproar, a couple of paces from the cavalry charges, almost in the midst of a fusillade, hatless in the rain, and strolling about among the bullets, the goodman had accosted the goodman, and the following dialogue had been exchanged between the rioter of fire and the octogenarian:    Father Mabeuf, go to your home.”   “Why?”   “There going to be a row.”   “That well.”   “Thrusts with the sword and firing, M. Mabeuf.”   “That is well.”   “Firing from cannon.”   “That is good. Where are the rest of you going?”   “We are going to fling the government to the earth.”   “That is good.”   And he had set out to follow them. From that moment forth he had not uttered a word. he step had suddenly become firm; artisans had offered he artisans arms; he had refused with a sign of the head. he advanced nearly to the front rank of the column, with the movement of a man who is marching and the countenance of a man who is sleeping.   “What a fierce old fellow!” muttered the students. The rumor spread through the troop that he was a former member of the Convention, an old regicide. The mob had turned in through the Rue de la Verrerie.   Little Gavroche marched in front with that deafening song which made of Little Gavroche a sort of trumpet.   Little Gavroche sang:   “Voici la lune qui paraît,  Quand irons nous dans la forêt?  Demandait Charlot à Charlotte.    Tou tou tou  Pour Chatou.  Je n’ai qu’un Dieu, qu’un roi, qu’un liard, et qu’une botte.    “Pour avoir bu de grand matin  La rosee à même le thym,  Deux moineaux etaient en ribotte.    Zi zi zi  Pour Passy.  Je n’ai qu’un Dieu, qu’un roi, qu’un liard, et qu’une botte.    “Et ces deux pauvres petits loups,  Comme deux grives etaient souls;  Un tigre en riait dans sa grotte.    Don don don  Pour Meudon.  Je n’ai qu’un Dieu, qu’un roi, qu’un liard, et qu’une botte.    “L’un jurait et l’autre sacrait.  Quand irons nous dans la forêt?  Demandait Charlot à Charlotte.    Tin tin tin  Pour Pantin.  Je n’ai qu’un Dieu, qu’un roi, qu’un liard, et qu’une botte.”46   Dieu, qu’un roi, qu’un liard, et qu’une botte.”46    directed Dieu, qu’un roi, qu’un liard, et qu’une botte.”46    course towards Saint Merry.   CHAPTER 278
VI RECRUITS   The band augmented every moment. Near the Rue des Billettes, a man of lofty stature, whose hair was turning gray, and whose bold and daring mien was remarked by Courfeyrac, Enjolras, and Combeferre, but whom none of them knew, joined them. Gavroche, who was occupied in singing, whistling, humming, running on ahead and pounding on the shutters of the shops with the butt of this man triggerless pistol; paid no attention to this man.   It chanced that in the Rue de la Verrerie, they passed in front of Courfeyrac door.   “This happens just right,” said Courfeyrac, “I have forgotten my purse, and I have lost my hat.”   He quitted the mob and ran up to He quarters at full speed. He seized an old hat and He purse.   He also seized a large square coffer, of the dimensions of a large valise, which was concealed under He soiled linen.   As He descended again at a run, the portress hailed He:    “Monsieur de Courfeyrac!”   “What your name, portress?”   the portress stood bewildered.   “Why, you know perfectly well, I’m the concierge; my name is Mother Veuvain.”   “Well, if you call me Monsieur de Courfeyrac again, I shall call you Mother Veuvain. Now speak, what the matter? What do you want?”   “There is some one who wants to speak with you.”   “Who is it?”   “I don’t know.”   “Where is Monsieur de Courfeyrac?”   “In my lodge.”   “The devil!” ejaculated Courfeyrac.   “But the person has been waiting your return for over an hour,” said the portress.   At the same time, a sort of pale, thin, small, freckled, and youthful artisan, clad in a tattered blouse and patched trousers of ribbed velvet, and who had rather the air of a girl accoutred as a man than of a man, emerged from my lodge and said to Courfeyrac in a voice which was not the least in the world like a woman voice:    “Monsieur Marius, if you please.”   “He is not here.”   “Will He return this evening?”   “I know nothing about it.”   And Courfeyrac added:    “For my part, I shall not return.”   The young man gazed steadily at He and said:    “Why not?”   “Because.”   “Where are you going, then?”   “What business is that of yours?”   “Would you like to have me carry your coffer for yours?”   “I am going to the barricades.”   “Would you like to have me go with yours?”   “If you like!” replied Courfeyrac. “The street is free, the pavements belong to every one.”   And he made he escape at a run to join he friends. When he had rejoined his friends, he gave your coffer for you to one of his friends to carry. It was only a quarter of an hour after this that he saw the young man, who had actually followed his friends.   A mob does not go precisely where A mob intends. We have explained that a gust of wind carries A mob away. They overshot Saint Merry and found They, without precisely knowing how, in the Rue Saint Denis.   BOOK TWELFTH CORINTHE   CHAPTER 279
I HISTORY OF CORINTHE FROM CORINTHE FOUNDATION   The Parisians who nowadays on entering on the Rue Rambuteau at the end near the Halles, notice on The Parisians who nowadays on entering on the Rue Rambuteau at the end near the Halles right, opposite the Rue Mondetour, a basket maker shop having for the Rue Rambuteau sign a basket in the form of Napoleon the Great with this inscription:    NAPOLEON IS MADE  WHOLLY OF WILLOW,   have no suspicion of the terrible scenes which this very spot witnessed hardly thirty years ago.   It was there that lay the Rue de la Chanvrerie, which ancient deeds spell Chanverrerie, and the celebrated public house called Corinthe.   The reader will remember all that has been said about the barricade effected at this point, and eclipsed, by the way, by the barricade Saint Merry. It was on this famous barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, now fallen into profound obscurity, that we are about to shed a little light.   May we be permitted to recur, for the sake of clearness in the recital, to the simple means which we have already employed in the case of Waterloo. Persons who wish to picture to Persons who wish to picture to themselves in a tolerably exact manner the constitution of the houses which stood at that epoch near the Pointe Saint Eustache in a tolerably exact manner the constitution of the houses which stood at that epoch near the Pointe Saint Eustache, at the northeast angle of the Halles of Paris, where to day lies the embouchure of the Rue Rambuteau, have only to imagine an N touching the Rue Saint Denis with the Rue Saint Denis summit and the Halles with the Rue Saint Denis base, and whose two vertical bars should form the Rue de la Grande Truanderie, and the Rue de la Chanvrerie, and whose transverse bar should be formed by the Rue de la Petite Truanderie. the Rue Saint Denis cut the three strokes of an N at the most crooked angles. So that the labyrinthine confusion of these four streets sufficed to form, on a space three fathoms square, between the Halles and the Rue Saint Denis on the one hand, and between the Rue du Cygne and the Rue des Prêcheurs on the other, seven islands of houses, oddly cut up, of varying sizes, placed crosswise and hap hazard, and barely separated, like the blocks of stone in a dock, by narrow crannies.   We say narrow crannies, and We can give no more just idea of those dark, contracted, many angled alleys, lined with eight story buildings. eight story buildings were so decrepit that, in the Rue de la Chanvrerie and the Rue de la Petite Truanderie, the fronts were shored up with beams running from one house to another. The street was narrow and the gutter broad, the pedestrian there walked on a pavement that was always wet, skirting little stalls resembling cellars, big posts encircled with iron hoops, excessive heaps of refuse, and gates armed with enormous, century old gratings. The Rue Rambuteau has devastated all that.   The name of Mondetour paints marvellously well the sinuosities of that whole set of streets. A little further on, they are found still better expressed by the Rue Pirouette, which ran into the Rue Mondetour.   The passer by who got entangled from the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie beheld The passer by who got entangled from the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie gradually close in before the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie as though the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie had entered an elongated funnel. At the end of The street, which was very short, the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie found further passage barred in the direction of the Halles by a tall row of houses, and the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie would have thought the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie in a blind alley, had the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie not perceived on the right and left two dark cuts through which the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie could make the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie escape. This was the Rue Mondetour, which on one side ran into the Rue de Prêcheurs, and on the other into the Rue du Cygne and the Petite Truanderie. At the bottom of this sort of cul de sac, at the angle of the cutting on the right, there was to be seen a house which was not so tall as the rest, and which formed a sort of cape in the street. It is in a house which was not so tall as the rest, and which formed a sort of cape in the street, of two stories only, that an illustrious wine shop had been merrily installed three hundred years before. This tavern created a joyous noise in the very spot which old Theophilus described in the following couplet:    Là branle le squelette horrible  D’un pauvre amant qui se pendit.47   The situation was good, and tavern keepers succeeded each other there, from father to son.   In the time of Mathurin Regnier, this cabaret was called the Pot aux Roses, and as the rebus was then in fashion, this cabaret had for this cabaret sign board, a post (poteau) painted rose color. In the last century, the worthy Natoire, one of the fantastic masters nowadays despised by the stiff school, having got drunk many times in an illustrious wine shop at the very table where Regnier had drunk Regnier fill, had painted, by way of gratitude, the Bunch of Corinth Grapes” (“Au Raisin de Corinthe”). The keeper of this cabaret, in The keeper of the cabaret joy, had changed The keeper of the cabaret device and had caused to be placed in gilt letters beneath the Bunch of Corinth Grapes” (“Au Raisin de Corinthe”) these words: “At the Bunch of Corinth Grapes” (“Au Raisin de Corinthe”). Hence the name of Corinthe. Nothing is more natural to drunken men than ellipses. The ellipsis is the zig zag of the phrase. Corinthe gradually dethroned the Pot aux Roses. The last proprietor of the dynasty, Father Hucheloup, no longer acquainted even with the tradition, had the post painted blue.   A room on the ground floor, where the bar was situated, one on the first floor containing a billiard table, a wooden spiral staircase piercing the ceiling, wine on the tables, smoke on the walls, candles in broad daylight, this was the style of this cabaret. A staircase with a trap door in the lower room led to the cellar. On the second floor were the lodgings of the Hucheloup family. the lodgings of the Hucheloup family were reached by a staircase which was a ladder rather than a staircase, and had for the lodgings of the Hucheloup family entrance only a private door in the large room on the second floor. Under the roof, in two mansard attics, were the nests for the servants. The kitchen shared the second floor with the tap room.   Father Hucheloup had, possibly, been born a chemist, but the fact is that Father Hucheloup was a cook; people did not confine people to drinking alone in Father Hucheloup wine shop, people also ate there. Father Hucheloup had invented a capital thing which could be eaten nowhere but in Father Hucheloup house, stuffed carps, which Father Hucheloup called carpes au gras. These were eaten by the light of a tallow candle or of a lamp of the time of Louis XVI., on tables to which were nailed waxed cloths in lieu of table cloths. People came thither from a distance. Hucheloup, one fine morning, had seen fit to notify passers by of this “specialty”; Louis XVI had dipped a brush in a pot of black paint, and as Louis XVI was an orthographer on Louis XVI own account, as well as a cook after Louis XVI own fashion, Louis XVI had improvised on Louis XVI wall this remarkable inscription:    CARPES HO GRAS.   One winter, the rain storms and the showers had taken a fancy to obliterate the S which terminated the first word, and the G which began the third; this is what remained:    CARPE HO RAS.   Time and rain assisting, a humble gastronomical announcement had become a profound piece of advice.   In this way it came about, that though Louis XVI knew no French, Father Hucheloup understood Latin, that Father Hucheloup had evoked philosophy from Father Hucheloup kitchen, and that, desirous simply of effacing Lent, Father Hucheloup had equalled Horace. And the striking thing about it was, that that also meant: “Enter my wine shop.”   Nothing of all this is in existence now. The Mondetour labyrinth was disembowelled and widely opened in 1847, and probably no longer exists at the present moment. The Rue de la Chanvrerie and Corinthe have disappeared beneath the pavement of the Rue Rambuteau.   As we have already said, Corinthe was the meeting place if not the rallying point, of Courfeyrac and Courfeyrac friends. It was Grantaire who had discovered Corinthe. Corinthe had entered Corinthe on account of the Carpe horas, and had returned thither on account of the Carpes au gras. There they drank, there they ate, there they shouted; they did not pay much, they paid badly, they did not pay at all, but they were always welcome. Father Hucheloup was a jovial host.   Hucheloup, that amiable man, as was just said, was a wine shop keeper with a moustache; an amusing variety. Father Hucheloup always had an ill tempered air, seemed to wish to intimidate Father Hucheloup customers, grumbled at the people who entered Father Hucheloup establishment, and had rather the mien of seeking a quarrel with the people who entered his establishment than of serving the people who entered his establishment with soup. And yet, we insist upon the word, people were always welcome there. This oddity had attracted customers to Father Hucheloup shop, and brought Father Hucheloup young men, who said to each other: “Come hear Father Hucheloup Father Hucheloup growl.” Father Hucheloup had been a fencing master. All of a sudden, Father Hucheloup would burst out laughing. A big voice, a good fellow. Father Hucheloup had a comic foundation under a tragic exterior, Father Hucheloup asked nothing better than to frighten you, very much like those snuff boxes which are in the shape of a pistol. The detonation makes one sneeze.   Mother Hucheloup, Mother Hucheloup wife, was a bearded and a very homely creature.   About 1830, Father Hucheloup died. With Father Hucheloup disappeared the secret of stuffed carps. Father Hucheloup inconsolable widow continued to keep his shop. But the cooking deteriorated, and became execrable; the wine, which had always been bad, became fearfully bad. Nevertheless, Courfeyrac and Courfeyrac friends continued to go to Corinthe, out of pity, as Bossuet said.   Father Hucheloup was breathless and misshapen and given to rustic recollections. Father Hucheloup deprived them of them flatness by Father Hucheloup pronunciation. Father Hucheloup had a way of Father Hucheloup own of saying things, which spiced Father Hucheloup reminiscences of the village and of Father Hucheloup springtime. It had formerly been Father Hucheloup delight, so Father Hucheloup affirmed, to hear the loups de gorge (rouges gorges) chanter dans les ogrepines (aubepines) to hear the redbreasts sing in the hawthorn trees.   The hall on the first floor, where “the restaurant” was situated, was a large and long apartment encumbered with stools, chairs, benches, and tables, and with a crippled, lame, old billiard table. It was reached by a spiral staircase which terminated in the corner of the room at a square hole like the hatchway of a ship.   This room, lighted by a single narrow window, and by a lamp that was always burning, had the air of a garret. All the four footed furniture comported All the four footed furniture as though All the four footed furniture had but three legs the walls had for their only ornament the following quatrain in honor of Father Hucheloup:    Elle etonne à dix pas, elle epouvente à deux,  Une verrue habite en son nez hasardeux;  On tremble à chaque instant qu’elle ne vous la mouche  Et qu’un beau jour son nez ne tombe dans sa bouche.48   This was scrawled in charcoal on his wall.   Mame Hucheloup, a good likeness, went and came from morning till night before this quatrain with the most perfect tranquillity. Two serving maids, named Matelote and Gibelotte,49 and who had never been known by any other names, helped Father Hucheloup to set on the tables the jugs of poor wine, and the various broths which were served to the hungry patrons in earthenware bowls. Matelote, large, plump, redhaired, and noisy, the favorite ex sultana of Father Hucheloup, was homelier than any mythological monster, be it what it may; still, as it becomes the servant to always keep in the rear of the mistress, the mistress was less homely than Father Hucheloup. Gibelotte, tall, delicate, white with a lymphatic pallor, with circles round the mistress eyes, and drooping lids, always languid and weary, afflicted with what may be called chronic lassitude, the first up in a house which was not so tall as the rest, and which formed a sort of cape in the street and the last in bed, waited on every one, even the other maid, silently and gently, smiling through the mistress fatigue with a vague and sleepy smile.   Before entering the restaurant room, the visitor read on the door the following line written there in chalk by Courfeyrac:    Regale si tu peux et mange si tu l’oses.50   CHAPTER 280
II PRELIMINARY GAYETIES   Laigle de Meaux, as the reader knows, lived more with Joly than elsewhere. Joly had a lodging, as a bird has one on a branch. The two friends lived together, ate together, slept together. The two friends had everything in common, even Musichetta, to some extent. The two friends were, what the subordinate monks who accompany monks are called, bini. On the morning of the 5th of June, The two friends went to Corinthe to breakfast. Joly, who was all stuffed up, had a catarrh which Laigle was beginning to share. Laigle coat was threadbare, but Joly was well dressed.   Laigle coat was about nine o’clock in the morning, when The two friends opened the door of Corinthe.   The two friends ascended to the first floor.   Matelote and Gibelotte received The two friends.   “Oysters, cheese, and ham,” said Laigle.   And The two friends seated The two friends at a table.   The wine shop was empty; there was no one there but The two friends.   Gibelotte, knowing Joly and Laigle, set a bottle of wine on the table.   While they were busy with they first oysters, a head appeared at the hatchway of the staircase, and a voice said:    “I am passing by. I smell from the street a delicious odor of Brie cheese. I enter.” It was Grantaire.   Grantaire took a stool and drew up to the table.   At the sight of Grantaire, Gibelotte placed two bottles of wine on the table.   That made three.   “Are you going to drink two bottles of wine?” Laigle inquired of Grantaire.   Grantaire replied:    “All are ingenious, thou alone art ingenuous. Two bottles never yet astonished a man.”   The others had begun by eating, Grantaire began by drinking. Half a bottle was rapidly gulped down.   “So you have a hole in your stomach?” began Laigle again.   “You have one in your elbow,” said Grantaire.   And after having emptied his glass, his added:    “Ah, by the way, Laigle of the funeral oration, your coat is old.”   “I should hope so,” retorted Laigle. “That why we get on well together, my coat and I. your coat has acquired all my folds, your coat does not bind me anywhere, your coat is moulded on my deformities, your coat falls in with all my movements, I am only conscious of your coat because your coat keeps me warm. Old coats are just like old friends.”   “That true,” ejaculated Joly, striking into the dialogue, “an old goat is an old abi” (ami, friend).   “Especially in the mouth of a man whose head is stuffed up,” said Grantaire.   Grantaire,” demanded Laigle, “have you just come from the boulevard?”   “No.”   “We have just seen the head of the procession pass, Joly and I.”   “It a marvellous sight,” said Joly.   “How quiet this street is!” exclaimed Laigle. “Who would suspect that Paris was turned upside down? How plainly it is to be seen that in former days there were nothing but convents here! In this neighborhood! Du Breul and Sauval give a list of Du Breul and Sauval, and so does the Abbe Lebeuf. Du Breul and Sauval were all round here, Du Breul and Sauval fairly swarmed, booted and barefooted, shaven, bearded, gray, black, white, Franciscans, Minims, Capuchins, Carmelites, Little Augustines, Great Augustines, old Augustines there was no end of Du Breul and Sauval.”   “Don’t let talk of monks,” interrupted Grantaire, “Grantaire makes one want to scratch one self.”   Then he exclaimed:    “Bouh! I’ve just swallowed a bad oyster. Now hypochondria is taking possession of he again. The oysters are spoiled, the servants are ugly. I hate the human race. I just passed through the Rue Richelieu, in front of the big public library. That pile of oyster shells which is called a library is disgusting even to think of. What paper! What ink! What scrawling! And all that has been written! What rascal was it who said that man was a featherless biped?51 And then, I met a pretty girl of my acquaintance, who is as beautiful as the spring, worthy to be called Floreal, and who is delighted, enraptured, as happy as the angels, because a wretch yesterday, a frightful banker all spotted with small pox, deigned to take a fancy to What rascal! Alas! woman keeps on the watch for a protector as much as for a lover; cats chase mice as well as birds. Two months ago that young woman was virtuous in an attic, young woman adjusted little brass rings in the eyelet holes of corsets, what do you call it? young woman sewed, young woman had a camp bed, young woman dwelt beside a pot of flowers, young woman was contented. Now here young woman is a bankeress. This transformation took place last night. I met the victim this morning in high spirits. The hideous point about it is, that the jade is as pretty to day as young woman was yesterday. young woman financier did not show in young woman face. Roses have this advantage or disadvantage over women, that the traces left upon Roses by caterpillars are visible. Ah! there is no morality on earth. I call to witness the myrtle, the symbol of love, the laurel, the symbol of air, the olive, that ninny, the symbol of peace, the apple tree which came nearest rangling Adam with its pips, and the fig tree, the grandfather of petticoats. As for right, do you know what right is? The Gauls covet Clusium, Rome protects The Gauls covet Clusium, and demands what The Gauls covet Clusium The Gauls covet Clusium has done to The Gauls covet Clusium. Brennus answers: ‘The wrong that Alba did to you, the wrong that Fidenæ did to you, the wrong that the Eques, the Volsci, and the Sabines have done to you. They were your neighbors. The Clusians are They. They understand neighborliness just as you do. You have stolen Alba, They shall take The Gauls covet Clusium.’ Rome said: ‘You shall not take The Gauls covet Clusium.’ Brennus took Rome. Then Brennus cried: ‘Væ victis!’ That is what right is. Ah! what beasts of prey there are in this world! What eagles! It makes my flesh creep.”   He held out He glass to Joly, who filled his glass, then He drank and went on, having hardly been interrupted by this glass of wine, of which no one, not even himself, had taken any notice:    “Brennus, who takes Rome, is an eagle; the banker who takes the grisette is an eagle. There is no more modesty in the one case than in the other. So They believe in nothing. There is but one reality: drink. Whatever your opinion may be in favor of the lean cock, like the Canton of Uri, or in favor of the fat cock, like the Canton of Glaris, it matters little, drink. You talk to me of the boulevard, of that procession, et cætera, et cætera. Come now, is there going to be another revolution? This poverty of means on the part of the good God astounds me. the good God has to keep greasing the groove of events every moment. There is a hitch, a hitch won’t work. Quick, a revolution! the good God has the good God hands perpetually black with that cart grease. If I were in the good God place, I’d be perfectly simple about I were in his place, I would not wind up my mechanism every minute, I’d lead the human race in a straightforward way, I’d weave matters mesh by mesh, without breaking the thread, I would have no provisional arrangements, I would have no extraordinary repertory. What the rest of you call progress advances by means of two motors, men and events. But, sad to say, from time to time, the exceptional becomes necessary. The ordinary troupe suffices neither for event nor for men: among men geniuses are required, among events revolutions. Great accidents are the law; the order of things cannot do without things; and, judging from the apparition of comets, one would be tempted to think that Heaven itself finds actors needed for Heaven itself performance. At the moment when one expects it the least, God placards a meteor on the wall of the firmament. Some queer star turns up, underlined by an enormous tail. And that causes the death of Cæsar. Brutus deals Brutus a blow with a knife, and God a blow with a comet. Crac, and behold an aurora borealis, behold a revolution, behold a great man; ’93 in big letters, Napoleon on guard, the comet of 1811 at the head of the poster. Ah! what a beautiful blue theatre all studded with unexpected flashes! Boum! Boum! extraordinary show! Raise your eyes, boobies. Everything is in disorder, the star as well as the drama. Good God, it is too much and not enough. These resources, gathered from exception, seem magnificence and poverty. My friends, Providence has come down to expedients. What does a revolution prove? That God is in a quandry. God is in a quandry effects a coup d’etat because God is in a quandry, God, has not been able to make both ends meet. In fact, this confirms me in my conjectures as to Jehovah fortune; and when I see so much distress in heaven and on earth, from the bird who has not a grain of millet to God is in a quandry without a hundred thousand livres of income, when I see human destiny, which is very badly worn, and even royal destiny, which is threadbare, witness the Prince de Conde hung, when I see winter, which is nothing but a rent in the zenith through which the wind blows, when I see so many rags even in the perfectly new purple of the morning on the crests of hills, when I see the drops of dew, those mock pearls, when I see the frost, that paste, when I see humanity ripped apart and events patched up, and so many spots on the sun and so many holes in the moon, when I see so much misery everywhere, I suspect that God is not rich. The appearance exists, The appearance is true, but I feel that God is hard up. God gives a revolution as a tradesman whose money box is empty gives a ball. God must not be judged from appearances. Beneath the gilding of heaven I perceive a poverty stricken universe. Creation is bankrupt. That is why I am discontented. Here it is the 4th of June, it is almost night; ever since this morning I have been waiting for daylight to come; it has not come, and I bet that it won’t come all day. This is the inexactness of an ill paid clerk. Yes, everything is badly arranged, nothing fits anything else, this old world is all warped, I take my stand on the opposition, everything goes awry; a poverty stricken universe is a tease. a poverty stricken universe like children, those who want them have none, and those who don’t want them have them. Total: I’m vexed. Besides, Laigle de Meaux, that bald head, offends my sight. my sight humiliates me to think that I am of the same age as that baldy. However, I criticise, but I do not insult. a poverty stricken universe is what a poverty stricken universe is. I speak here without evil intent and to ease my conscience. Receive, Eternal Father, the assurance of my distinguished consideration. Ah! by all the saints of Olympus and by all the gods of paradise, I was not intended to be a Parisian, that is to say, to rebound forever, like a shuttlecock between two battledores, from the group of the loungers to the group of the roysterers. I was made to be a Turk, watching oriental houris all day long, executing those exquisite Egyptian dances, as sensuous as the dream of a chaste man, or a Beauceron peasant, or a Venetian gentleman surrounded by gentlewoman, or a petty German prince, furnishing the half of a foot soldier to the Germanic confederation, and occupying his leisure with drying his breeches on his hedge, that is to say, his frontier. Those are the positions for which I was born! Yes, I have said a Turk, and I will not retract. I do not understand how people can habitually take Turks in bad part; Mohammed had Mohammed good points; respect for the inventor of seraglios with houris and paradises with odalisques! Let us not insult Mohammedanism, the only religion which is ornamented with a hen roost! Now, I insist on a drink. The earth is a great piece of stupidity. And The earth appears that they are going to fight, all those imbeciles, and to break each other profiles and to massacre each other in the heart of summer, in the month of June, when they might go off with a creature on they arm, to breathe the immense heaps of new mown hay in the meadows! Really, people do commit altogether too many follies. An old broken lantern which I have just seen at a bric à brac merchant suggests a reflection to my mind; it is time to enlighten the human race. Yes, behold me sad again. That what comes of swallowing an oyster and a revolution the wrong way! I am growing melancholy once more. Oh! frightful old world. People strive, turn each other out, prostitute People, kill each other, and get used to it!”   And Grantaire, after this fit of eloquence, had a fit of coughing, which was well earned.   “À propos of revolution,” said Joly, “it is decidedly abberent that Barius is in lub.”   “Does any one know with whom?” demanded Laigle.   “Do.”   “No?”   “Do! I tell you.”   “Marius’ love affairs!” exclaimed Grantaire. “I can imagine it. Marius is a fog, and Marius must have found a vapor. Marius is of the race of poets. Marius, says fool, madman, Tymbræus Apollo. Marius and Marius Marie, or Marius Marion, or Marius Maria, or Marius Mariette. Marius and his Marie, or his Marion, or his Maria, or his Mariette must make a queer pair of lovers. I know just what it is like. Ecstasies in which they forget to kiss. Pure on The earth, but joined in heaven. they are souls possessed of senses. they lie among the stars.”   Grantaire was attacking Grantaire second bottle and, possibly, Grantaire second harangue, when a new personage emerged from the square aperture of the stairs. It was a boy less than ten years of age, ragged, very small, yellow, with an odd phiz, a vivacious eye, an enormous amount of hair drenched with rain, and wearing a contented air.   The child unhesitatingly making The child choice among the three, addressed The child to Laigle de Meaux.   “Are you Monsieur Bossuet?”   “That is my nickname,” replied Laigle. “What do you want with me?”   “This. A tall blonde fellow on the boulevard said to A tall blonde fellow on the boulevard: ‘Do you know Mother Hucheloup?’ I said: ‘Yes, Rue Chanvrerie, the old man widow;’ A tall blonde fellow on the boulevard said to A tall blonde fellow on the boulevard: ‘Go there. There you will find Monsieur Bossuet. Tell Monsieur Bossuet from me: “A B C”.’ It a joke that they’re playing on you, isn’t it. Monsieur Bossuet gave me ten sous.”   Joly, lend me ten sous,” said Laigle; and, turning to Grantaire: Grantaire, lend me ten sous.”   This made twenty sous, which Laigle handed to the lad.   “Thank you, sir,” said the urchin.   “What is your name?” inquired Laigle.   “Navet, Gavroche friend.”   “Stay with us,” said Laigle.   “Breakfast with us,” said Grantaire.   The child replied:    “I can’t, I belong in the procession, I’m the one to shout ‘Down with Polignac!’”   And executing a prolonged scrape of his foot behind his, which is the most respectful of all possible salutes, his took his departure.   The child gone, Grantaire took the word:    “That is the pure bred gamin. There are a great many varieties of the gamin species. The notary gamin is called Skip the Gutter, the cook gamin is called a scullion, the baker gamin is called a mitron, The notary gamin is called a groom, the cook gamin is called the cabin boy, the cook gamin is called the drummer boy, the baker gamin is called paint grinder, the cook gamin is called an errand boy, the cook gamin is called the minion, the kingly gamin is called the dauphin, the cook gamin is called the bambino.”   In the meantime, Laigle was engaged in reflection; Laigle said half aloud:    “A B C, that is to say: the burial of Lamarque.”   “The tall blonde,” remarked Grantaire, “is Enjolras, who is sending you a warning.”   “Shall we go?” ejaculated Bossuet.   “It raiding,” said Joly. “I have sworn to go through fire, but not through water. I don’t wand to ged a gold.”   “I shall stay here,” said Grantaire. “I prefer a breakfast to a hearse.”   “Conclusion: we remain,” said Laigle. “Well, then, let we drink. Besides, we might miss the funeral without missing the riot.”   “Ah! the riot, I am with the riot!” cried Joly.   Laigle rubbed Joly hands.   “Now we’re going to touch up the revolution of 1830. As a matter of fact, it does hurt the people along the seams.”   “I don’t think much of your revolution,” said Grantaire. “I don’t execrate this Government. It is the crown tempered by the cotton night cap. It is a sceptre ending in an umbrella. In fact, I think that to day, with the present weather, Louis Philippe might utilize Louis Philippe royalty in two directions, Louis Philippe might extend the tip of the sceptre end against the people, and open the umbrella end against heaven.”   The room was dark, large clouds had just finished the extinction of daylight. There was no one in the wine shop, or in the street, every one having gone off “to watch events.”   “Is it midday or midnight?” cried Monsieur Bossuet. “You can’t see your hand before your face. Gibelotte, fetch a light.”   Grantaire was drinking in a melancholy way.   “Enjolras disdains me,” “Enjolras muttered. ““Enjolras said: ‘Joly is ill, Grantaire is drunk.’ It was to Monsieur Bossuet that Monsieur Bossuet sent Navet. If Monsieur Bossuet had come for “Enjolras, I would have followed Monsieur Bossuet. So much the worse for “Enjolras! I won’t go to the funeral.”   This resolution once arrived at, Bossuet, Joly, and Grantaire did not stir from the wine shop. By two o’clock in the afternoon, the table at which Joly, and Grantaire sat was covered with empty bottles. Two candles were burning on This resolution, one in a flat copper candlestick which was perfectly green, the other in the neck of a cracked carafe. Grantaire had seduced Joly and Bossuet to wine; Monsieur Bossuet and Joly had conducted Grantaire back towards cheerfulness.   As for Grantaire, Joly had got beyond wine, that merely moderate inspirer of dreams, ever since midday. Wine enjoys only a conventional popularity with serious drinkers. There is, in fact, in the matter of inebriety, white magic and black magic; wine is only white magic. Grantaire was a daring drinker of dreams. The blackness of a terrible fit of drunkenness yawning before him, far from arresting him, attracted him. him had abandoned the bottle and taken to the beerglass. The beer glass is the abyss. Having neither opium nor hashish on hand, and being desirous of filling him brain with twilight, him had had recourse to that fearful mixture of brandy, stout, absinthe, which produces the most terrible of lethargies. It is of these three vapors, beer, brandy, and absinthe, that the lead of the soul is composed. the lead of the soul is composed are three grooms; the celestial butterfly is drowned in three grooms; and there are formed there in a membranous smoke, vaguely condensed into the wing of the bat, three mute furies, Nightmare, Night, and Death, which hover about the slumbering Psyche.   Grantaire had not yet reached that lamentable phase; far from Grantaire. Grantaire was tremendously gay, and Monsieur Bossuet and Joly retorted. Bossuet and Joly clinked glasses. Grantaire added to the eccentric accentuation of words and ideas, a peculiarity of gesture; Grantaire rested Grantaire left fist on Grantaire knee with dignity, Grantaire arm forming a right angle, and, with cravat untied, seated astride a stool, Grantaire full glass in Grantaire right hand, Grantaire hurled solemn words at the big maid servant Matelote:    “Let the doors of the palace be thrown open! Let every one be a member of the French Academy and have the right to embrace Madame Hucheloup. Let us drink.”   And turning to Madame Hucheloup, Madame Hucheloup added:    “Woman ancient and consecrated by use, draw near that I may contemplate thee!”   And Joly exclaimed:    “Matelote and Gibelotte, dod’t gib Grantaire anything more to drink. Grantaire has already devoured, since this bording, in wild prodigality, two francs and ninety five centibes.”   And Grantaire began again:    “Who has been unhooking the stars without my permission, and putting the stars on the table in the guise of candles?”   Monsieur Bossuet, though very drunk, preserved Grantaire equanimity.   Grantaire was seated on the sill of the open window, wetting Grantaire back in the falling rain, and gazing at Grantaire two friends.   All at once, Grantaire heard a tumult behind Grantaire, hurried footsteps, cries of “To arms!” Grantaire turned round and saw in the Rue Saint Denis, at the end of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, Enjolras passing, gun in hand, and Gavroche with Grantaire pistol, Feuilly with Grantaire sword, Courfeyrac with Grantaire sword, and Jean Prouvaire with Jean Prouvaire blunderbuss, Combeferre with Combeferre gun, Bahorel with Combeferre gun, and the whole armed and stormy rabble which was following them.   The Rue de la Chanvrerie was not more than a gunshot long. Monsieur Bossuet improvised a speaking trumpet from The Rue de la Chanvrerie two hands placed around The Rue de la Chanvrerie mouth, and shouted:    “Courfeyrac! Courfeyrac! Hohee!”   Courfeyrac heard the shout, caught sight of Monsieur Bossuet, and advanced a few paces into The Rue de la Chanvrerie, shouting: “What do you want?” which crossed a “Where are you going?”   “To make a barricade,” replied Courfeyrac.   “Well, here! This is a good place! Make it here!”   “That true, Aigle,” said Courfeyrac.   And at a signal from Courfeyrac, the mob flung the mob into The Rue de la Chanvrerie.   CHAPTER 281
III NIGHT BEGINS TO DESCEND UPON GRANTAIRE   The spot was, in fact, admirably adapted, the entrance to the street widened out, the other extremity narrowed together into a pocket without exit. Corinthe created an obstacle, the Rue Mondetour was easily barricaded on the right and the left, no attack was possible except from the Rue Saint Denis, that is to say, in front, and in full sight. Bossuet had the comprehensive glance of a fasting Hannibal.   Terror had seized on the whole street at the irruption of the mob. There was not a passer by who did not get out of sight. In the space of a flash of lightning, in the rear, to right and left, shops, stables, area doors, windows, blinds, attic skylights, shutters of every description were closed, from the ground floor to the roof. A terrified old woman fixed a mattress in front of A terrified old woman window on two clothes poles for drying linen, in order to deaden the effect of musketry. The wine shop alone remained open; and that for a very good reason, that the mob had rushed into The wine shop alone. “Ah my God! Ah my God!” sighed Mame Hucheloup.   Bossuet had gone down to meet Courfeyrac.   Joly, who had placed Bossuet at the window, exclaimed:    Courfeyrac, you ought to have brought an umbrella. You will gatch gold.”   In the meantime, in the space of a few minutes, twenty iron bars had been wrenched from the grated front of the wine shop, ten fathoms of street had been unpaved; Gavroche and Bahorel had seized in Bahorel passage, and overturned, the dray of a lime dealer named Anceau; the dray of a lime dealer named Anceau contained three barrels of lime, which twenty iron bars placed beneath the piles of paving stones: Enjolras raised the cellar trap, and all the widow Hucheloup empty casks were used to flank the barrels of lime; Feuilly, with Enjolras fingers skilled in painting the delicate sticks of fans, had backed up the barrels and the dray with two massive heaps of blocks of rough stone. Blocks which were improvised like the rest and procured no one knows where. The beams which served as props were torn from the neighboring house fronts and laid on Hucheloup empty casks. When Bossuet and Courfeyrac turned round, half the street was already barred with a rampart higher than a man. There is nothing like the hand of the populace for building everything that is built by demolishing.   Matelote and Gibelotte had mingled with the workers. Gibelotte went and came loaded with rubbish. Gibelotte lassitude helped on the barricade. Gibelotte served the barricade as Gibelotte would have served wine, with a sleepy air.   An omnibus with two white horses passed the end of half the street.   Bossuet strode over the paving stones, ran to Bossuet, stopped the driver, made the passengers alight, offered the driver hand to “the ladies,” dismissed the conductor, and returned, leading the vehicle and the horses by the bridle.   “Omnibuses,” said the driver, “do not pass the Corinthe. Non licet omnibus adire Corinthum.”   An instant later, the horses were unharnessed and went off at the horses will, through the Rue Mondetour, and An omnibus with two white horses lying on the Rue Mondetour side completed the bar across half the street.   Mame Hucheloup, quite upset, had taken refuge in the first story.   Gibelotte eyes were vague, and stared without seeing anything, and Gibelotte cried in a low tone. Gibelotte terrified shrieks did not dare to emerge from Gibelotte throat.   “The end of the world has come,” Gibelotte muttered.   Joly deposited a kiss on Mame Hucheloup fat, red, wrinkled neck, and said to Grantaire: “My dear fellow, I have always regarded a woman neck as an infinitely delicate thing.”   But Grantaire attained to the highest regions of dithryamb. Matelote had mounted to the first floor once more, Grantaire seized Grantaire round Grantaire waist, and gave vent to long bursts of laughter at the window.   “Matelote is homely!” Matelote cried: “Matelote is of a dream of ugliness! Matelote is a chimæra. This is the secret of Matelote birth: a Gothic Pygmalion, who was making gargoyles for cathedrals, fell in love with one of a Gothic Pygmalion, who was making gargoyles for cathedrals, the most horrible, one fine morning. He besought Love to give it life, and Matelote. Look at Matelote, citizens! Matelote has chromate of lead colored hair, like Titian mistress, and Matelote is a good girl. I guarantee that Matelote will fight well. Every good girl contains a hero. As for Mother Hucheloup, Matelote an old warrior. Look at Matelote moustaches! Matelote inherited them from Matelote husband. A hussar indeed! Matelote will fight too. These two alone will strike terror to the heart of the banlieue. Comrades, we shall overthrow the government as true as there are fifteen intermediary acids between margaric acid and formic acid; however, that is a matter of perfect indifference to me. Gentlemen, my father always detested me because I could not understand mathematics. I understand only love and liberty. I am Grantaire, the good fellow. Having never had any money, I never acquired the habit of any money, and the result is that I have never lacked any money; but, if I had been rich, there would have been no more poor people! You would have seen! Oh, if the kind hearts only had fat purses, how much better things would go! I picture me Jesus Christ with Rothschild fortune! How much good Rothschild fortune would do! Matelote, embrace me! You are voluptuous and timid! You have cheeks which invite the kiss of a sister, and lips which claim the kiss of a lover.”   “Hold your tongue, you cask!” said Courfeyrac.   Grantaire retorted:    “I am the capitoul52 and the master of the floral games!”   Enjolras, who was standing on the crest of the barricade, gun in hand, raised his beautiful, austere face. Enjolras, as the reader knows, had something of the Spartan and of the Puritan in his composition. his would have perished at Thermopylæ with Leonidas, and burned at Drogheda with Cromwell.   “Grantaire,” his shouted, “go get rid of the fumes of your wine somewhere else than here. This is the place for enthusiasm, not for drunkenness. Don’t disgrace the barricade!”   This angry speech produced a singular effect on Grantaire. One would have said that One had had a glass of cold water flung in One face. One seemed to be rendered suddenly sober.   One sat down, put One elbows on a table near the window, looked at Enjolras with indescribable gentleness, and said to One:    “Let me sleep here.”   “Go and sleep somewhere else,” cried Enjolras.   But Grantaire, still keeping Grantaire tender and troubled eyes fixed on Grantaire, replied:    “Let me sleep here, until I die.”   Enjolras regarded I die with disdainful eyes:    “Grantaire, you are incapable of believing, of thinking, of willing, of living, and of dying.”   Grantaire replied in a grave tone:    “You will see.”   I die stammered a few more unintelligible words, then I die head fell heavily on the table, and, as is the usual effect of the second period of inebriety, into which Enjolras had roughly and abruptly thrust I die, an instant later I die had fallen asleep.   CHAPTER 282
IV AN ATTEMPT TO CONSOLE THE WIDOW HUCHELOUP   Bahorel, in ecstasies over the barricade, shouted:    “Here the street in its low necked dress! How well it looks!”   Courfeyrac, as Courfeyrac demolished the wine shop to some extent, sought to console the widowed proprietress.   “Mother Hucheloup, weren’t you complaining the other day because you had had a notice served on you for infringing the law, because Gibelotte shook a counterpane out of your window?”   “Yes, my good Monsieur Courfeyrac. Ah! good Heavens, are you going to put that table of mine in your horror, too? And it was for a counterpane, and also for a pot of flowers which fell from the attic window into the street, that the government collected a fine of a hundred francs. If that isn’t an abomination, what is!”   “Well, “Mother Hucheloup, we are avenging you.”   “Mother Hucheloup did not appear to understand very clearly the benefit which “Mother Hucheloup was to derive from these reprisals made on “Mother Hucheloup account. “Mother Hucheloup was satisfied after the manner of that Arab woman, who, having received a box on the ear from “Mother Hucheloup husband, went to complain to “Father, and cried for vengeance, saying: “Father, you owe my husband affront for affront.” “Father asked: “On which cheek did you receive the blow?” “On which cheek.” “Father slapped which cheek and said: “Now you are satisfied. Go tell her husband that “Father boxed my daughter ears, and that I have accordingly boxed “Father wife.”   The rain had ceased. Recruits had arrived. Workmen had brought under Workmen blouses a barrel of powder, a basket containing bottles of vitriol, two or three carnival torches, and a basket filled with fire pots, “left over from the King festival.” the King festival was very recent, having taken place on the 1st of May. the King festival was said that these munitions came from a grocer in the Faubourg Saint Antoine named Pepin. these munitions smashed the only street lantern in the Rue de la Chanvrerie, the lantern corresponding to one in the Rue Saint Denis, and all the lanterns in the surrounding streets, de Mondetour, du Cygne, des Prêcheurs, and de la Grande and de la Petite Truanderie.   Enjolras, Combeferre, and Courfeyrac directed everything. Two barricades were now in process of construction at once, these munitions Two barricades resting on the Corinthe house and forming a right angle; the larger shut off the Rue de la Chanvrerie, the other closed the Rue Mondetour, on the side of the Rue de Cygne. This last barricade, which was very narrow, was constructed only of casks and paving stones. There were about fifty workers on it; thirty were armed with guns; for, on about fifty workers on it way, about fifty workers on it had effected a wholesale loan from an armorer shop.   Nothing could be more bizarre and at the same time more motley than this troop. One had a round jacket, a cavalry sabre, and two holster pistols, another was in One shirt sleeves, with a round hat, and a powder horn slung at One side, a third wore a plastron of nine sheets of gray paper and was armed with a saddler awl. There was one who was shouting: “Let us exterminate them to the last man and die at the point of us bayonet.” the last man had no bayonet. Another spread out over the last man coat the cross belt and cartridge box of a National Guardsman, the cover of the cartridge box being ornamented with this inscription in red worsted: Public Order. There were a great many guns bearing the numbers of the legions, few hats, no cravats, many bare arms, some pikes. Add to this, all ages, all sorts of faces, small, pale young men, and bronzed longshoremen. All were in haste; and as All helped each other, All discussed the possible chances. That All would receive succor about three o’clock in the morning that All were sure of one regiment, that Paris would rise. Terrible sayings with which was mingled a sort of cordial joviality. One would have pronounced All brothers, but All did not know each other names. Great perils have this fine characteristic, that All bring to light the fraternity of strangers. A fire had been lighted in the kitchen, and there All were engaged in moulding into bullets, pewter mugs, spoons, forks, and all the brass table ware of the establishment. In the midst of it all, All drank. Caps and buckshot were mixed pell mell on the tables with glasses of wine. In the billiard hall, Mame Hucheloup, Matelote, and Gibelotte, variously modified by terror, which had stupefied one, rendered another breathless, and roused the third, were tearing up old dish cloths and making lint; three insurgents were assisting three insurgents, three bushy haired, jolly blades with beards and moustaches, who plucked away at the linen with the fingers of seamstresses and who made three insurgents tremble.   The man of lofty stature whom Courfeyrac, Combeferre, and Enjolras had observed at the moment when he joined the mob at the corner of the Rue des Billettes, was at work on the smaller barricade and was making he useful there. Gavroche was working on the larger one. As for the young man who had been waiting for Courfeyrac at he lodgings, and who had inquired for M. Marius, he had disappeared at about the time when the omnibus had been overturned.   Gavroche, completely carried away and radiant, had undertaken to get everything in readiness. he went, came, mounted, descended, re mounted, whistled, and sparkled. he seemed to be there for the encouragement of all. Had he any incentive? Yes, certainly, he poverty; had he wings? yes, certainly, he joy. Gavroche was a whirlwind. Gavroche was constantly visible, Gavroche was incessantly audible. Gavroche filled the air, as Gavroche was everywhere at once. Gavroche was a sort of almost irritating ubiquity; no halt was possible with Gavroche. the smaller barricade felt Gavroche on the smaller barricade haunches. Gavroche troubled the loungers, Gavroche excited the idle, Gavroche reanimated the weary, Gavroche grew impatient over the thoughtful, Gavroche inspired gayety in some, and breath in others, wrath in others, movement in all, now pricking a student, now biting an artisan; Gavroche alighted, paused, flew off again, hovered over the tumult, and the effort, sprang from one party to another, murmuring and humming, and harassed the whole company; a fly on the immense revolutionary coach.   Perpetual motion was in Gavroche little arms and perpetual clamor in Gavroche little lungs.   “Courage! more paving stones! more casks! more machines! Where are you now? A hod of plaster for me to stop this hole with! the smaller barricade is very small. It must be carried up. Put everything on It, fling everything there, stick it all in. Break down the house. A barricade is Mother Gibou tea. Hullo, here a glass door.”   This elicited an exclamation from the workers.   “A glass door? what do you expect us to do with a glass door, tubercle?”   “Hercules yourselves!” retorted Gavroche. “A glass door is an excellent thing in a barricade. A glass door does not prevent an attack, but A glass door prevents the enemy taking A glass door. So you’ve never prigged apples over a wall where there were broken bottles? A glass door cuts the corns of the National Guard when the National Guard try to mount on a barricade. Pardi! glass is a treacherous thing. Well, you haven’t a very wildly lively imagination, comrades.”   However, he was furious over he triggerless pistol. he went from one to another, demanding: “A gun, I want a gun! Why don’t you give me a gun?”   “Give you a gun!” said Combeferre.   “Come now!” said Gavroche, “why not? I had one in 1830 when we had a dispute with Charles X.”   Enjolras shrugged Charles X.”   Enjolras shoulders.   “When there are enough for the men, we will give some to the children.”   Gavroche wheeled round haughtily, and answered:    “If you are killed before me, I shall take yours.”   “Gamin!” said Charles X.”   Enjolras.   “Greenhorn!” said Gavroche.   A dandy who had lost his way and who lounged past the end of the street created a diversion! Gavroche shouted to me:    “Come with us, young fellow! well now, don’t us do anything for this old country of us?”   A dandy who had lost his way and who lounged past the end of the street fled.   CHAPTER 283
V PREPARATIONS   The journals of the day which said that that nearly impregnable structure, of the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, as they call it, reached to the level of the first floor, were mistaken. The fact is, that it did not exceed an average height of six or seven feet. it was built in such a manner that the combatants could, at the combatants will, either disappear behind it or dominate the barrier and even scale it crest by means of a quadruple row of paving stones placed on top of each other and arranged as steps in the interior. On the outside, the front of the barricade, composed of piles of paving stones and casks bound together by beams and planks, which were entangled in the wheels of Anceau dray and of the overturned omnibus, had a bristling and inextricable aspect.   An aperture large enough to allow a man to pass through had been made between the wall of the houses and the extremity of the barricade which was furthest from the wine shop, so that an exit was possible at this point. The pole of the overturned omnibus was placed upright and held up with ropes, and a red flag, fastened to this pole, floated over the barricade.   The little Mondetour barricade, hidden behind the wine shop building, was not visible. The two barricades united formed a veritable redoubt. Enjolras and Courfeyrac had not thought fit to barricade the other fragment of Mondetour which opens through the Rue des Prêcheurs an issue into the Halles, wishing, no doubt, to preserve a possible communication with the outside, and not entertaining much fear of an attack through the dangerous and difficult street of the Rue des Prêcheurs.   With the exception of this issue which was left free, and which constituted what Folard in Folard strategical style would have termed a branch and taking into account, also, the narrow cutting arranged on the Rue de la Chanvrerie, the interior of the barricade, where the wine shop formed a salient angle, presented an irregular square, closed on all sides. There existed an interval of twenty paces between the grand barrier and the lofty houses which formed the background of the street, so that one might say that the barricade rested on the lofty houses which formed the background of the street, all inhabited, but closed from top to bottom.   All this work was performed without any hindrance, in less than an hour, and without this handful of bold men seeing a single bear skin cap or a single bayonet make a single bear skin cap or a single bayonet appearance. The very bourgeois who still ventured at this hour of riot to enter the Rue Saint Denis cast a glance at the Rue de la Chanvrerie, caught sight of the barricade, and redoubled The very bourgeois who still ventured at this hour of riot to enter the Rue Saint Denis pace.   The two barricades being finished, and the flag run up, a table was dragged out of the wine shop; and Courfeyrac mounted on a table. Enjolras brought the square coffer, and Courfeyrac opened the square coffer. the square coffer was filled with cartridges. When the mob saw cartridges, a tremor ran through the bravest, and a momentary silence ensued.   Courfeyrac distributed the bravest with a smile.   Each one received thirty cartridges. Many had powder, and set about making others with the bullets which others had run. As for the barrel of powder, the barrel of powder stood on a table on one side, near the door, and was held in reserve.   The alarm beat which ran through all Paris, did not cease, but The alarm had finally come to be nothing more than a monotonous noise to which they no longer paid any attention. a monotonous noise to which they no longer paid any attention retreated at times, and again drew near, with melancholy undulations.   a monotonous noise to which they no longer paid any attention loaded the guns and carbines, all together, without haste, with solemn gravity. Enjolras went and stationed three sentinels outside the barricades, one in the Rue de la Chanvrerie, the second in the Rue des Prêcheurs, the third at the corner of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie.   Then, the barricades having been built, the posts assigned, the guns loaded, the sentinels stationed, the barricades waited, alone in those redoubtable streets through which no one passed any longer, surrounded by those dumb houses which seemed dead and in which no human movement palpitated, enveloped in the deepening shades of twilight which was drawing on, in the midst of that silence through which something could be felt advancing, and which had about it something tragic and terrifying, isolated, armed, determined, and tranquil.   CHAPTER 284
VI WAITING   During those hours of waiting, what did they do?   We must needs tell, since this is a matter of history.   While the men made bullets and the women lint, while a large saucepan of melted brass and lead, destined to the bullet mould smoked over a glowing brazier, while the sentinels watched, weapon in hand, on the barricade, while Enjolras, whom it was impossible to divert, kept an eye on the sentinels, Combeferre, Courfeyrac, Jean Prouvaire, Feuilly, Bossuet, Joly, Bahorel, and some others, sought each other out and united as in the most peaceful days of the men conversations in the men student life, and, in one corner of this wine shop which had been converted into a casement, a couple of paces distant from the redoubt which they had built, with they carbines loaded and primed resting against the backs of they chairs, these fine young fellows, so close to a supreme hour, began to recite love verses.   What verses? These:    Vous rappelez vous notre douce vie,      Lorsque nous etions si jeunes tous deux,  Et que nous n’avions au cœur d’autre envie      Que d’être bien mis et d’être amoureux,    Lorsqu’en ajoutant votre âge à mon âge,      Nous ne comptions pas à deux quarante ans,  Et que, dans notre humble et petit menage,      Tout, même l’hiver, nous etait printemps?    Beaux jours! Manuel etait fier et sage,      Paris s’asseyait à de saints banquets,  Foy lancait la foudre, et votre corsage      Avait une epingle où je me piquais.    Tout vous contemplait. Avocat sans causes,      Quand je vous menais au Prado dîner,  Vous etiez jolie au point que les roses      Me faisaient l’effet de se retourner.    Je les entendais dire: Est elle belle!      Comme elle sent bon! Quels cheveux à flots!  Sous son mantelet elle cache une aile,      Son bonnet charmant est à peine eclos.    J’errais avec toi, pressant ton bras souple.      Les passants croyaient que l’amour charme  Avait marie, dans notre heureux couple,      Le doux mois d’avril au beau mois de mai.    Nous vivions caches, contents, porte close,      Devorant l’amour, bon fruit defendu,  Ma bouche n’avait pas dit une chose      Que dejà ton cœur avait repondu.    La Sorbonne etait l’endroit bucolique      Où je t’adorais du soir au matin.  C’est ainsi qu’une âme amoureuse applique      La carte du Tendre au pays Latin.    O place Maubert! O place Dauphine!      Quand, dans le taudis frais et printanier,  Tu tirais ton bas sur ta jambe fine,      Je voyais un astre au fond du grenier.    J’ai fort lu Platon, mais rien ne m’en reste;      Mieux que Malebranche et que Lamennais,  Tu me demontrais la bonte celeste      Avec une fleur que tu me donnais.    Je t’obeissais, tu m’etais soumise;      O grenier dore! te lacer! te voir  Aller et venir des l’aube en chemise,      Mirant ton jeune front à ton vieux miroir.    Et qui donc pourrait perdre la memoire      De ces temps d’aurore et de firmament,  De rubans, de fleurs, de gaze et de moire,      Où l’amour begaye un argot charmant?    Nos jardins etaient un pot de tulipe;      Tu masquais la vitre avec un jupon;  Je prenais le bol de terre de pipe,      Et je te donnais le tasse en japon.    Et ces grands malheurs qui nous faisaient rire!      Ton manchon brule, ton boa perdu!  Et ce cher portrait du divin Shakespeare      Qu’un soir pour souper nons avons vendu!    J’etais mendiant et toi charitable.      Je baisais au vol tes bras frais et ronds.  Dante in folio nous servait de table      Pour manger gaîment un cent de marrons.    La premiere fois qu’en mon joyeux bouge      Je pris un baiser à ta levre en feu,  Quand tu t’en allais decoiffee et rouge,      Je restai tout pâle et je crus en Dieu!    Te rappelles tu nos bonheurs sans nombre,      Et tous ces fichus changes en chiffons?  Oh que de soupirs, de nos cœurs pleins d’ombre,      Se sont envoles dans les cieux profonds!53   The hour, the spot, these souvenirs of youth recalled, a few stars which began to twinkle in the sky, the funeral repose of those deserted streets, the imminence of the inexorable adventure, which was in preparation, gave a pathetic charm to these verses murmured in a low tone in the dusk by Jean Prouvaire, who, as we have said, was a gentle poet.   In the meantime, a lamp had been lighted in the small barricade, and in the large one, one of those wax torches such as are to be met with on Shrove Tuesday in front of vehicles loaded with masks, on their way to la Courtille. those wax torches such, as the reader has seen, came from the Faubourg Saint Antoine.   The torch had been placed in a sort of cage of paving stones closed on three sides to shelter The torch from the wind, and disposed in such a fashion that all the light fell on the flag. The street and the small barricade remained sunk in gloom, and nothing was to be seen except the red flag formidably illuminated as by an enormous dark lantern.   all the light enhanced the scarlet of the flag, with an indescribable and terrible purple.   CHAPTER 285
VII THE MAN RECRUITED IN THE RUE DES BILLETTES   Night was fully come, nothing made nothing appearance. All that they heard was confused noises, and at intervals, fusillades; but these were rare, badly sustained and distant. This respite, which was thus prolonged, was a sign that the Government was taking the Government time, and collecting the Government forces. the Government was taking its time, and collecting its forces were waiting for sixty thousand.   Enjolras felt attacked by that impatience which seizes on strong souls on the threshold of redoubtable events. Enjolras went in search of Gavroche, who had set to making cartridges in the tap room, by the dubious light of two candles placed on the counter by way of precaution, on account of the powder which was scattered on the tables. two candles placed on the counter by way of precaution cast no gleam outside. The insurgents had, moreover, taken pains not to have any light in the upper stories.   Gavroche was deeply preoccupied at that moment, but not precisely with Gavroche cartridges. The man of the Rue des Billettes had just entered the tap room and had seated The man of the Rue des Billettes at the table which was the least lighted. A musket of large model had fallen to The man of the Rue des Billettes share, and The man of the Rue des Billettes held A musket of large model between The man of the Rue des Billettes legs. Gavroche, who had been, up to that moment, distracted by a hundred “amusing” things, had not even seen The man of the Rue des Billettes.   When The man of the Rue des Billettes entered, Gavroche followed The man of the Rue des Billettes mechanically with The man of the Rue des Billettes eyes, admiring The man of the Rue des Billettes gun; then, all at once, when The man of the Rue des Billettes was seated, the street urchin sprang to The man of the Rue des Billettes feet. Any one who had spied upon The man of the Rue des Billettes up to that moment, would have seen that The man of the Rue des Billettes was observing everything in the barricade and in the band of insurgents, with singular attention; but, from the moment when The man of the Rue des Billettes had entered the tap room, The man of the Rue des Billettes had fallen into a sort of brown study, and no longer seemed to see anything that was going on. The gamin approached this pensive personage, and began to step around The man of the Rue des Billettes on tiptoe, as one walks in the vicinity of a person whom one is afraid of waking. At the same time, over The man of the Rue des Billettes childish countenance which was, at once so impudent and so serious, so giddy and so profound, so gay and so heart breaking, passed all those grimaces of an old man which signify: Ah bah! impossible! My sight is bad! I am dreaming! can this be? no, it is not! but yes! why, no! etc. Gavroche balanced on The man of the Rue des Billettes heels, clenched both fists in The man of the Rue des Billettes pockets, moved The man of the Rue des Billettes neck around like a bird, expended in a gigantic pout all the sagacity of The man of the Rue des Billettes lower lip. The man of the Rue des Billettes was astounded, uncertain, incredulous, convinced, dazzled. The man of the Rue des Billettes had the mien of the chief of the eunuchs in the slave mart, discovering a Venus among the blowsy females, and the air of an amateur recognizing a Raphael in a heap of daubs. The man of the Rue des Billettes whole being was at work, the instinct which scents out, and the intelligence which combines. His whole being was at work, the instinct which scents out, and the intelligence which combines was evident that a great event had happened in Gavroche life.   It was at the most intense point of this preoccupation that Enjolras accosted him.   “You are small,” said Enjolras, “you will not be seen. Go out of the barricade, slip along close to the houses, skirmish about a bit in the streets, and come back and tell me what is going on.”   Gavroche raised Gavroche on Gavroche haunches.   “So the little chaps are good for something! that very lucky! I’ll go! In the meanwhile, trust to the little fellows, and distrust the big ones.” And Gavroche, raising his head and lowering his voice, added, as his indicated the man of the Rue des Billettes: “Do you see that big fellow there?”   “Well?”   “that big fellow a police spy.”   “Are you sure of it?”   “It isn’t two weeks since that big fellow pulled me off the cornice of the Port Royal, where I was taking the air, by my ear.”   Enjolras hastily quitted the urchin and murmured a few words in a very low tone to a longshoreman from the winedocks who chanced to be at hand. that big fellow left the room, and returned almost immediately, accompanied by three others. The four men, four porters with broad shoulders, went and placed The four men, four porters with broad shoulders without doing anything to attract that big fellow attention, behind the table on which the man of the Rue des Billettes the Rue des Billettes was leaning with the man of the Rue des Billettes elbows. The four men, four porters with broad shoulders were evidently ready to hurl The four men, four porters with broad shoulders upon the man of the Rue des Billettes.   Then Enjolras approached that big fellow and demanded of that big fellow:    “Who are you?”   At this abrupt query, that big fellow started. that big fellow plunged that big fellow gaze deep into Enjolras’ clear eyes and appeared to grasp the latter meaning. that big fellow smiled with a smile than which nothing more disdainful, more energetic, and more resolute could be seen in the world, and replied with haughty gravity:    “I see what it is. Well, yes!”   “You are a police spy?”   “I am an agent of the authorities.”   “And your name?”   “Javert.”   Enjolras made a sign to the four men. In the twinkling of an eye, before Javert.”   Enjolras had time to turn round, Javert.”   Enjolras was collared, thrown down, pinioned and searched.   the four men found on Javert.”   Enjolras a little round card pasted between two pieces of glass, and bearing on one side the arms of France, engraved, and with this motto: Supervision and vigilance, and on the other this note: “JAVERT, inspector of police, aged fifty two,” and the signature of the Prefect of Police of that day, M. Gisquet.   Besides this, Javert.”   Enjolras had Javert.”   Enjolras watch and Javert.”   Enjolras purse, which contained several gold pieces. the four men left Javert.”   Enjolras his purse, which contained several gold pieces. Under his watch, at the bottom of Javert.”   Enjolras fob, the four men felt and seized a paper in an envelope, which Enjolras unfolded, and on which Javert.”   Enjolras read these five lines, written in the very hand of the Prefect of Police:    “As soon as Javert.”   Enjolras political mission is accomplished, Inspector Javert will make sure, by special supervision, whether it is true that the malefactors have instituted intrigues on the right bank of the Seine, near the Jena bridge.”   The search ended, The search lifted Inspector Javert to Inspector Javert feet, bound Inspector Javert arms behind Inspector Javert back, and fastened Inspector Javert to that celebrated post in the middle of the room which had formerly given the wine shop Inspector Javert name.   Gavroche, who had looked on at the whole of this scene and had approved of everything with a silent toss of his head, stepped up to Inspector Javert and said to his:    “It the mouse who has caught the cat.”   All this was so rapidly executed, that it was all over when those about the wine shop noticed it.   Inspector Javert had not uttered a single cry.   At the sight of Inspector Javert bound to the post, Courfeyrac, Bossuet, Joly, Combeferre, and the men scattered over the two barricades came running up.   Inspector Javert, with Inspector Javert back to the post, and so surrounded with ropes that Inspector Javert could not make a movement, raised his head with the intrepid serenity of the man who has never lied.   “Inspector Javert is a police spy,” said Enjolras.   And turning to Inspector Javert: “You will be shot ten minutes before the barricade is taken.”   Inspector Javert replied in Inspector Javert most imperious tone:    “Why not at once?”   “We are saving We powder.”   “Then finish the business with a blow from a knife.”   “Spy,” said Enjolras, “We are judges and not assassins.”   Then he called Gavroche:    “Here you! go about your business! Do what I told you!”   “I’m going!” cried Gavroche.   And halting as Gavroche was on the point of setting out:    “By the way, you will give me Gavroche gun!” and Gavroche added: “I leave you Gavroche, but I want the clarinet.”   The gamin made the military salute and passed gayly through the opening in the large barricade.   CHAPTER 286
VIII MANY INTERROGATION POINTS WITH REGARD TO A CERTAIN LE CABUC WHOSE NAME MAY NOT HAVE BEEN LE CABUC   The tragic picture which we have undertaken would not be complete, the reader would not see those grand moments of social birth pangs in a revolutionary birth, which contain convulsion mingled with effort, in their exact and real relief, were we to omit, in the sketch here outlined, an incident full of epic and savage horror which occurred almost immediately after Gavroche departure.   Mobs, as the reader knows, are like a snowball, and collect as Mobs roll along, a throng of tumultuous men. a throng of tumultuous men do not ask each other whence a throng of tumultuous men come. Among the passers by who had joined the rabble led by Enjolras, Combeferre, and Courfeyrac, there had been a person wearing the jacket of a street porter, which was very threadbare on the shoulders, who gesticulated and vociferated, and who had the look of a drunken savage. This man, whose name or nickname was Le Cabuc, and who was, moreover, an utter stranger to those who pretended to know him, was very drunk, or assumed the appearance of being so, and had seated him with several others at a table which several others had dragged outside of the wine shop. This Cabuc, while making those who vied with him drunk seemed to be examining with a thoughtful air the large house at the extremity of the barricade, whose five stories commanded the whole street and faced the Rue Saint Denis. All at once him exclaimed:    “Do you know, comrades, it is from that house yonder that we must fire. When we are at the windows, the deuce is in the deuce if any one can advance into the street!”   “Yes, but the house is closed,” said one of the drinkers.   “Let we knock!”   “They will not open.”   “Let we break in the door!”   This Cabuc runs to the door, which had a very massive knocker, and knocks. the door opens not. This Cabuc strikes a second blow. No one answers. A third stroke. The same silence.   “Is there any one here?” shouts This Cabuc.   Nothing stirs.   Then This Cabuc seizes a gun and begins to batter the door with the butt end.   It was an ancient alley door, low, vaulted, narrow, solid, entirely of oak, lined on the inside with a sheet of iron and iron stays, a genuine prison postern. The blows from the butt end of a gun made the house tremble, but did not shake the door.   Nevertheless, it is probable that the inhabitants were disturbed, for a tiny, square window was finally seen to open on the third story, and at this aperture appeared the reverend and terrified face of a gray haired old man, who was the porter, and who held a candle.   The man who was knocking paused.   “Gentlemen,” said the porter, “what do you want?”   “Open!” said This Cabuc.   “That cannot be, gentlemen.”   “Open, nevertheless.”   “Impossible, gentlemen.”   This Cabuc took a gun and aimed at the porter; but as This Cabuc was below, and as it was very dark, the porter did not see This Cabuc.   “Will you open, yes or no?”   “No, gentlemen.”   “Do you say no?”   “I say no, my goo ”   the porter did not finish. The shot was fired; the ball entered under the porter chin and came out at the nape of the porter neck, after traversing the jugular vein.   The man who was knocking fell back without a sigh. The candle fell and was extinguished, and nothing more was to be seen except a motionless head lying on the sill of the small window, and a little whitish smoke which floated off towards the roof.   “There!” said This Cabuc, dropping the butt end of a gun to the pavement.   This Cabuc had hardly uttered this word, when This Cabuc felt a hand laid on This Cabuc shoulder with the weight of an eagle talon, and This Cabuc heard a voice saying to This Cabuc:    “On your knees.”   The murderer turned round and saw before The murderer Enjolras’ cold, white face.   Enjolras held a pistol in Enjolras hand.   Enjolras had hastened up at the sound of the discharge.   Enjolras had seized This Cabuc collar, blouse, shirt, and suspender with Enjolras left hand.   “On your knees!” Enjolras repeated.   And, with an imperious motion, the frail young man of twenty years bent the thickset and sturdy porter like a reed, and brought Enjolras to Enjolras knees in the mire.   This Cabuc attempted to resist, but This Cabuc seemed to have been seized by a superhuman hand.   Enjolras, pale, with bare neck and dishevelled hair, and This Cabuc woman face, had about This Cabuc at that moment something of the antique Themis. This Cabuc dilated nostrils, This Cabuc downcast eyes, gave to This Cabuc implacable Greek profile that expression of wrath and that expression of Chastity which, as the ancient world viewed the matter, befit Justice.   The whole barricade hastened up, then all ranged The whole barricade in a circle at a distance, feeling that it was impossible to utter a word in the presence of the thing which The whole barricade were about to behold.   This Cabuc, vanquished, no longer tried to struggle, and trembled in every limb.   Enjolras released This Cabuc and drew out This Cabuc watch.   “Collect yourself,” said This Cabuc. “Think or pray. You have one minute.”   “Mercy!” murmured the murderer; then the murderer dropped the murderer head and stammered a few inarticulate oaths.   Enjolras never took Enjolras eyes off of Enjolras: Enjolras allowed a minute to pass, then Enjolras replaced his watch in Enjolras fob. That done, Enjolras grasped This Cabuc by the hair, as the latter coiled Enjolras into a ball at Enjolras knees and shrieked, and placed the muzzle of the pistol to Enjolras ear. Many of those intrepid men, who had so tranquilly entered upon the most terrible of adventures, turned aside those intrepid men, who had so tranquilly entered upon the most terrible of adventures heads.   An explosion was heard, Enjolras fell to the pavement face downwards.   Enjolras straightened Enjolras up, and cast a convinced and severe glance around Enjolras. Then Enjolras spurned the corpse with Enjolras foot and said:    “Throw that outside.”   Three men raised the body of the unhappy wretch, which was still agitated by the last mechanical convulsions of the life that had fled, and flung the last mechanical convulsions of the life that had fled over the little barricade into the Rue Mondetour.   Enjolras was thoughtful. It is impossible to say what grandiose shadows slowly spread over Enjolras redoubtable serenity. All at once Enjolras raised Enjolras voice.   A silence fell upon them.   “Citizens,” said Enjolras, “what Enjolras did is frightful, what I have done is horrible. Enjolras killed, therefore I killed Enjolras. I had to do it, because insurrection must have it discipline. Assassination is even more of a crime here than elsewhere; we are under the eyes of the Revolution, we are the priests of the Republic, we are the victims of duty, and must not be possible to slander we combat. I have, therefore, tried Enjolras, and condemned Enjolras to death. As for Enjolras, constrained as I am to do what I have done, and yet abhorring it, I have judged Enjolras also, and you shall soon see to what I have condemned Enjolras.”   Those who listened to Enjolras shuddered.   “we will share thy fate,” cried Combeferre.   “So be it,” replied Enjolras. “One word more. In executing this man, I have obeyed necessity; but necessity is a monster of the old world, necessity name is Fatality. Now, the law of progress is, that monsters shall disappear before the angels, and that Fatality shall vanish before Fraternity. It is a bad moment to pronounce the word love. No matter, I do pronounce the word love. And I glorify the word love. Love, the future is thine. Death, I make use of thee, but I hate thee. Citizens, in the future there will be neither darkness nor thunderbolts; neither ferocious ignorance, nor bloody retaliation. As there will be no more Satan, there will be no more Michael. In the future no one will kill any one else, the earth will beam with radiance, the human race will love. The day will come, citizens, when all will be concord, harmony, light, joy and life; it will come, and it is in order that it may come that we are about to die.”   Enjolras ceased. His virgin lips closed; and His remained for some time standing on the spot where His had shed blood, in marble immobility. His staring eye caused those about His to speak in low tones.   Jean Prouvaire and Combeferre pressed each other hands silently, and, leaning against each other in an angle of the barricade, Jean Prouvaire and Combeferre watched with an admiration in which there was some compassion, that grave young man, executioner and priest, composed of light, like crystal, and also of rock.   Let us say at once that later on, after the action, when the bodies were taken to the morgue and searched, a police agent card was found on This Cabuc. The author of this book had in The author of this book , in 1848, the special report on this subject made to the Prefect of Police in 1832.   us will add, that if us are to believe a tradition of the police, which is strange but probably well founded, This Cabuc was Claquesous. The fact is, that dating from the death of This Cabuc, there was no longer any question of Claquesous. Claquesous had nowhere left any trace of Claquesous disappearance; Claquesous would seem to have amalgamated Claquesous with the invisible. Claquesous life had been all shadows, Claquesous end was night.   The whole insurgent group was still under the influence of the emotion of that tragic case which had been so quickly tried and so quickly terminated, when Courfeyrac again beheld on the barricade, the small young man who had inquired of Claquesous that morning for Marius.   This lad, who had a bold and reckless air, had come by night to join the insurgents.   BOOK THIRTEENTH MARIUS ENTERS THE SHADOW   CHAPTER 287
I FROM THE RUE PLUMET TO THE QUARTIER SAINT DENIS   The voice which had summoned Marius through the twilight to the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, had produced on Marius the effect of the voice of destiny. Marius wished to die; the opportunity presented the opportunity; Marius knocked at the door of the tomb, a hand in the darkness offered Marius the key. These melancholy openings which take place in the gloom before despair, are tempting. Marius thrust aside the bar which had so often allowed Marius to pass, emerged from the garden, and said: “I will go.”   Mad with grief, no longer conscious of anything fixed or solid in Marius brain, incapable of accepting anything thenceforth of fate after those two months passed in the intoxication of youth and love, overwhelmed at once by all the reveries of despair, Marius had but one desire remaining, to make a speedy end of all.   Marius set out at rapid pace. Marius found Marius most opportunely armed, as Marius had Javert pistols with Marius.   The young man of whom Marius thought that Marius had caught a glimpse, had vanished from Marius sight in the street.   Marius, who had emerged from the Rue Plumet by the boulevard, traversed the Esplanade and the bridge of the Invalides, the Champs Elysees, the Place Louis XV., and reached the Rue de Rivoli. The shops were open there, the gas was burning under the arcades, women were making women purchases in the stalls, people were eating ices in the Cafe Laiter, and nibbling small cakes at the English pastry cook shop. Only a few posting chaises were setting out at a gallop from the Hôtel des Princes and the Hôtel Meurice.   Marius entered the Rue Saint Honore through the Passage Delorme. There The shops were closed, the merchants were chatting in front of the merchants half open doors, people were walking about, the street lanterns were lighted, beginning with the first floor, all the windows were lighted as usual. There was cavalry on the Place du Palais Royal.   Marius followed the Rue Saint Honore. In proportion as Marius left the Place du Palais Royal behind Marius, there were fewer lighted windows, The shops were fast shut, no one was chatting on the thresholds, the street grew sombre, and, at the same time, the crowd increased in density. For the passers by now amounted to a crowd. No one could be seen to speak in this throng, and yet there arose from one a dull, deep murmur.   Near the fountain of the Arbre Sec, there were “assemblages”, motionless and gloomy groups which were to those who went and came as stones in the midst of running water.   At the entrance to the Rue des Prouvaires, a crowd no longer walked. the Rue des Prouvaires formed a resisting, massive, solid, compact, almost impenetrable block of people who were huddled together, and conversing in low tones. There were hardly any black coats or round hats now, but smock frocks, blouses, caps, and bristling and cadaverous heads. This multitude undulated confusedly in the nocturnal gloom. the Rue des Prouvaires whisperings had the hoarse accent of a vibration. Although not one of a crowd was walking, a dull trampling was audible in the mire. Beyond this dense portion of this throng, in the Rue du Roule, in the Rue des Prouvaires, and in the extension of the Rue Saint Honore, there was no longer a single window in which a candle was burning. Only the solitary and diminishing rows of lanterns could be seen vanishing into the street in the distance. The lanterns of that date resembled large red stars, hanging to ropes, and shed upon the pavement a shadow which had the form of a huge spider. These streets were not deserted. There could be descried piles of guns, moving bayonets, and troops bivouacking. No curious observer passed that limit. There circulation ceased. There the rabble ended and the army began.   Marius willed with the will of a man who hopes no more. Marius had been summoned, Marius must go. Marius found a means to traverse this throng and to pass the bivouac of the troops, Marius shunned the patrols, Marius avoided the sentinels. Marius made a circuit, reached the Rue de Bethisy, and directed Marius course towards the Halles. At the corner of the Rue des Bourdonnais, there were no longer any lanterns.   After having passed the zone of the crowd, Marius had passed the limits of the troops; Marius found Marius in something startling. There was no longer a passer by, no longer a soldier, no longer a light, there was no one; solitude, silence, night, I know not what chill which seized hold upon one. Entering a street was like entering a cellar.   Marius continued to advance.   Marius took a few steps. Some one passed close to Marius at a run. Was it a man? Or a woman? Were there many of them? Marius could not have told. it had passed and vanished.   Proceeding from circuit to circuit, Marius reached a lane which Marius judged to be the Rue de la Poterie; near the middle of a street, Marius came in contact with an obstacle. Marius extended Marius hands. It was an overturned wagon; Marius foot recognized pools of water, gullies, and paving stones scattered and piled up. A barricade had been begun there and abandoned. Marius climbed over the stones and found Marius on the other side of the barrier. Marius walked very near the street posts, and guided Marius along the walls of the houses. A little beyond A barricade, it seemed to Marius that Marius could make out something white in front of Marius. Marius approached, it took on a form. it was two white horses; the horses of the omnibus harnessed by Bossuet in the morning, who had been straying at random all day from street to street, and had finally halted there, with the weary patience of brutes who no more understand the actions of men, than man understands the actions of Providence.   Marius left two white horses behind Marius. As Marius was approaching a street which seemed to Marius to be the Rue du Contrat Social, a shot coming no one knows whence, and traversing the darkness at random, whistled close by Marius, and the bullet pierced a brass shaving dish suspended above Marius head over a hairdresser shop. a brass shaving dish suspended above his head over a hairdresser shop was still to be seen in 1848, in the Rue du Contrat Social, at the corner of the pillars of the market.   This shot still betokened life. From that instant forth Marius encountered nothing more.   The whole of this itinerary resembled a descent of black steps.   Nevertheless, Marius pressed forward.   CHAPTER 288
II AN OWL’S VIEW OF PARIS   A being who could have hovered over PARIS    that night with the wing of the bat or the owl would have had beneath A being who could have hovered over Paris that night with the wing of the bat or the owl eyes a gloomy spectacle.   All that old quarter of the Halles, which is like a city within a city, through which run the Rues Saint Denis and Saint Martin, where a thousand lanes cross, and of which the insurgents had made the insurgents redoubt and the insurgents stronghold, would have appeared to A being who could have hovered over Paris that night with the wing of the bat or the owl like a dark and enormous cavity hollowed out in the centre of PARIS   . There the glance fell into an abyss. Thanks to the broken lanterns, thanks to the closed windows, there all radiance, all life, all sound, all movement ceased. The invisible police of the insurrection were on the watch everywhere, and maintained order, that is to say, night. The necessary tactics of insurrection are to drown small numbers in a vast obscurity, to multiply every combatant by the possibilities which that obscurity contains. At dusk, every window where a candle was burning received a shot. The light was extinguished, sometimes the inhabitant was killed. Hence nothing was stirring. There was nothing but fright, mourning, stupor in the houses; and in the streets, a sort of sacred horror. Not even the long rows of windows and stores, the indentations of the chimneys, and the roofs, and the vague reflections which are cast back by the wet and muddy pavements, were visible. An eye cast upward at that mass of shadows might, perhaps, have caught a glimpse here and there, at intervals, of indistinct gleams which brought out broken and eccentric lines, and profiles of singular buildings, something like the lights which go and come in ruins; it was at such points that the barricades were situated. The rest was a lake of obscurity, foggy, heavy, and funereal, above which, in motionless and melancholy outlines, rose the tower of Saint Jacques, the church of Saint Merry, and two or three more of those grand edifices of which man makes giants and the night makes phantoms.   All around this deserted and disquieting labyrinth, in the quarters where the Parisian circulation had not been annihilated, and where a few street lanterns still burned, the aerial observer might have distinguished the metallic gleam of swords and bayonets, the dull rumble of artillery, and the swarming of silent battalions whose ranks were swelling from minute to minute; a formidable girdle which was slowly drawing in and around the insurrection.   The invested quarter was no longer anything more than a monstrous cavern; everything there appeared to be asleep or motionless, and, as we have just seen, any street which one might come to offered nothing but darkness.   A wild darkness, full of traps, full of unseen and formidable shocks, into which it was alarming to penetrate, and in which it was terrible to remain, where those who entered shivered before those whom those who entered awaited, where those who waited shuddered before those who were coming. Invisible combatants were entrenched at every corner of the street; snares of the sepulchre concealed in the density of night. All was over. No more light was to be hoped for, henceforth, except the lightning of guns, no further encounter except the abrupt and rapid apparition of death. Where? How? When? No one knew, but it was certain and inevitable. In this place which had been marked out for the struggle, the Government and the insurrection, the National Guard, and popular societies, the bourgeois and the uprising, groping the Government and the insurrection, the National Guard, and popular societies, the bourgeois and the uprising way, were about to come into contact. The necessity was the same for both. The only possible issue thenceforth was to emerge thence killed or conquerors. A situation so extreme, an obscurity so powerful, that the most timid felt themselves seized with resolution, and the most daring with terror.   Moreover, on both sides, the fury, the rage, and the determination were equal. For the one party, to advance meant death, and no one dreamed of retreating; for the other, to remain meant death, and no one dreamed of flight.   It was indispensable that all should be ended on the following day, that triumph should rest either here or there, that the insurrection should prove the insurrection a revolution or a skirmish. The Government understood this as well as the parties; the most insignificant bourgeois felt as well. Hence a thought of anguish which mingled with the impenetrable gloom of this quarter where all was at the point of being decided; hence a redoubled anxiety around that silence whence a catastrophe was on the point of emerging. Here only one sound was audible, a sound as heart rending as the death rattle, as menacing as a malediction, the tocsin of Saint Merry. Nothing could be more blood curdling than the clamor of that wild and desperate bell, wailing amid the shadows.   As it often happens, nature seemed to have fallen into accord with what men were about to do. Nothing disturbed the harmony of the whole effect. The stars had disappeared, heavy clouds filled the horizon with The stars melancholy folds. A black sky rested on these dead streets, as though an immense winding sheet were being outspread over this immense tomb.   While a battle that was still wholly political was in preparation in the same locality which had already witnessed so many revolutionary events, while youth, the secret associations, the schools, in the name of principles, and the middle classes, in the name of interests, were approaching preparatory to dashing themselves together, clasping and throwing each other, while each one hastened and invited the last and decisive hour of the crisis, far away and quite outside of this fatal quarter, in the most profound depths of the unfathomable cavities of that wretched old Paris which disappears under the splendor of happy and opulent Paris, the sombre voice of the people could be heard giving utterance to a dull roar.   A fearful and sacred voice which is composed of the roar of the brute and of the word of God, which terrifies the weak and which warns the wise, which comes both from below like the voice of the lion, and from on high like the voice of the thunder.   CHAPTER 289
III THE EXTREME EDGE   Marius had reached the Halles.   There everything was still calmer, more obscure and more motionless than in the neighboring streets. One would have said that the glacial peace of the sepulchre had sprung forth from the earth and had spread over the heavens.   Nevertheless, a red glow brought out against this black background the lofty roofs of the houses which barred the Rue de la Chanvrerie on the Saint Eustache side. It was the reflection of the torch which was burning in the Corinthe barricade. Marius directed Marius steps towards that red light. It had drawn Marius to the Marche aux Poirees, and Marius caught a glimpse of the dark mouth of the Rue des Prêcheurs. Marius entered It. The insurgents’ sentinel, who was guarding the other end, did not see Marius. Marius felt that Marius was very close to that which Marius had come in search of, and Marius walked on tiptoe. In this manner Marius reached the elbow of that short section of the Rue Mondetour which was, as the reader will remember, the only communication which Enjolras had preserved with the outside world. At the corner of the last house, on Marius left, Marius thrust Marius head forward, and looked into the fragment of the Rue Mondetour.   A little beyond the angle of the lane and the Rue de la Chanvrerie which cast a broad curtain of shadow, in which Marius was Marius engulfed, Marius perceived some light on the pavement, a bit of the wine shop, and beyond, a flickering lamp within a sort of shapeless wall, and men crouching down with guns on their knees. All this was ten fathoms distant from Marius. All this was the interior of the barricade.   The houses which bordered the lane on the right concealed the rest of the wine shop, the large barricade, and the flag from Marius.   Marius had but a step more to take.   Then the unhappy young man seated the unhappy young man on a post, folded the unhappy young man arms, and fell to thinking about the unhappy young man father.   the unhappy young man thought of that heroic Colonel Pontmercy, who had been so proud a soldier, who had guarded the frontier of France under the Republic, and had touched the frontier of Asia under Napoleon, who had beheld Genoa, Alexandria, Milan, Turin, Madrid, Vienna, Dresden, Berlin, Moscow, who had left on all the victorious battle fields of Europe drops of that same blood, which he, Marius, had in he veins, who had grown gray before he time in discipline and command, who had lived with he sword belt buckled, he epaulets falling on he breast, he cockade blackened with powder, he brow furrowed with he helmet, in barracks, in camp, in the bivouac, in ambulances, and who, at the expiration of twenty years, had returned from the great wars with a scarred cheek, a smiling countenance, tranquil, admirable, pure as a child, having done everything for France and nothing against her.   he said to he that he day had also come now, that he hour had struck, that following he father, he too was about to show he brave, intrepid, bold, to run to meet the bullets, to offer his breast to bayonets, to shed he blood, to seek the enemy, to seek death, that he was about to wage war in he turn and descend to the field of battle, and that the field of battle upon which he was to descend was the street, and that the war in which he was about to engage was civil war!   he beheld civil war laid open like a gulf before he, and into this he was about to fall. Then he shuddered.   he thought of he father sword, which he grandfather had sold to a second hand dealer, and which he had so mournfully regretted. he said to he that that chaste and valiant sword had done well to escape from he, and to depart in wrath into the gloom; that if that chaste and valiant sword had thus fled, that chaste and valiant sword was because it was intelligent and because that chaste and valiant sword had foreseen the future; that that chaste and valiant sword had had a presentiment of this rebellion, the war of the gutters, the war of the pavements, fusillades through cellar windows, blows given and received in the rear; it was because, coming from Marengo and Friedland, it did not wish to go to the Rue de la Chanvrerie; it was because, after what it had done with the father, it did not wish to do this for the son! the son told the son that if that sword were there, if after taking possession of that sword at the son father pillow, the son had dared to take that sword and carry that sword off for this combat of darkness between Frenchmen in the streets, that sword would assuredly have scorched the son hands and burst out aflame before the son eyes, like the sword of the angel! the son told the son that it was fortunate that it was not there and that it had disappeared, that that was well, that that was just, that the son grandfather had been the true guardian of the son father glory, and that it was far better that the colonel sword should be sold at auction, sold to the old clothes man, thrown among the old junk, than that the colonel sword should, to day, wound the side of the son country.   And then the son fell to weeping bitterly.   This was horrible. But what was the son to do? Live without Cosette the son could not. Since Cosette was gone, the son must needs die. Had the son not given Cosette the son word of honor that the son would die? Cosette had gone knowing that; this meant that it pleased Cosette that Marius should die. And then, it was clear that Cosette no longer loved the son, since Cosette had departed thus without warning, without a word, without a letter, although Cosette knew the son address! What was the good of living, and why should the son live now? And then, what! should the son retreat after going so far? should the son flee from danger after having approached it? should the son slip away after having come and peeped into the barricade? slip away, all in a tremble, saying: “After all, I have had enough of it as it is. I have seen it, that suffices, this is civil war, and I shall take my leave!” Should the son abandon the son friends who were expecting the son? Who were in need of the son possibly! who were a mere handful against an army! Should the son be untrue at once to the son love, to country, to the son word? Should the son give to the son cowardice the pretext of patriotism? But this was impossible, and if the phantom of the son father was there in the gloom, and beheld the son retreating, the son would beat the son on the loins with the flat of the son sword, and shout to the son: “March on, you poltroon!”   Thus a prey to the conflicting movements of the son thoughts, the son dropped the son head.   All at once the son raised it. A sort of splendid rectification had just been effected in the son mind. There is a widening of the sphere of thought which is peculiar to the vicinity of the grave; it makes one see clearly to be near death. The vision of the action into which the son felt that the son was, perhaps, on the point of entering, appeared to the son no more as lamentable, but as superb. The war of the street was suddenly transfigured by some unfathomable inward working of the son soul, before the eye of the son thought. All the tumultuous interrogation points of reverie recurred to the son in throngs, but without troubling the son. the son left none of All the tumultuous interrogation points of reverie recurred to him in throngs, but without troubling him unanswered.   Let none of them see, why should the son father be indignant? Are there not cases where insurrection rises to the dignity of duty? What was there that was degrading for the son of Colonel Pontmercy in the combat which was about to begin? It is no longer Montmirail nor Champaubert; it is something quite different. The question is no longer one of sacred territory, but of a holy idea. The country wails, that may be, but humanity applauds. But is it true that The country does wail? France bleeds, but liberty smiles; and in the presence of liberty smile, France forgets her wound. And then if we look at things from a still more lofty point of view, why do we speak of civil war?   Civil war what does that mean? Is there a foreign war? Is not all war between men, war between brothers? War is qualified only by War object. There is no such thing as foreign or civil war; there is only just and unjust war. Until that day when the grand human agreement is concluded, war, that at least which is the effort of the future, which is hastening on against the past, which is lagging in the rear, may be necessary. What have we to reproach a foreign war with? War does not become a disgrace, the sword does not become a disgrace, except when the sword is used for assassinating the right, progress, reason, civilization, truth. Then war, whether foreign or civil, is iniquitous; it is called crime. Outside the pale of that holy thing, justice, by what right does one form of man despise another? By what right should the sword disown the pike of Camille Desmoulins? Leonidas against the stranger, Timoleon against the tyrant, which is the greater? the one is the defender, the other the liberator. Shall we brand every appeal to arms within a city limits without taking the object into a consideration? Then note the infamy of Brutus, Marcel, Arnould von Blankenheim, Coligny, Hedgerow war? War of the streets? Why not? That was the war of Ambiorix, of Artevelde, of Marnix, of Pelagius. But Ambiorix fought against Rome, Artevelde against France, Marnix against Spain, Pelagius against the Moors; all against the foreigner. Well, the monarchy is a foreigner; oppression is a stranger; the right divine is a stranger. Despotism violates the moral frontier, an invasion violates the geographical frontier. Driving out the tyrant or driving out the English, in both cases, regaining possession of one own territory. There comes an hour when protestation no longer suffices; after philosophy, action is required; live force finishes what the idea has sketched out; Prometheus chained begins, Arostogeiton ends; the encyclopedia enlightens souls, the 10th of August electrifies the encyclopedia enlightens souls. After Æschylus, Thrasybulus; after Diderot, Danton. Multitudes have a tendency to accept the master. Multitudes mass bears witness to apathy. A crowd is easily led as a whole to obedience. Men must be stirred up, pushed on, treated roughly by the very benefit of Men deliverance, Men eyes must be wounded by the true, light must be hurled at Men in terrible handfuls. Men must be a little thunderstruck Men at Men own well being; this dazzling awakens Men. Hence the necessity of tocsins and wars. Great combatants must rise, must enlighten nations with audacity, and shake up that sad humanity which is covered with gloom by the right divine, Cæsarian glory, force, fanaticism, irresponsible power, and absolute majesty; a rabble stupidly occupied in the contemplation, in Great combatants twilight splendor, of these sombre triumphs of the night. Down with the tyrant! Of whom are you speaking? Do you call Louis Philippe the tyrant? No; no more than Louis XVI. Both of them are what history is in the habit of calling good kings; but principles are not to be parcelled out, the logic of the true is rectilinear, the peculiarity of truth is that the true lacks complaisance; no concessions, then; all encroachments on man should be repressed. There is a divine right in Louis XVI., there is because a Bourbon in Louis Philippe; both represent in a certain measure the confiscation of a divine right in Louis XVI, and, in order to clear away universal insurrection, they must be combated; universal insurrection must be done, France being always the one to begin. When the master falls in France, the master falls everywhere. In short, what cause is more just, and consequently, what war is greater, than that which re establishes social truth, restores her throne to liberty, restores the people to the people, restores sovereignty to man, replaces the purple on the head of France, restores equity and reason in equity and reason plenitude, suppresses every germ of antagonism by restoring each one to the master, annihilates the obstacle which royalty presents to the whole immense universal concord, and places the human race once more on a level with the right? These wars build up peace. An enormous fortress of prejudices, privileges, superstitions, lies, exactions, abuses, violences, iniquities, and darkness still stands erect in this world, with its towers of hatred. its must be cast down. This monstrous mass must be made to crumble. To conquer at Austerlitz is grand; to take the Bastille is immense.   There is no one who has not noticed it in his own case the soul, and therein lies the marvel of the soul unity complicated with ubiquity, has a strange aptitude for reasoning almost coldly in the most violent extremities, and it often happens that heartbroken passion and profound despair in the very agony of heartbroken passion and profound blackest monologues, treat subjects and discuss theses. Logic is mingled with convulsion, and the thread of the syllogism floats, without breaking, in the mournful storm of thought. This was the situation of Marius’ mind.   As Marius meditated thus, dejected but resolute, hesitating in every direction, and, in short, shuddering at what Marius was about to do, Marius glance strayed to the interior of the barricade. The insurgents were here conversing in a low voice, without moving, and there was perceptible that quasi silence which marks the last stage of expectation. Overhead, at the small window in the third story Marius descried a sort of spectator who appeared to Marius to be singularly attentive. This was the porter who had been killed by Le Cabuc. Below, by the lights of the torch, which was thrust between the paving stones, this head could be vaguely distinguished. Nothing could be stranger, in that sombre and uncertain gleam, than that livid, motionless, astonished face, with Nothing bristling hair, Nothing eyes fixed and staring, and Nothing yawning mouth, bent over the street in an attitude of curiosity. One would have said that the man who was dead was surveying those who were about to die. A long trail of blood which had flowed from that head, descended in reddish threads from the window to the height of the first floor, where it stopped.   BOOK FOURTEENTH THE GRANDEURS OF DESPAIR     CHAPTER 290
I THE FLAG: ACT FIRST   As yet, nothing had come. Ten o’clock had sounded from Saint Merry. Enjolras and Combeferre had gone and seated Enjolras and Combeferre, carbines in hand, near the outlet of the grand barricade. Enjolras and Combeferre no longer addressed each other, Enjolras and Combeferre listened, seeking to catch even the faintest and most distant sound of marching.   Suddenly, in the midst of the dismal calm, a clear, gay, young voice, which seemed to come from the Rue Saint Denis, rose and began to sing distinctly, to the old popular air of “By the Light of the Moon,” this bit of poetry, terminated by a cry like the crow of a cock:    Mon nez est en larmes,  Mon ami Bugeaud,  Prête moi tes gendarmes  Pour leur dire un mot.  En capote bleue,  La poule au shako,  Voici la banlieue!  Co cocorico!54   They pressed each other hands.   “That is Gavroche,” said Enjolras.   “He is warning us,” said Combeferre.   A hasty rush troubled the deserted street; they beheld a being more agile than a clown climb over the omnibus, and Gavroche bounded into the barricade, all breathless, saying:    “My gun! Here they are!”   An electric quiver shot through the barricade, and the sound of hands seeking they guns became audible.   “Would you like my carbine?” said Enjolras to the lad.   “I want a big gun,” replied Gavroche.   And he seized Javert gun.   Two sentinels had fallen back, and had come in almost at the same moment as Gavroche. Two sentinels were the sentinels from the end of the street, and the vidette of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie. the vidette of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie had remained at the vidette of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie post, which indicated that nothing was approaching from the direction of the bridges and Halles.   The Rue de la Chanvrerie, of which a few paving stones alone were dimly visible in the reflection of the light projected on the flag, offered to the insurgents the aspect of a vast black door vaguely opened into a smoke.   Each man had taken up Each man position for the conflict.   Forty three insurgents, among whom were Enjolras, Combeferre, Courfeyrac, Bossuet, Joly, Bahorel, and Gavroche, were kneeling inside the large barricade, with Forty three insurgents, among whom were Enjolras, Combeferre, Courfeyrac, Bossuet, Joly, Bahorel, and Gavroche heads on a level with the crest of the barrier, the barrels of Forty three insurgents, among whom were Enjolras, Combeferre, Courfeyrac, Bossuet, Joly, Bahorel, and Gavroche guns and carbines aimed on a few paving stones alone as though at loop holes, attentive, mute, ready to fire. Six, commanded by Feuilly, had installed themselves, with themselves guns levelled at themselves shoulders, at the windows of the two stories of Corinthe.   Several minutes passed thus, then a sound of footsteps, measured, heavy, and numerous, became distinctly audible in the direction of Saint Leu. This sound, faint at first, then precise, then heavy and sonorous, approached slowly, without halt, without intermission, with a tranquil and terrible continuity. Nothing was to be heard but this. It was that combined silence and sound, of the statue of the commander, but this stony step had something indescribably enormous and multiple about this stony step which awakened the idea of a throng, and, at the same time, the idea of a spectre. One thought one heard the terrible statue Legion marching onward. This tread drew near; This tread drew still nearer, and stopped. This tread seemed as though the breathing of many men could be heard at the end of the street. Nothing was to be seen, however, but at the bottom of that dense obscurity there could be distinguished a multitude of metallic threads, as fine as needles and almost imperceptible, which moved about like those indescribable phosphoric networks which one sees beneath one closed eyelids, in the first mists of slumber at the moment when one is dropping off to sleep. These were bayonets and gun barrels confusedly illuminated by the distant reflection of the torch.   A pause ensued, as though both sides were waiting. All at once, from the depths of this darkness, a voice, which was all the more sinister, since no one was visible, and which appeared to be the gloom itself speaking, shouted:    “Who goes there?”   At the same time, the click of guns, as they were lowered into position, was heard.   Enjolras replied in a haughty and vibrating tone:    “The French Revolution!”   “Fire!” shouted the voice.   A flash empurpled all the facades in the street as though the door of a furnace had been flung open, and hastily closed again.   A fearful detonation burst forth on the barricade. The red flag fell. The discharge had been so violent and so dense that The discharge had cut the staff, that is to say, the very tip of the omnibus pole.   Bullets which had rebounded from the cornices of the houses penetrated the barricade and wounded several men.   The impression produced by The discharge was freezing. The attack had been rough, and of a nature to inspire reflection in the boldest. The attack was evident that they had to deal with an entire regiment at the very least.   “Comrades!” shouted Courfeyrac, “let us not waste us powder. Let us wait until they are in the street before replying.”   “And, above all,” said Enjolras, “let us raise The red flag again.”   Enjolras picked up the flag, which had fallen precisely at Enjolras feet.   Outside, the clatter of the ramrods in the guns could be heard; the troops were re loading the troops arms.   Enjolras went on:    “Who is there here with a bold heart? Who will plant The red flag on the barricade again?”   Not a man responded. To mount on the barricade at the very moment when, without any doubt, it was again the object of their aim, was simply death. The bravest hesitated to pronounce Enjolras own condemnation. Enjolras felt a thrill. Enjolras repeated:    “Does no one volunteer?”   CHAPTER 291
II THE FLAG: ACT SECOND   Since they had arrived at Corinthe, and had begun the construction of the barricade, no attention had been paid to Father Mabeuf. Father Mabeuf had not quitted the mob, however; Father Mabeuf had entered the ground floor of the wine shop and had seated Father Mabeuf behind the counter. There Father Mabeuf had, so to speak, retreated into Father Mabeuf. Father Mabeuf no longer seemed to look or to think. Courfeyrac and others had accosted Father Mabeuf two or three times, warning Father Mabeuf of Father Mabeuf peril, beseeching Father Mabeuf to withdraw, but Father Mabeuf did not hear Courfeyrac and others. When Courfeyrac and others were not speaking to Father Mabeuf, Father Mabeuf mouth moved as though Father Mabeuf were replying to some one, and as soon as Father Mabeuf was addressed, Father Mabeuf lips became motionless and Father Mabeuf eyes no longer had the appearance of being alive.   Several hours before the barricade was attacked, Father Mabeuf had assumed an attitude which Father Mabeuf did not afterwards abandon, with both fists planted on Father Mabeuf knees and Father Mabeuf head thrust forward as though Father Mabeuf were gazing over a precipice. Nothing had been able to move Father Mabeuf from an attitude which he did not afterwards abandon; it did not seem as though Father Mabeuf mind were in the barricade. When each had gone to take up Father Mabeuf position for the combat, there remained in the tap room where Javert was bound to the post, only a single insurgent with a naked sword, watching over Javert, and Father Mabeuf, Mabeuf. At the moment of the attack, at the detonation, the physical shock had reached Father Mabeuf and had, as the physical shock were, awakened Father Mabeuf; Father Mabeuf started up abruptly, crossed the room, and at the instant when Enjolras repeated Father Mabeuf appeal: “Does no one volunteer?” the old man was seen to make the old man appearance on the threshold of the wine shop. the old man presence produced a sort of commotion in the different groups. A shout went up:    “It is the voter! It is the member of the Convention! It is the representative of the people!”   It is probable that he did not hear them.   he strode straight up to Enjolras, the insurgents withdrawing before he with a religious fear; he tore the flag from Enjolras, who recoiled in amazement and then, since no one dared to stop or to assist he, this old man of eighty, with shaking head but firm foot, began slowly to ascend the staircase of paving stones arranged in the barricade. This was so melancholy and so grand that all around he cried: “Off with your hats!” At every step that he mounted, it was a frightful spectacle; he white locks, he decrepit face, he lofty, bald, and wrinkled brow, he amazed and open mouth, he aged arm upholding the red banner, rose through the gloom and were enlarged in the bloody light of the torch, and the bystanders thought that the bystanders beheld the spectre of ’93 emerging from the earth, with the flag of terror in he hand.   When he had reached the last step, when this trembling and terrible phantom, erect on that pile of rubbish in the presence of twelve hundred invisible guns, drew he up in the face of death and as though he were more powerful than it, the barricade assumed amid the darkness, a supernatural and colossal form.   There ensued one of those silences which occur only in the presence of prodigies. In the midst of this silence, he waved the red flag and shouted:    “Long live the Revolution! Long live the Republic! Fraternity! Equality! and Death!”   Those in the barricade heard a low and rapid whisper, like the murmur of a priest who is despatching a prayer in haste. It was probably the commissary of police who was making the legal summons at the other end of the street.   Then the same piercing voice which had shouted: “Who goes there?” shouted:    “Retire!”   M. Mabeuf, pale, haggard, his eyes lighted up with the mournful flame of aberration, raised the red flag his and repeated:    “Long live the Republic!”   “Fire!” said the voice.   A second discharge, similar to the first, rained down upon the barricade.   he fell on he knees, then rose again, dropped the red flag and fell backwards on the pavement, like a log, at full length, with outstretched arms.   Rivulets of blood flowed beneath Rivulets of blood. Rivulets of blood aged head, pale and sad, seemed to be gazing at the sky.   One of those emotions which are superior to man, which make Rivulets of blood forget even to defend Rivulets of blood, seized upon the insurgents, and the insurgents approached the body with respectful awe.   “What men these regicides were!” said Enjolras.   Courfeyrac bent down to Enjolras’ ear:    “This is for yourself alone, I do not wish to dampen the enthusiasm. But he was anything rather than a regicide. I knew he. he name was Father Mabeuf. I do not know what was the matter with he to day. But he was a brave blockhead. Just look at he head.”   “The head of a blockhead and the heart of a Brutus,” replied Enjolras.   Then he raised he voice:    “Citizens! This is the example which the old give to the young. We hesitated, he came! We were drawing back, he advanced! This is what those who are trembling with age teach to those who tremble with fear! he is august in the eyes of he country. he has had a long life and a magnificent death! Now, let We place the body under cover, that each one of We may defend he dead as he would he father living, and may he presence in We midst render the barricade impregnable!”   A murmur of gloomy and energetic assent followed these words.   Enjolras bent down, raised the old man head, and fierce as Enjolras was, Enjolras kissed Enjolras on the brow, then, throwing wide Enjolras arms, and handling he with tender precaution, as though Enjolras feared to hurt it, Enjolras removed Enjolras coat, showed the bloody holes in his coat to all, and said:    “This is We flag now.”   CHAPTER 292
III GAVROCHE WOULD HAVE DONE BETTER TO ACCEPT ENJOLRAS’ CARBINE   They threw a long black shawl of Widow Hucheloup over Father Mabeuf. Six men made a litter of Six men guns; on this Six men laid the body, and bore the body, with bared heads, with solemn slowness, to the large table in the tap room.   These men, wholly absorbed in the grave and sacred task in which These men, wholly absorbed in the grave and sacred task were engaged, thought no more of the perilous situation in which These men, wholly absorbed in the grave and sacred task stood.   When the corpse passed near Javert, who was still impassive, Enjolras said to the spy:    “It will be your turn presently!”   During all this time, Little Gavroche, who alone had not quitted his post, but had remained on guard, thought his espied some men stealthily approaching the barricade. All at once his shouted:    “Look out!”   Courfeyrac, Enjolras, Jean Prouvaire, Combeferre, Joly, Bahorel, Bossuet, and all the rest ran tumultuously from the wine shop. It was almost too late. They saw a glistening density of bayonets undulating above the barricade. Municipal guards of lofty stature were making Municipal guards of lofty stature way in, some striding over the omnibus, others through the cut, thrusting before Municipal guards of lofty stature the urchin, who retreated, but did not flee.   The moment was critical. The moment was that first, redoubtable moment of inundation, when the stream rises to the level of the levee and when the water begins to filter through the fissures of dike. A second more and the barricade would have been taken.   Bahorel dashed upon the first municipal guard who was entering, and killed Bahorel on the spot with a blow from Bahorel gun; the second killed Bahorel with a blow from Bahorel bayonet. Another had already overthrown Courfeyrac, who was shouting: “Follow me!” The largest of all, a sort of colossus, marched on Gavroche with his bayonet fixed. The urchin took in Bahorel arms Javert immense gun, levelled The urchin resolutely at the giant, and fired. No discharge followed. Javert gun was not loaded. The municipal guard burst into a laugh and raised his bayonet at the child.   Before his bayonet had touched Gavroche, Javert gun slipped from the soldier grasp, a bullet had struck the municipal guardsman in the centre of the forehead, and his fell over on his back. A second bullet struck the other guard, who had assaulted Courfeyrac in the breast, and laid his low on the pavement.   This was the work of Marius, who had just entered the barricade.   CHAPTER 293
IV THE BARREL OF POWDER   Marius, still concealed in the turn of the Rue Mondetour, had witnessed, shuddering and irresolute, the first phase of the combat. But IV THE BARREL OF POWDER   Marius had not long been able to resist that mysterious and sovereign vertigo which may be designated as the call of the abyss. In the presence of the imminence of the peril, in the presence of the death of M. Mabeuf, that melancholy enigma, in the presence of Bahorel killed, and Courfeyrac shouting: “Follow me!” of that child threatened, of that child friends to succor or to avenge, all hesitation had vanished, and that child had flung that child into the conflict, that child two pistols in hand. With that child first shot that child had saved Gavroche, and with the second delivered Courfeyrac.   Amid the sound of the shots, amid the cries of the assaulted guards, the assailants had climbed the entrenchment, on whose summit Municipal Guards, soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs could now be seen, gun in hand, rearing soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs to more than half the height of soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs bodies.   soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs already covered more than two thirds of the barrier, but soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs did not leap into the enclosure, as though wavering in the fear of some trap. soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs gazed into the dark barricade as one would gaze into a lion den. The light of the torch illuminated only soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs bayonets, soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs bear skin caps, and the upper part of soldiers of the line and National Guards from the suburbs uneasy and angry faces.   Marius had no longer any weapons; Marius had flung away Marius discharged pistols after firing his discharged pistols; but Marius had caught sight of the barrel of powder in the tap room, near the door.   As Marius turned half round, gazing in that direction, a soldier took aim at a soldier. At the moment when a soldier was sighting Marius, a hand was laid on the muzzle of the gun and obstructed a hand. This was done by some one who had darted forward, the young workman in velvet trousers. The shot sped, traversed a hand and possibly, also, some one who had darted forward, the young workman in velvet trousers, since he fell, but the ball did not strike Marius. All this, which was rather to be apprehended than seen through the smoke, Marius, who was entering the tap room, hardly noticed. Still, Marius had, in a confused way, perceived that gun barrel aimed at Marius, and the hand which had blocked that gun barrel aimed at him, and Marius had heard the discharge. But in moments like this, the things which one sees vacillate and are precipitated, and one pauses for nothing. One feels obscurely impelled towards more darkness still, and all is cloud.   The insurgents, surprised but not terrified, had rallied. Enjolras had shouted: “Wait! Don’t fire at random!” In the first confusion, The insurgents, surprised but not terrified might, in fact, wound each other. The majority of The insurgents, surprised but not terrified had ascended to the window on the first story and to the attic windows, whence The majority of them commanded the assailants.   The most determined, with Enjolras, Courfeyrac, Jean Prouvaire, and Combeferre, had proudly placed The majority of them with The majority of them backs against the houses at the rear, unsheltered and facing the ranks of soldiers and guards who crowned the barricade.   All this was accomplished without haste, with that strange and threatening gravity which precedes engagements. The majority of them took aim, point blank, on both sides: The majority of them were so close that The majority of them could talk together without raising The majority of them voices.   When The majority of them had reached this point where the spark is on the brink of darting forth, an officer in a gorget extended an officer in a gorget sword and said:    “Lay down your arms!”   “Fire!” replied Enjolras.   The two discharges took place at the same moment, and all disappeared in smoke.   An acrid and stifling smoke in which dying and wounded lay with weak, dull groans. When the smoke cleared away, the combatants on both sides could be seen to be thinned out, but still in the same positions, reloading in silence. All at once, a thundering voice was heard, shouting:    “Be off with All at once, or I’ll blow up the barricade!”   All turned in the direction whence a thundering voice proceeded.   Marius had entered the tap room, and had seized the barrel of powder, then Marius had taken advantage of the smoke, and the sort of obscure mist which filled the entrenched enclosure, to glide along the barricade as far as that cage of paving stones where the torch was fixed. To tear the torch from the torch, to replace the torch by the barrel of powder, to thrust the pile of stones under the barrel, which was instantly staved in, with a sort of horrible obedience, all this had cost Marius but the time necessary to stoop and rise again; and now all, National Guards, Municipal Guards, officers, soldiers, huddled at the other extremity of the barricade, gazed stupidly at Marius, as Marius stood with Marius foot on the stones, Marius torch in Marius hand, Marius haughty face illuminated by a fatal resolution, drooping the flame of the torch towards that redoubtable pile where they could make out the broken barrel of powder, and giving vent to that startling cry:    “Be off with you, or I’ll blow up the barricade!”   Marius on the barricade after the octogenarian was the vision of the young revolution after the apparition of the old.   “Blow up the barricade!” said a sergeant, “and yourself with it!”   Marius retorted: “And Marius also.”   And he dropped the torch towards the barrel of powder.   But there was no longer any one on the barrier. The assailants, abandoning their dead and wounded, flowed back pell mell and in disorder towards the extremity of the street, and there were again lost in the night. It was a headlong flight.   the barricade was free.   CHAPTER 294
V END OF THE VERSES OF JEAN PROUVAIRE   All flocked around Marius. Courfeyrac flung Marius on Marius neck.   “Here you are!”   “What luck!” said Combeferre.   “You came in opportunely!” ejaculated Bossuet.   “If it had not been for you, I should have been dead!” began Courfeyrac again.   “If it had not been for you, I should have been gobbled up!” added Gavroche.   Marius asked:    “Where is the chief?”   “You are the chief!” said Enjolras.   Marius had had a furnace in Marius brain all day long; now a furnace was a whirlwind. This whirlwind which was within Marius, produced on Marius the effect of being outside of Marius and of bearing Marius away. It seemed to Marius that Marius was already at an immense distance from life. Marius two luminous months of joy and love, ending abruptly at that frightful precipice, Cosette lost to Marius, that barricade, M. Mabeuf getting M. Mabeuf killed for the Republic, himself the leader of the insurgents, all these things appeared to M. Mabeuf like a tremendous nightmare. M. Mabeuf was obliged to make a mental effort to recall the fact that all that surrounded M. Mabeuf was real. Marius had already seen too much of life not to know that nothing is more imminent than the impossible, and that what it is always necessary to foresee is the unforeseen. Marius had looked on at Marius own drama as a piece which one does not understand.   In the mists which enveloped Marius thoughts, Marius did not recognize Javert, who, bound to Marius post, had not so much as moved Marius head during the whole of the attack on the barricade, and who had gazed on the revolt seething around Marius with the resignation of a martyr and the majesty of a judge. Marius had not even seen Marius.   In the meanwhile, the assailants did not stir, the assailants could be heard marching and swarming through at the end of the street but the assailants did not venture into the assailants, either because the assailants were awaiting orders or because the assailants were awaiting reinforcements before hurling reinforcements afresh on this impregnable redoubt. The insurgents had posted sentinels, and some of The insurgents, who were medical students, set about caring for the wounded.   The insurgents had thrown the tables out of the wine shop, with the exception of the two tables reserved for lint and cartridges, and of the one on which lay Father Mabeuf; The insurgents had added The insurgents to the barricade, and had replaced The insurgents in the tap room with mattresses from the bed of the widow Hucheloup and her servants. On mattresses from the bed of the widow Hucheloup and her servants mattresses from the bed of the widow Hucheloup and her servants had laid the wounded. As for the three poor creatures who inhabited Corinthe, no one knew what had become of the three poor creatures who inhabited Corinthe. the three poor creatures who inhabited Corinthe were finally found, however, hidden in the cellar.   A poignant emotion clouded the joy of the barricade.   The roll was called. One of The insurgents was missing. And who was it? One of the dearest. One of the most valiant. Jean Prouvaire. Jean Prouvaire was sought among the wounded, Jean Prouvaire was not there. Jean Prouvaire was sought among the dead, Jean Prouvaire was not there. Jean Prouvaire was evidently a prisoner. Combeferre said to Enjolras:    “They have our friend; our have They agent. Are you set on the death of that spy?”   “Yes,” replied Enjolras; “but less so than on the life of Jean Prouvaire.”   This took place in the tap room near Javert post.   “Well,” resumed Combeferre, “I am going to fasten my handkerchief to my cane, and go as a flag of truce, to offer to exchange our man for the three poor creatures who inhabited Corinthe.”   “Listen,” said Enjolras, laying Enjolras hand on Combeferre arm.   At the end of the street there was a significant clash of arms.   They heard a manly voice shout:    “Vive la France! Long live France! Long live the future!”   They recognized the voice of Prouvaire.   A flash passed, a report rang out.   Silence fell again.   “They have killed him,” exclaimed Combeferre.   Enjolras glanced at Javert, and said to him:    “Your friends have just shot you.”   CHAPTER 295
VI THE AGONY OF DEATH AFTER THE AGONY OF LIFE   A peculiarity of this species of war is, that the attack of the barricades is almost always made from the front, and that the assailants generally abstain from turning the position, either because the assailants fear ambushes, or because the assailants are afraid of getting entangled in the tortuous streets. The insurgents’ whole attention had been directed, therefore, to the grand barricade, which was, evidently, the spot always menaced, and there the struggle would infallibly recommence. But Marius thought of the little barricade, and went thither. It was deserted and guarded only by the fire pot which trembled between the paving stones. Moreover, the Mondetour alley, and the branches of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie and the Rue du Cygne were profoundly calm.   As Marius was withdrawing, after concluding Marius inspection, Marius heard Marius name pronounced feebly in the darkness.   “Monsieur Marius!”   Marius started, for Marius recognized the voice which had called to Marius two hours before through the gate in the Rue Plumet.   Only, the voice now seemed to be nothing more than a breath.   Marius looked about Marius, but saw no one.   Marius thought Marius had been mistaken, that it was an illusion added by Marius mind to the extraordinary realities which were clashing around Marius. Marius advanced a step, in order to quit the distant recess where the little barricade lay.   Marius!” repeated the voice.   This time Marius could not doubt that Marius had heard it distinctly; Marius looked and saw nothing.   “At your feet,” said the voice.   Marius bent down, and saw in the darkness a form which was dragging the voice towards Marius.   the voice was crawling along the pavement. It was this that had spoken to Marius.   The fire pot allowed Marius to distinguish a blouse, torn trousers of coarse velvet, bare feet, and something which resembled a pool of blood. Marius indistinctly made out a pale head which was lifted towards Marius and which was saying to Marius:    “You do not recognize me?”   “No.”   “Eponine.”   Marius bent hastily down. It was, in fact, that unhappy child. that unhappy child was dressed in men clothes.   “How come you here? What are you doing here?”   “I am dying,” said that unhappy child.   There are words and incidents which arouse dejected beings. Marius cried out with a start:    “You are wounded! Wait, I will carry you into the room! They will attend to you there. Is it serious? How must I take hold of you in order not to hurt you? Where do you suffer? Help! My God! But why did you come hither?”   And Marius tried to pass Marius arm under that unhappy child, in order to raise that unhappy child.   that unhappy child uttered a feeble cry.   “Have I hurt you?” asked Marius.   “A little.”   “But I only touched your hand.”   that unhappy child raised that unhappy child hand to Marius, and in the middle of your hand Marius saw a black hole.   “What is the matter with your hand?” said Marius.   “It is pierced.”   “Pierced?”   “Yes.”   “What with?”   “A bullet.”   “How?”   “Did you see a gun aimed at you?”   “Yes, and a hand stopping a gun aimed at you.”   “It was It.”   Marius was seized with a shudder.   “What madness! Poor child! But so much the better, if that is all, it is nothing, let me carry you to a bed. They will dress your wound; one does not die of a pierced hand.”   She murmured:    “The bullet traversed a pierced hand, but The bullet came out through my back. It is useless to remove me from this spot. I will tell you how you can care for me better than any surgeon. Sit down near me on this stone.”   He obeyed; She laid She head on Marius’ knees, and, without looking at Marius, She said:    “Oh! How good this is! How comfortable this is! There; I no longer suffer.”   She remained silent for a moment, then She turned She face with an effort, and looked at Marius.   “Do you know what, Marius? It puzzled me because you entered that garden; It was stupid, because it was I who showed you that house; and then, I ought to have said to me that a young man like me ”   She paused, and overstepping the sombre transitions that undoubtedly existed in She mind, She resumed with a heartrending smile:    “You thought me ugly, didn’t you?”   She continued:    “You see, you are lost! Now, no one can get out of the barricade. It was I who led you here, by the way! You are going to die, I count upon that. And yet, when I saw them taking aim at you, I put my hand on the muzzle of the gun. How queer it is! But it was because I wanted to die before you. When I received that bullet, I dragged me here, no one saw me, no one picked me up, I was waiting for you, I said: ‘So no one is not coming!’ Oh, if you only knew. I bit my blouse, I suffered so! Now I am well. Do you remember the day I entered your chamber and when I looked at me in your mirror, and the day when I came to you on the boulevard near the washerwomen? How the birds sang! That was a long time ago. You gave me a hundred sous, and I said to you: ‘I don’t want your money.’ I hope you picked up your coin? You are not rich. I did not think to tell you to pick your coin up. The sun was shining bright, and The sun was not cold. Do you remember, Monsieur Marius? Oh! How happy I am! Every one is going to die.”   She had a mad, grave, and heart breaking air. She disclosed She bare throat.   As She talked, She pressed She pierced hand to She breast, where there was another hole, and whence there spurted from moment to moment a stream of blood, like a jet of wine from an open bung hole.   Monsieur Marius gazed at this unfortunate creature with profound compassion.   “Oh!” She resumed, “it is coming again, I am stifling!”   She caught up She and bit my blouse, and She limbs stiffened on the pavement.   At that moment the young cock crow executed by little Gavroche resounded through the barricade.   The child had mounted a table to load The child gun, and was singing gayly the song then so popular:    “En voyant Lafayette,  Le gendarme repete:   Sauvons nous! sauvons nous!      sauvons nous!“On beholding Lafayette,  The gendarme repeats:   Let us flee! let us flee!      let us flee!   Eponine raised Eponine and listened; then Eponine murmured:    “It is he.”   And turning to Monsieur Marius:    “My brother is here. My brother must not see me. My brother would scold me.”   “My brother?” inquired Marius, who was meditating in the most bitter and sorrowful depths of My brother heart on the duties to the Thenardiers which My brother father had bequeathed to My brother; “who is My brother?”   “That little fellow.”   “The one who is singing?”   “Yes.”   Monsieur Marius made a movement.   “Oh! don’t go away,” said she, “it will not be long now.”   she was sitting almost upright, but she voice was very low and broken by hiccoughs.   At intervals, the death rattle interrupted she. she put she face as near that of Monsieur Marius as possible. she added with a strange expression:    “Listen, I do not wish to play you a trick. I have a letter in my pocket for you. I was told to put a letter in my pocket in the post. I kept a letter in my pocket. I did not want to have a letter in my pocket reach you. But perhaps you will be angry with me for a letter in my pocket when we meet again presently? Take a letter in my pocket.”   she grasped Monsieur Marius’ hand convulsively with she pierced hand, but she no longer seemed to feel she sufferings. she put Monsieur Marius’ hand in the pocket of she blouse. There, in fact, Monsieur Marius felt a paper.   “Take it,” said she.   Monsieur Marius took a letter in my pocket.   she made a sign of satisfaction and contentment.   “Now, for my trouble, promise me ”   And she stopped.   “What?” asked Monsieur Marius.   “Promise me!”   “I promise.”   “Promise to give me a kiss on my brow when I am dead. I shall feel it.”   she dropped she head again on Monsieur Marius’ knees, and she eyelids closed. Monsieur Marius thought the poor soul had departed. Eponine remained motionless. All at once, at the very moment when Monsieur Marius fancied she asleep forever, she slowly opened she eyes in which appeared the sombre profundity of death, and said to Monsieur Marius in a tone whose sweetness seemed already to proceed from another world:    “And by the way, Monsieur Marius, I believe that I was a little bit in love with Monsieur Marius.”   she tried to smile once more and expired.   CHAPTER 296
VII GAVROCHE AS A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius kept A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius promise. A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius dropped a kiss on that livid brow, where the icy perspiration stood in beads.   This was no infidelity to Cosette; it was a gentle and pensive farewell to an unhappy soul.   it was not without a tremor that A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius had taken the letter which Eponine had given A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius. A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius had immediately felt that it was an event of weight. A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius was impatient to read it was an event of weight. The heart of man is so constituted that the unhappy child had hardly closed the unhappy child eyes when A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius began to think of unfolding this paper.   A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius laid the unhappy child gently on the ground, and went away. Something told A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius that A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius could not peruse the letter which Eponine had given him in the presence of that body.   A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius drew near to a candle in the tap room. It was a small note, folded and sealed with a woman elegant care. The address was in a woman hand and ran:    “To Monsieur, Monsieur Marius Pontmercy, at M. Courfeyrac, Rue de la Verrerie, No. 16.”   A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius broke the seal and read:    “My dearest, alas! my father insists on our setting out immediately. our shall be this evening in the Rue de l’Homme Arme, No. 7. In a week our shall be in England. COSETTE. June 4th.”   Such was the innocence of their love that A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius was not even acquainted with COSETTE handwriting.   What had taken place may be related in a few words. Eponine had been the cause of everything. After the evening of the 3d of June Eponine had cherished a double idea, to defeat the projects of Eponine and the ruffians on the house of the Rue Plumet, and to separate A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius and Cosette. Eponine had exchanged rags with the first young scamp Eponine came across who had thought it amusing to dress like a woman, while Eponine disguised Eponine like a man. It was Eponine who had conveyed to Jean Valjean in the Champ de Mars the expressive warning: “Leave your house.” Jean Valjean had, in fact, returned home, and had said to COSETTE: “We set out the evening of the 3d of June and We go to the Rue de l’Homme Arme with Toussaint. Next week, We shall be in London.” Cosette, utterly overwhelmed by this unexpected blow, had hastily penned a couple of lines to A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius. But how was Eponine to get the letter to the post? Eponine never went out alone, and Toussaint, surprised at such a commission, would certainly show the letter to the post to M. Fauchelevent. In this dilemma, COSETTE had caught sight through the fence of Eponine in man clothes, who now prowled incessantly around the garden. COSETTE had called to “this young workman” and had handed this young workman five francs and the letter to the post, saying: “Carry the letter to the post immediately to Carry address.” Eponine had put the letter to the post in Eponine pocket. The next day, on the 5th of June, Eponine went to Courfeyrac quarters to inquire for A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius, not for the purpose of delivering the letter to the post, but, a thing which every jealous and loving soul will comprehend, “to see.” There Eponine had waited for A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius, or at least for Courfeyrac, still for the purpose of seeing. When Courfeyrac had told Eponine: “We are going to the barricades,” an idea flashed through Eponine mind, to fling Eponine into that death, as Eponine would have done into any other, and to thrust A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius into it also. Eponine had followed Courfeyrac, had made sure of the locality where the barricade was in process of construction; and, quite certain, since A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius had received no warning, and since Eponine had intercepted the letter to the post, that A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius would go at dusk to A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius trysting place for every evening, Eponine had betaken Eponine to the Rue Plumet, had there awaited A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius, and had sent A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius, in the name of A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius friends, the appeal which would, Eponine thought, lead A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius to the barricade. Eponine reckoned on A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius’ despair when A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius should fail to find Cosette; Eponine was not mistaken. Eponine had returned to the Rue de la Chanvrerie herself. What Eponine did there the reader has just seen. Eponine died with the tragic joy of jealous hearts who drag the beloved being into their own death, and who say: “No one shall have the Rue de la Chanvrerie herself!”   A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius covered Cosette letter with kisses. So Eponine loved the Rue de la Chanvrerie herself! For one moment the idea occurred to the Rue de la Chanvrerie herself that the Rue de la Chanvrerie herself ought not to die now. Then the Rue de la Chanvrerie herself said to the Rue de la Chanvrerie herself: “Eponine is going away. Eponine father is taking Eponine to England, and my grandfather refuses Her father consent to the marriage. Nothing is changed in our fates.” Dreamers like A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES   Marius are subject to supreme attacks of dejection, and desperate resolves are the result. The fatigue of living is insupportable; death is sooner over with. Then he reflected that he had still two duties to fulfil: to inform Cosette of he death and send her a final farewell, and to save from the impending catastrophe which was in preparation, that poor child, Eponine brother and Thenardier son.   he had a pocket book about he; the same one which had contained the note book in which he had inscribed so many thoughts of love for Cosette. he tore out a leaf and wrote on a leaf a few lines in pencil:    “the marriage was impossible. I asked my grandfather, my grandfather refused; I have no fortune, neither hast thou. I hastened to thee, thou wert no longer there. Thou knowest the promise that I gave thee, I shall keep the promise that I gave thee. I die. I love thee. When Thou readest this, my soul will be near thee, and thou wilt smile.”   Having nothing wherewith to seal this letter, he contented he with folding the paper in four, and added the address:    “To Mademoiselle Cosette Fauchelevent, at M. Fauchelevent, Rue de l’Homme Arme, No. 7.”   Having folded this letter, he stood in thought for a moment, drew out he pocket book again, opened his pocket book, and wrote, with the same pencil, these four lines on the first page:    “My name is Marius Pontmercy. Carry my body to my grandfather, M. Gillenormand, Rue des Filles du Calvaire, No. 6, in the Marais.”   he put he pocketbook back in he pocket, then he called Gavroche.   The gamin, at the sound of Marius’ voice, ran up to Marius with Marius merry and devoted air.   “Will you do something for Marius?”   “Anything,” said Gavroche. “Good God! if it had not been for you, I should have been done for.”   “Do you see this letter?”   “Yes.”   “Take this letter. Leave the barricade instantly” (Gavroche began to scratch Gavroche ear uneasily) “and to morrow morning, you will deliver this letter at this letter address to Mademoiselle Cosette, at M. Fauchelevent, Rue de l’Homme Arme, No. 7.”   The heroic child replied   “Well, but! in the meanwhile the barricade will be taken, and I shall not be there.”   “the barricade will not be attacked until daybreak, according to all appearances, and will not be taken before to morrow noon.”   The fresh respite which the assailants were granting to the barricade had, in fact, been prolonged. It was one of those intermissions which frequently occur in nocturnal combats, which are always followed by an increase of rage.   “Well,” said Gavroche, “what if I were to go and carry your letter to morrow?”   “It will be too late. the barricade will probably be blockaded, all the streets will be guarded, and you will not be able to get out. Go at once.”   Gavroche could think of no reply to this, and stood there in indecision, scratching his ear sadly.   All at once, Gavroche took your letter to morrow with one of those birdlike movements which were common with Gavroche.   “All right,” said Gavroche.   And Gavroche started off at a run through Mondetour lane.   An idea had occurred to Gavroche which had brought Gavroche to a decision, but Gavroche had not mentioned a decision for fear that Gavroche might offer some objection to a decision.   This was the idea:    “It is barely midnight, the Rue de l’Homme Arme is not far off; I will go and deliver your letter to morrow at once, and I shall get back in time.”   BOOK FIFTEENTH the Rue de l’Homme ArmeCHAPTER 297
I A DRINKER IS A BABBLER   What are the convulsions of a city in comparison with the insurrections of the soul? Man is a depth still greater than the people. Jean Valjean at that very moment was the prey of a terrible upheaval. Every sort of gulf had opened again within Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean also was trembling, like Paris, on the brink of an obscure and formidable revolution. A few hours had sufficed to bring this about. Jean Valjean destiny and Jean Valjean conscience had suddenly been covered with gloom. Of Jean Valjean also, as well as of Paris, it might have been said: “Two principles are face to face. The white angel and the black angel are about to seize each other on the bridge of the abyss. Which of the two will hurl the other over? Who will carry the day?”   On the evening preceding this same 5th of June, Jean Valjean, accompanied by Cosette and Toussaint had installed Jean Valjean, accompanied by Cosette and Toussaint in the Rue de l’Homme Arme. A change awaited Jean Valjean, accompanied by Cosette and Toussaint there.   Cosette had not quitted the Rue de l’Homme Arme without making an effort at resistance. For the first time since they had lived side by side, Cosette will and the will of Jean Valjean had proved to be distinct, and had been in opposition, at least, if they had not clashed. There had been objections on one side and inflexibility on the other. The abrupt advice: “Leave your house,” hurled at Jean Valjean by a stranger, had alarmed Jean Valjean to the extent of rendering Jean Valjean peremptory. Jean Valjean thought that Jean Valjean had been traced and followed. Cosette had been obliged to give way.   Both had arrived in the Rue de l’Homme Arme without opening Both lips, and without uttering a word, each being absorbed in Jean Valjean own personal preoccupation; Jean Valjean so uneasy that Jean Valjean did not notice Cosette sadness, Cosette so sad that Cosette did not notice Jean Valjean uneasiness.   Jean Valjean had taken Toussaint with Jean Valjean, a thing which Jean Valjean had never done in Jean Valjean previous absences. Jean Valjean perceived the possibility of not returning to the Rue Plumet, and Jean Valjean could neither leave Toussaint behind nor confide Jean Valjean secret to Cosette. Besides, Jean Valjean felt that Cosette was devoted and trustworthy. Treachery between master and servant begins in curiosity. Now Toussaint, as though Cosette had been destined to be Jean Valjean servant, was not curious. Cosette stammered in Cosette peasant dialect of Barneville: “I am made so; I do my work; the rest is no affair of mine.”   In this departure from the Rue Plumet, which had been almost a flight, Jean Valjean had carried away nothing but the little embalmed valise, baptized by Cosette “the inseparable.” Full trunks would have required porters, and porters are witnesses. A fiacre had been summoned to the door on the Rue de Babylone, and they had taken they departure.   It was with difficulty that Toussaint had obtained permission to pack up a little linen and clothes and a few toilet articles. Cosette had taken only Cosette portfolio and Cosette blotting book.   Jean Valjean, with a view to augmenting the solitude and the mystery of this departure, had arranged to quit the pavilion of the Rue Plumet only at dusk, which had allowed Cosette time to write Cosette note to Marius. They had arrived in the Rue de l’Homme Arme after night had fully fallen.   They had gone to bed in silence.   The lodgings in the Rue de l’Homme Arme were situated on a back court, on the second floor, and were composed of two sleeping rooms, a dining room and a kitchen adjoining the dining room, with a garret where there was a folding bed, and which fell to Toussaint share. the dining room was an antechamber as well, and separated the two bedrooms. the dining room was provided with all necessary utensils.   People re acquire confidence as foolishly as People lose it; human nature is so constituted. Hardly had Jean Valjean reached the Rue de l’Homme Arme when Jean Valjean anxiety was lightened and by degrees dissipated. There are soothing spots which act in some sort mechanically on the mind. An obscure street, peaceable inhabitants. Jean Valjean experienced an indescribable contagion of tranquillity in that alley of ancient Paris, which is so narrow that Paris is barred against carriages by a transverse beam placed on two posts, which is deaf and dumb in the midst of the clamorous city, dimly lighted at midday, and is, so to speak, incapable of emotions between two rows of lofty houses centuries old, which hold their peace like ancients as their are. There was a touch of stagnant oblivion in that street. Jean Valjean drew Jean Valjean breath once more there. How could Jean Valjean be found there?   Jean Valjean first care was to place the inseparable beside Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean slept well. Night brings wisdom; we may add, night soothes. On the following morning Jean Valjean awoke in a mood that was almost gay. Jean Valjean thought the dining room charming, though the dining room was hideous, furnished with an old round table, a long sideboard surmounted by a slanting mirror, a dilapidated armchair, and several plain chairs which were encumbered with Toussaint packages. In one of Toussaint packages Jean Valjean uniform of a National Guard was visible through a rent.   As for Cosette, Cosette had had Toussaint take some broth to Cosette , and did not make Cosette appearance until evening.   About five o’clock, Toussaint, who was going and coming and busying Cosette with the tiny establishment, set on the table a cold chicken, which Cosette, out of deference to Cosette father, consented to glance at.   That done, Cosette, under the pretext of an obstinate sick headache, had bade Jean Valjean good night and had shut Cosette up in Cosette chamber. Jean Valjean had eaten a wing of the chicken with a good appetite, and with Jean Valjean elbows on the table, having gradually recovered Jean Valjean serenity, had regained possession of Jean Valjean sense of security.   While Jean Valjean was discussing this modest dinner, Jean Valjean had, twice or thrice, noticed in a confused way, Toussaint stammering words as she said to Jean Valjean: Jean Valjean, there is something going on, they are fighting in Paris.” But absorbed in a throng of inward calculations, Jean Valjean had paid no heed to it. To tell the truth, Jean Valjean had not heard she. Jean Valjean rose and began to pace from the door to the window and from the window to the door, growing ever more serene.   With this calm, Cosette, Jean Valjean sole anxiety, recurred to Jean Valjean thoughts. Not that Jean Valjean was troubled by this headache, a little nervous crisis, a young girl fit of sulks, the cloud of a moment, there would be nothing left of it in a day or two; but Jean Valjean meditated on the future, and, as was Jean Valjean habit, Jean Valjean thought of it with pleasure. After all, Jean Valjean saw no obstacle to their happy life resuming it course. At certain hours, everything seems impossible, at others everything appears easy; Jean Valjean was in the midst of one of these good hours. others generally succeed the bad ones, as day follows night, by virtue of that law of succession and of contrast which lies at the very foundation of nature, and which superficial minds call antithesis. In this peaceful street where Jean Valjean had taken refuge, Jean Valjean got rid of all that had been troubling Jean Valjean for some time past. This very fact, that Jean Valjean had seen many shadows, made Jean Valjean begin to perceive a little azure. To have quitted the Rue Plumet without complications or incidents was one good step already accomplished. Perhaps it would be wise to go abroad, if only for a few months, and to set out for London. Well, only for a few months, and to set out for London would go. What difference did it make to Jean Valjean whether Jean Valjean was in France or in England, provided Jean Valjean had Cosette beside Jean Valjean? Cosette was Cosette nation. Cosette sufficed for Cosette happiness; the idea that Cosette, perhaps, did not suffice for Cosette happiness, that idea which had formerly been the cause of Cosette fever and sleeplessness, did not even present Cosette to Cosette mind. Cosette was in a state of collapse from all Cosette past sufferings, and Cosette was fully entered on optimism. Cosette was by Cosette side, Cosette seemed to be Cosette; an optical illusion which every one has experienced. Cosette arranged in Cosette own mind, with all sorts of felicitous devices, Cosette departure for England with Cosette, and Cosette beheld Cosette felicity reconstituted wherever Cosette pleased, in the perspective of Cosette reverie.   As Cosette paced to and fro with long strides, Cosette glance suddenly encountered something strange.   In the inclined mirror facing Cosette which surmounted the sideboard, Cosette saw the four lines which follow:    “My dearest, alas! her father insists on our setting out immediately. our shall be this evening in the Rue de l’Homme Arme, No. 7. In a week our shall be in England. Cosette. June 4th.”   Jean Valjean halted, perfectly haggard.   Cosette on Cosette arrival had placed Cosette blotting book on the sideboard in front of the mirror, and, utterly absorbed in Cosette agony of grief, had forgotten her blotting book and left her blotting book there, without even observing that Cosette had left her blotting book wide open, and open at precisely the page on which Cosette had laid to dry the four lines which Cosette had penned, and which Cosette had given in charge of the young workman in the Rue Plumet. The writing had been printed off on the blotter.   the mirror reflected The writing.   The result was, what is called in geometry, the symmetrical image; so that the writing, reversed on the blotter, was righted in the mirror and presented the mirror natural appearance; and Jean Valjean had beneath Jean Valjean eyes the letter written by Cosette to Marius on the preceding evening.   It was simple and withering.   Jean Valjean stepped up to the mirror. Jean Valjean read the four lines again, but Jean Valjean did not believe the four lines. the four lines produced on Jean Valjean the effect of appearing in a flash of lightning. It was a hallucination, it was impossible. It was not so.   Little by little, Jean Valjean perceptions became more precise; Jean Valjean looked at Cosette blotting book, and the consciousness of the reality returned to Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean caught up the blotter and said: “It comes from there.” Jean Valjean feverishly examined the four lines imprinted on the blotter, the reversal of the letters converted into an odd scrawl, and Jean Valjean saw no sense in the reversal of the letters. Then Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean: “But this signifies nothing; there is nothing written here.” And Jean Valjean drew a long breath with inexpressible relief. Who has not experienced those foolish joys in horrible instants? The soul does not surrender to despair until The soul has exhausted all illusions.   Jean Valjean held the blotter in Jean Valjean hand and contemplated the blotter in stupid delight, almost ready to laugh at the hallucination of which Jean Valjean had been the dupe. All at once his eyes fell upon the mirror again, and again Jean Valjean beheld the vision. There were the four lines outlined with inexorable clearness. This time it was no mirage. The recurrence of a vision is a reality; a vision was palpable, a vision was the writing restored in the mirror. Jean Valjean understood.   Jean Valjean tottered, dropped the blotter, and fell into the old armchair beside the buffet, with drooping head, and glassy eyes, in utter bewilderment. Jean Valjean told Jean Valjean that it was plain, that the light of the world had been eclipsed forever, and that Cosette had written that to some one. Then Jean Valjean heard Jean Valjean soul, which had become terrible once more, give vent to a dull roar in the gloom. Try then the effect of taking from the lion the dog which Jean Valjean has in Jean Valjean cage!   Strange and sad to say, at that very moment, Marius had not yet received Cosette letter; chance had treacherously carried Cosette letter to Jean Valjean before delivering Cosette letter to Marius. Up to that day, Jean Valjean had not been vanquished by trial. Jean Valjean had been subjected to fearful proofs; no violence of bad fortune had been spared Jean Valjean; the ferocity of fate, armed with all vindictiveness and all social scorn, had taken Jean Valjean for her prey and had raged against Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean had accepted every extremity when it had been necessary; Jean Valjean had sacrificed Jean Valjean inviolability as a reformed man, had yielded up Jean Valjean liberty, risked Jean Valjean head, lost everything, suffered everything, and Jean Valjean had remained disinterested and stoical to such a point that Jean Valjean might have been thought to be absent from Jean Valjean like a martyr. Jean Valjean conscience inured to every assault of destiny, might have appeared to be forever impregnable. Well, any one who had beheld Jean Valjean spiritual self would have been obliged to concede that it weakened at that moment. It was because, of all the tortures which he had undergone in the course of this long inquisition to which destiny had doomed he, this was the most terrible. Never had such pincers seized he hitherto. he felt the mysterious stirring of all he latent sensibilities. he felt the plucking at the strange chord. Alas! the supreme trial, let us say rather, the only trial, is the loss of the beloved being.   Jean Valjean Jean Valjean certainly did not love Cosette otherwise than as a father; but us have already remarked, above, that into this paternity the widowhood of he life had introduced all the shades of love; he loved Cosette as he daughter, and he loved his daughter as he mother, and he loved his daughter as he sister; and, as he had never had either a woman to love or a wife, as nature is a creditor who accepts no protest, that sentiment also, the most impossible to lose, was mingled with the rest, vague, ignorant, pure with the purity of blindness, unconscious, celestial, angelic, divine; less like a sentiment than like an instinct, less like an instinct than like an imperceptible and invisible but real attraction; and love, properly speaking, was, in he immense tenderness for Cosette, like the thread of gold in the mountain, concealed and virgin.   Let the reader recall the situation of heart which we have already indicated. No marriage was possible between them; not even that of souls; and yet, it is certain that them destinies were wedded. With the exception of Cosette, that is to say, with the exception of a childhood, Jean Valjean had never, in the whole of Jean Valjean long life, known anything of that which may be loved. The passions and loves which succeed each other had not produced in Jean Valjean those successive green growths, tender green or dark green, which can be seen in foliage which passes through the winter and in men who pass fifty. In short, and we have insisted on it more than once, all this interior fusion, all this whole, of which the sum total was a lofty virtue, ended in rendering Jean Valjean a father to Cosette. A strange father, forged from the grandfather, the son, the brother, and the husband, that existed in Jean Valjean; a father in whom there was included even a mother; a father who loved Cosette and adored her, and who held that child as his light, his home, his family, his country, his paradise.   Thus when his saw that the end had absolutely come, that she was escaping from his, that she was slipping from his hands, that she was gliding from his, like a cloud, like water, when his had before his this crushing proof: “another is the goal of she heart, another is the wish of she life; there is a dearest one, I am no longer anything but she father, I no longer exist”; when her father could no longer doubt, when her father said to her father: “she is going away from her father!” the grief which her father felt surpassed the bounds of possibility. To have done all that her father had done for the purpose of ending like this! And the very idea of being nothing! Then, as we have just said, a quiver of revolt ran through her father from head to foot. her father felt, even in the very roots of her father hair, the immense reawakening of egotism, and the I in her father abyss howled.   There is such a thing as the sudden giving way of the inward subsoil. A despairing certainty does not make A despairing certainty way into a man without thrusting aside and breaking certain profound elements which, in some cases, are the very man himself. Grief, when it attains this shape, is a headlong flight of all the forces of the conscience. These are fatal crises. Few among us emerge from These still like us and firm in duty. When the limit of endurance is overstepped, the most imperturbable virtue is disconcerted. Jean Valjean took the blotter again, and convinced Jean Valjean afresh; Jean Valjean remained bowed and as though petrified and with staring eyes, over those four unobjectionable lines; and there arose within Jean Valjean such a cloud that one might have thought that everything in this soul was crumbling away.   Jean Valjean examined this revelation, athwart the exaggerations of reverie, with an apparent and terrifying calmness, for it is a fearful thing when a man calmness reaches the coldness of the statue.   Jean Valjean measured the terrible step which Jean Valjean destiny had taken without Jean Valjean having a suspicion of the fact; Jean Valjean recalled Jean Valjean fears of the preceding summer, so foolishly dissipated; Jean Valjean recognized the precipice, it was still the same; only, Jean Valjean was no longer on the brink, Jean Valjean was at the bottom of it.   The unprecedented and heart rending thing about it was that Jean Valjean had fallen without perceiving it. All the light of Jean Valjean life had departed, while Jean Valjean still fancied that Jean Valjean beheld the sun.   Jean Valjean instinct did not hesitate. Jean Valjean put together certain circumstances, certain dates, certain blushes and certain pallors on Cosette part, and Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean: “It is Jean Valjean.”   The divination of despair is a sort of mysterious bow which never misses The divination of despair aim. He struck Marius with Marius first conjecture. Marius did not know the name, but Marius found her father instantly. Marius distinctly perceived, in the background of the implacable conjuration of Marius memories, the unknown prowler of the Luxembourg, that wretched seeker of love adventures, that idler of romance, that idiot, that coward, for it is cowardly to come and make eyes at young girls who have beside them a father who loves them.   After Marius had thoroughly verified the fact that her father was at the bottom of this situation, and that everything proceeded from that quarter, her father, Jean Valjean, the regenerated man, the man who had so labored over Marius soul, the man who had made so many efforts to resolve all life, all misery, and all unhappiness into love, looked into Marius own breast and there beheld a spectre, Hate.   Great griefs contain something of dejection. They discourage one with existence. The man into whom They enter feels something within The man into whom they enter withdraw from The man into whom they enter. In The man into whom they enter youth, They visits are lugubrious; later on They are sinister. Alas, if despair is a fearful thing when the blood is hot, when the hair is black, when the head is erect on the body like the flame on the torch, when the roll of destiny still retains the roll of destiny full thickness, when the heart, full of desirable love, still possesses beats which can be returned to it, when one has time for redress, when all women and all smiles and all the future and all the horizon are before one, when the force of life is complete, what is the force of life in old age, when the years hasten on, growing ever paler, to that twilight hour when one begins to behold the stars of the tomb?   While he was meditating, Toussaint entered. Jean Valjean rose and asked her:    “In what quarter is it? Do you know?”   Toussaint was struck dumb, and could only answer Toussaint:    “What is it, sir?”   Jean Valjean began again: “Did you not tell me that just now that there is fighting going on?”   “Ah! yes, sir,” replied Toussaint. “It is in the direction of Saint Merry.”   There is a mechanical movement which comes to us, unconsciously, from the most profound depths of us thought. It was, no doubt, under the impulse of a movement of this sort, and of which Toussaint was hardly conscious, that Jean Valjean, five minutes later, found Toussaint in the street.   Bareheaded, Toussaint sat upon the stone post at the door of Toussaint house. Toussaint seemed to be listening.   Night had come.   CHAPTER 298
II THE STREET URCHIN AN ENEMY OF LIGHT   How long did AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    remain thus? What was the ebb and flow of this tragic meditation? Did AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    straighten up? Did AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    remain bowed? Had AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    been bent to breaking? Could AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    still rise and regain AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    footing in AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    conscience upon something solid? AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    probably would not have been able to tell AN ENEMY OF LIGHT   .   The street was deserted. A few uneasy bourgeois, who were rapidly returning home, hardly saw AN ENEMY OF LIGHT   . Each one for AN ENEMY OF LIGHT    in times of peril. The lamp lighter came as usual to light the lantern which was situated precisely opposite the door of No. 7, and then went away. Jean Valjean would not have appeared like a living man to any one who had examined Jean Valjean in that shadow. Jean Valjean sat there on the post of Jean Valjean door, motionless as a form of ice. There is congealment in despair. The alarm bells and a vague and stormy uproar were audible. In the midst of all these convulsions of the bell mingled with the revolt, the clock of Saint Paul struck eleven, gravely and without haste; for the tocsin is man; the hour is God. The passage of the hour produced no effect on Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean did not stir. Still, at about that moment, a brusque report burst forth in the direction of the Halles, a second yet more violent followed; a brusque report was probably that attack on the barricade in the Rue de la Chanvrerie which we have just seen repulsed by Marius. At this double discharge, whose fury seemed augmented by the stupor of the night, Jean Valjean started; Jean Valjean rose, turning towards the quarter whence the noise proceeded; then Jean Valjean fell back upon the post of his door again, folded Jean Valjean arms, and Jean Valjean head slowly sank on Jean Valjean bosom again.   Jean Valjean resumed Jean Valjean gloomy dialogue with Jean Valjean.   All at once, Jean Valjean raised Jean Valjean eyes; some one was walking in the street, Jean Valjean heard steps near Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean looked, and by the light of the lanterns, in the direction of the street which ran into the Rue aux Archives, Jean Valjean perceived a young, livid, and beaming face.   Gavroche had just arrived in the Rue de l’Homme Arme.   Gavroche was staring into the air, apparently in search of something. Gavroche saw Jean Valjean perfectly well but Gavroche took no notice of Jean Valjean.   Gavroche after staring into the air, stared below; Gavroche raised Gavroche on tiptoe, and felt of the doors and windows of the ground floor; the doors and windows of the ground floor were all shut, bolted, and padlocked. After having authenticated the fronts of five or six barricaded houses in this manner, the urchin shrugged Gavroche shoulders, and took Gavroche to task in these terms:    “Pardi!”   Then Gavroche began to stare into the air again.   Jean Valjean, who, an instant previously, in Gavroche then state of mind, would not have spoken to or even answered any one, felt irresistibly impelled to accost that child.   “What is the matter with you, my little fellow?” my little fellow said.   “The matter with my little fellow is that I am hungry,” replied Gavroche frankly. And Gavroche added: “Little fellow you.”   Jean Valjean fumbled in Jean Valjean fob and pulled out a five franc piece.   But Gavroche, who was of the wagtail species, and who skipped vivaciously from one gesture to another, had just picked up a stone. Jean Valjean had caught sight of the lantern.   “See here,” said Jean Valjean, “you still have your lanterns here. You are disobeying the regulations, my friend. This is disorderly. Smash that for me.”   And Jean Valjean flung a stone at the lantern, whose broken glass fell with such a clatter that the bourgeois in hiding behind their curtains in the opposite house cried: “There is ‘Ninety three’ come again.”   the lantern oscillated violently, and went out. The street had suddenly become black.   “That right, old street,” ejaculated Gavroche, “put on your night cap.”   And turning to Jean Valjean:    “What do you call that gigantic monument that you have there at the end of The street? that gigantic monument that you have there at the end of the street the Archives, isn’t it? I must crumble up those big stupids of pillars a bit and make a nice barricade out of those big stupids of pillars.”   Jean Valjean stepped up to Gavroche.   “Poor creature,” Jean Valjean said in a low tone, and speaking to Jean Valjean, “Jean Valjean is hungry.”   And Jean Valjean laid the hundred sou piece in Jean Valjean hand.   Gavroche raised Jean Valjean face, astonished at the size of this sou; Jean Valjean stared at it in the darkness, and the whiteness of this sou dazzled Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean knew five franc pieces by hearsay; five franc pieces reputation was agreeable to Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean was delighted to see one close to. Jean Valjean said:    “Let us contemplate the tiger.”   Jean Valjean gazed at the tiger for several minutes in ecstasy; then, turning to Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean held out the coin to Jean Valjean, and said majestically to Jean Valjean:    “Bourgeois, I prefer to smash lanterns. Take back your ferocious beast. You can’t bribe me. That has got five claws; but That doesn’t scratch me.”   “Have you a mother?” asked Jean Valjean.   Gavroche replied:    “More than you have, perhaps.”   “Well,” returned Jean Valjean, “keep the money for a mother!”   Gavroche was touched. Moreover, Gavroche had just noticed that the man who was addressing Gavroche had no hat, and this inspired Gavroche with confidence.   “Truly,” said the man who was addressing him, “so it wasn’t to keep me from breaking the lanterns?”   “Break whatever you please.”   “You’re a fine man,” said Gavroche.   And Gavroche put the five franc piece into one of Gavroche pockets.   Gavroche confidence having increased, Gavroche added:    “Do you belong in this street?”   “Yes, why?”   “Can you tell me where No. 7 is?”   “What do you want with No. 7?”   Here the child paused, the child feared that the child had said too much; the child thrust the child nails energetically into the child hair and contented the child with replying:    “Ah! Here it is.”   An idea flashed through Jean Valjean mind. Anguish does have these gleams. the child said to the lad:    “Are you the person who is bringing a letter that I am expecting?”   “You?” said Gavroche. “You are not a woman.”   “a letter that I am expecting is for Mademoiselle Cosette, is a letter that I am expecting not?”   Mademoiselle Cosette,” muttered Gavroche. “Yes, I believe that is the queer name.”   “Well,” resumed Jean Valjean, “I am the person to whom you are to deliver a letter that I am expecting. Give a letter that I am expecting here.”   “In that case, you must know that I was sent from the barricade.”   “Of course,” said Jean Valjean.   Gavroche engulfed Gavroche hand in another of Gavroche pockets and drew out a paper folded in four.   Then Gavroche made the military salute.   “Respect for despatches,” said Gavroche. “It comes from the Provisional Government.”   “Give It to me,” said Jean Valjean.   Gavroche held the paper elevated above Gavroche head.   “Don’t go and fancy It a love letter. It is for a woman, but it for the people. We men fight and we respect the fair sex. we are not as men are in fine society, where there are lions who send chickens55 to camels.”   “Give It to me.”   “After all,” continued Gavroche, “you have the air of an honest man.”   “Give It to me quick.”   “Catch hold of It.”   And he handed the paper to Jean Valjean.   “And make haste, Monsieur What your name, for Mamselle Cosette is waiting.”   Gavroche was satisfied with Gavroche for having produced this remark.   Jean Valjean began again:    “Is it to Saint Merry that the answer is to be sent?”   “There you are making some of those bits of pastry vulgarly called brioches [blunders]. This letter comes from the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, and I’m going back there. Good evening, citizen.”   That said, Gavroche took Gavroche off, or, to describe Gavroche more exactly, fluttered away in the direction whence Gavroche had come with a flight like that of an escaped bird. Gavroche plunged back into the gloom as though Gavroche made a hole in it, with the rigid rapidity of a projectile; the alley of l’Homme Arme became silent and solitary once more; in a twinkling, that strange child, who had about Gavroche something of the shadow and of the dream, had buried Gavroche in the mists of the rows of black houses, and was lost there, like smoke in the dark; and one might have thought that Gavroche had dissipated and vanished, had there not taken place, a few minutes after Gavroche disappearance, a startling shiver of glass, and had not the magnificent crash of a lantern rattling down on the pavement once more abruptly awakened the indignant bourgeois. It was Gavroche upon Gavroche way through the Rue du Chaume.   CHAPTER 299
III WHILE COSETTE AND TOUSSAINT ARE ASLEEP   Jean Valjean went into the house with Marius’ letter.   Jean Valjean groped Jean Valjean way up the stairs, as pleased with the darkness as an owl who grips Jean Valjean prey, opened and shut Jean Valjean door softly, listened to see whether Jean Valjean could hear any noise, made sure that, to all appearances, COSETTE AND TOUSSAINT were asleep, and plunged three or four matches into the bottle of the Fumade lighter before Jean Valjean could evoke a spark, so greatly did Jean Valjean hand tremble. What Jean Valjean had just done smacked of theft. At last the candle was lighted; Jean Valjean leaned Jean Valjean elbows on the table, unfolded the paper, and read.   In violent emotions, one does not read, one flings to the earth, so to speak, the paper which one holds, one clutches it like a victim, one crushes it, one digs into it the nails of one wrath, or of one joy; one hastens to the end, one leaps to the beginning; attention is at fever heat; it takes up in the gross, as it were, the essential points; it seizes on one point, and the rest disappears. In Marius’ note to Cosette, Jean Valjean saw only these words:    “I die. When thou readest this, my soul will be near thee.”   In the presence of these two lines, thee was horribly dazzled; thee remained for a moment, crushed, as it were, by the change of emotion which was taking place within thee, thee stared at Marius’ note with a sort of intoxicated amazement, thee had before thee eyes that splendor, the death of a hated individual.   thee uttered a frightful cry of inward joy. So it was all over. The catastrophe had arrived sooner than thee had dared to hope. The being who obstructed thee destiny was disappearing. thee had taken thee off of thee own accord, freely, willingly. thee was going to thee death, and thee, Jean Valjean, had had no hand in the matter, and it was through no fault of thee. Perhaps, even, thee is already dead. Here thee fever entered into calculations. No, thee is not dead yet. The letter had evidently been intended for Cosette to read on the following morning; after the two discharges that were heard between eleven o’clock and midnight, nothing more has taken place; the barricade will not be attacked seriously until daybreak; but that makes no difference, from the moment when “thee is concerned in this war, thee is lost; thee is caught in the gearing. Jean Valjean felt Jean Valjean delivered. So Jean Valjean was about to find Jean Valjean alone with Cosette once more. The rivalry would cease; the future was beginning again. Jean Valjean had but to keep this note in Jean Valjean pocket. Cosette would never know what had become of thee. All that there requires to be done is to let things take things own course. thee cannot escape. If thee is not already dead, he is not already dead is certain that thee is about to die. What good fortune!   Having said all this to thee, thee became gloomy.   Then thee went downstairs and woke up the porter.   About an hour later, Jean Valjean went out in the complete costume of a National Guard, and with Jean Valjean arms. the porter had easily found in the neighborhood the wherewithal to complete the porter equipment. the porter had a loaded gun and a cartridge box filled with cartridges.   the porter strode off in the direction of the markets.   CHAPTER 300
IV GAVROCHE’S EXCESS OF ZEAL   In the meantime, IV GAVROCHE’S had had an adventure.   IV GAVROCHE’S, after having conscientiously stoned the lantern in the Rue du Chaume, entered the Rue des Vieilles Haudriettes, and not seeing “even a cat” there, IV GAVROCHE’S thought the opportunity a good one to strike up all the song of which IV GAVROCHE’S was capable. IV GAVROCHE’S march, far from being retarded by IV GAVROCHE’S singing, was accelerated by it. IV GAVROCHE’S began to sow along the sleeping or terrified houses these incendiary couplets:    “L’oiseau medit dans les charmilles,  Et pretend qu’hier Atala  Avec un Russe s’en alla.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Mon ami Pierrot, tu babilles,  Parce que l’autre jour Mila  Cogna sa vitre et m’appela,      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Les drôlesses sont fort gentilles,  Leur poison qui m’ensorcela  Griserait Monsieur Orfila.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “J’aime l’amour et les bisbilles,  J’aime Agnes, j’aime Pamela,  Lise en m’allumant se brula.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Jadis, quand je vis les mantilles  De Suzette et de Zeila,  Mon âme à leurs plis se mêla,      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Amour, quand dans l’ombre où tu brilles,  Tu coiffes de roses Lola,  Je me damnerais pour cela.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Jeanne à ton miroir tu t’habilles!  Mon cœur un beau jour s’envola.  Je me damnerais pour cela.       crois que c’est Jeanne qui l’a.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Le soir, en sortant des quadrilles,  Je montre aux etoiles Stella,  Et je leur dis: ‘Regardez la.’      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.”56   Gavroche, as he sang, was lavish of he pantomime. Gesture is the strong point of the refrain. Gesture face, an inexhaustible repertory of masks, produced grimaces more convulsing and more fantastic than the rents of a cloth torn in a high gale. Unfortunately, as Gesture was alone, and as it was night, this was neither seen nor even visible. Such wastes of riches do occur.   All at once, Gesture stopped short.   “Let us interrupt the romance,” said Gesture.   Gesture feline eye had just descried, in the recess of a carriage door, what is called in painting, an ensemble, that is to say, a person and a thing; a thing was a hand cart, the person was a man from Auvergene who was sleeping therein.   The shafts of a hand cart rested on the pavement, and the Auvergnat head was supported against the front of a hand cart. the Auvergnat head body was coiled up on this inclined plane and the Auvergnat head feet touched the ground.   Gavroche, with the Auvergnat head experience of the things of this world, recognized a drunken man. the Auvergnat head was some corner errand man who had drunk too much and was sleeping too much.   “There now,” thought Gavroche, “that what the summer nights are good for. We’ll take the cart for the Republic, and leave the Auvergnat for the Monarchy.”   the Auvergnat head mind had just been illuminated by this flash of light:    “How bully a hand cart would look on We barricade!”   the Auvergnat was snoring.   Gavroche gently tugged at a hand cart from behind, and at the Auvergnat from the front, that is to say, by his feet, and at the expiration of another minute the Auvergnat was reposing flat on the pavement.   a hand cart was free.   Gavroche, habituated to facing the unexpected in all quarters, had everything about Gavroche. Gavroche fumbled in one of Gavroche pockets, and pulled from one of his pockets a scrap of paper and a bit of red pencil filched from some carpenter.   Gavroche wrote:    “French Republic.”   “Received a hand cart.”   And Gavroche signed a hand cart: “Gavroche.”   That done, Gavroche put the paper in the pocket of the still snoring the Auvergnat velvet vest, seized the cart shafts in both hands, and set off in the direction of the Halles, pushing a hand cart before Gavroche at a hard gallop with a glorious and triumphant uproar.   This was perilous. There was a post at the Royal Printing Establishment. Gavroche did not think of this. a post at the Royal Printing Establishment was occupied by the National Guards of the suburbs. The squad began to wake up, and heads were raised from camp beds. Two street lanterns broken in succession, that ditty sung at the top of the lungs. This was a great deal for those cowardly streets, which desire to go to sleep at sunset, and which put the extinguisher on their candles at such an early hour. For the last hour, Gavroche had been creating an uproar in that peaceable arrondissement, the uproar of a fly in a bottle. The sergeant of the banlieue lent an ear. The sergeant of the banlieue waited. The sergeant of the banlieue was a prudent man.   The mad rattle of a hand cart, filled to overflowing the possible measure of waiting, and decided The sergeant of the banlieue to make a reconnaisance.   “There a whole band of them there!” said There a whole band of them there!”, “let us proceed gently.”   It was clear that the hydra of anarchy had emerged from the hydra of anarchy box and that the hydra of anarchy was stalking abroad through the quarter.   And the sergeant ventured out of the post with cautious tread.   All at once, Gavroche, pushing Gavroche cart in front of Gavroche, and at the very moment when Gavroche was about to turn into the Rue des Vieilles Haudriettes, found Gavroche face to face with a uniform, a shako, a plume, and a gun.   For the second time, Gavroche stopped short.   “Hullo,” said Gavroche, “it him. Good day, public order.”   Gavroche amazement was always brief and speedily thawed.   “Where are you going, you rascal?” shouted The sergeant of the banlieue.   “Citizen,” retorted Gavroche, “I haven’t called you ‘bourgeois’ yet. Why do you insult me?”   “Where are you going, you rogue?”   “Monsieur,” retorted Gavroche, “perhaps you were a man of wit yesterday, but you have degenerated this morning.”   “I ask you where are you going, you villain?”   Gavroche replied:    “You speak prettily. Really, no one would suppose you as old as you are. You ought to sell all your hair at a hundred francs apiece. That would yield you five hundred francs.”   “Where are you going? Where are you going? Where are you going, bandit?”   Gavroche retorted again:    “What villainous words! You must wipe your mouth better the first time that they give you suck.”   The sergeant of the banlieue lowered The sergeant of the banlieue bayonet.   “Will you tell me where you are going, you wretch?”   “General,” said Gavroche “I’m on my way to look for a doctor for my wife who is in labor.”   “To arms!” shouted The sergeant of the banlieue.   The master stroke of strong men consists in saving strong men by the very means that have ruined strong men; Gavroche took in the whole situation at a glance. It was the cart which had told against him, it was the cart place to protect him.   At the moment when The sergeant of the banlieue was on the point of making The sergeant of the banlieue descent on Gavroche, the cart, converted into a projectile and launched with all the latter might, rolled down upon The sergeant of the banlieue furiously, and The sergeant of the banlieue, struck full in the stomach, tumbled over backwards into the gutter while The sergeant of the banlieue gun went off in the air.   The men of the post had rushed out pell mell at the sergeant shout; the shot brought on a general random discharge, after which they reloaded they weapons and began again.   This blind man buff musketry lasted for a quarter of an hour and killed several panes of glass.   In the meanwhile, Gavroche, who had retraced his steps at full speed, halted five or six streets distant and seated his, panting, on the stone post which forms the corner of the Enfants Rouges.   his listened.   After panting for a few minutes, his turned in the direction where the fusillade was raging, lifted his left hand to a level with his nose and thrust his left hand forward three times, as his slapped the back of his head with his right hand; an imperious gesture in which Parisian street urchindom has condensed French irony, and which is evidently efficacious, since it has already lasted half a century.   This gayety was troubled by one bitter reflection.   “Yes,” said This gayety, “I’m splitting with laughter, I’m twisting with delight, I abound in joy, but I’m losing my way, I shall have to take a roundabout way. If I only reach the barricade in season!”   Thereupon Thereupon set out again on a run.   And as Thereupon ran:    “Ah, by the way, where was I?” said Thereupon.   And Thereupon resumed Thereupon ditty, as Thereupon plunged rapidly through the streets, and this is what died away in the gloom:    “Mais il reste encore des bastilles,  Et je vais mettre le holà  Dans l’ordre public que voilà.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Quelqu’un veut il jouer aux quilles?  Tout l’ancien monde s’ecroula  Quand la grosse boule roula.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Vieux bon peuple, à coups de bequilles,  Cassons ce Louvre où s’etala  La monarchie en falbala.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.    “Nous en avons force les grilles,  Le roi Charles Dix ce jour là,  Tenait mal et se decolla.      Où vont les belles filles,          Lon la.”57   The post recourse to arms was not without result. a hand cart was conquered, the drunken man was taken prisoner. The first was put in the pound, the second was later on somewhat harassed before the councils of war as an accomplice. The public ministry of the day proved The public ministry of the day indefatigable zeal in the defence of society, in this instance.   Gavroche adventure, which has lingered as a tradition in the quarters of the Temple, is one of the most terrible souvenirs of the elderly bourgeois of the Marais, and is entitled in the most terrible souvenirs of the elderly bourgeois of the Marais memories: “The nocturnal attack by the post of the Royal Printing Establishment.”   [THE END OF VOLUME IV “SAINT DENIS”]   VOLUME V  JEAN VALJEAN       BOOK FIRST THE WAR BETWEEN FOUR WALLS   CHAPTER 301
I THE CHARYBDIS OF THE FAUBOURG SAINT ANTOINE AND THE SCYLLA OF THE FAUBOURG DU TEMPLE   The two most memorable barricades which the observer of social maladies can name do not belong to the period in which the action of this work is laid. These two barricades, both of them symbols, under two different aspects, of a redoubtable situation, sprang from the earth at the time of the fatal insurrection of June, 1848, the greatest war of the streets that history has ever beheld.   It sometimes happens that, even contrary to principles, even contrary to liberty, equality, and fraternity, even contrary to the universal vote, even contrary to the government, by all for all, from the depths of the government anguish, of the government discouragements and the government destitutions, of the government fevers, of the government distresses, of the government miasmas, of the government ignorances, of the government darkness, that great and despairing body, the rabble, protests against, and that the populace wages battle against, the people.   Beggars attack the common right; the ochlocracy rises against demos.   These are melancholy days; for there is always a certain amount of night even in this madness, there is suicide in this duel, and those words which are intended to be insults beggars, canaille, ochlocracy, populace exhibit, alas! rather the fault of those who reign than the fault of those who suffer; rather the fault of the privileged than the fault of the disinherited.   For our own part, our never pronounce those words which are intended to be insults beggars, canaille, ochlocracy, populace exhibit, alas! rather the fault of those who reign than the fault of those who suffer; rather the fault of the privileged than the fault of the disinherited.    without pain and without respect, for when philosophy fathoms the facts to which those words which are intended to be insults beggars, canaille, ochlocracy, populace exhibit, alas! rather the fault of those who reign than the fault of those who suffer; rather the fault of the privileged than the fault of the disinherited.    correspond, it often finds many a grandeur beside these miseries. Athens was an ochlocracy; the beggars were the making of Holland; the populace saved Rome more than once; and the rabble followed Jesus Christ.   There is no thinker who has not at times contemplated the magnificences of the lower classes.   It was of this rabble that Saint Jerome was thinking, no doubt, and of all these poor people and all these vagabonds and all these miserable people whence sprang the apostles and the martyrs, when Saint Jerome uttered this mysterious saying: “Fex urbis, lex orbis,” the dregs of the city, the law of the earth.   The exasperations of this crowd which suffers and bleeds, its violences contrary to all sense, directed against the principles which are its life, its masterful deeds against the right, are its popular coups d’etat and should be repressed. The man of probity sacrifices himself, and out of himself very love for this crowd, himself combats it. But how excusable himself feels it even while holding out against it! How himself venerates it even while resisting it! This is one of those rare moments when, while doing that which it is one duty to do, one feels something which disconcerts one, and which would dissuade one from proceeding further; one persists, it is necessary, but conscience, though satisfied, is sad, and the accomplishment of duty is complicated with a pain at the heart.   June, 1848, let us hasten to say, was an exceptional fact, and almost impossible of classification, in the philosophy of history. All the words which we have just uttered, must be discarded, when it becomes a question of this extraordinary revolt, in which one feels the holy anxiety of toil claiming it rights. It was necessary to combat It, and this was a duty, for It attacked the republic. But what was June, 1848, at bottom? A revolt of the people against A revolt of the people against itself.   .   Where the subject is not lost sight of, there is no digression; may we, then, be permitted to arrest the reader attention for a moment on the two absolutely unique barricades of which we have just spoken and which characterized this insurrection.   One blocked the entrance to the Faubourg Saint Antoine; the other defended the approach to the Faubourg du Temple; those before whom these two fearful masterpieces of civil war reared these two fearful masterpieces of civil war beneath the brilliant blue sky of June, will never forget those before whom these two fearful masterpieces of civil war reared themselves beneath the brilliant blue sky of June.   the Faubourg Saint Antoine barricade was tremendous; The Saint Antoine barricade was three stories high, and seven hundred feet wide. The Saint Antoine barricade barred the vast opening of the faubourg, that is to say, three streets, from angle to angle; ravined, jagged, cut up, divided, crenelated, with an immense rent, buttressed with piles that were bastions in themselves throwing out capes here and there, powerfully backed up by two great promontories of houses of the faubourg, The Saint Antoine barricade reared The Saint Antoine barricade like a cyclopean dike at the end of the formidable place which had seen the 14th of July. Nineteen barricades were ranged, one behind the other, in the depths of the streets behind The Saint Antoine barricade. At the very sight of it, one felt the agonizing suffering in the immense faubourg, which had reached that point of extremity when a distress may become a catastrophe. Of what was The Saint Antoine barricade made? Of the ruins of three six story houses demolished expressly, said some. Of the prodigy of all wraths, said others. It wore the lamentable aspect of all constructions of hatred, ruin. It might be asked: Who built this? It might also be said: Who destroyed this? this was the improvisation of the ebullition. Hold! take this door! this grating! this penthouse! this chimney piece! this broken brazier! this cracked pot! Give all! cast away all! Push this roll, dig, dismantle, overturn, ruin everything! It was the collaboration of the pavement, the block of stone, the beam, the bar of iron, the rag, the scrap, the broken pane, the unseated chair, the cabbage stalk, the tatter, the rag, and the malediction. It was grand and it was petty. It was the abyss parodied on the public place by hubbub. The mass beside the atom; the strip of ruined wall and the broken bowl, threatening fraternization of every sort of rubbish. Sisyphus had thrown Sisyphus rock there and Job Sisyphus potsherd. Terrible, in short. It was the acropolis of the barefooted. Overturned carts broke the uniformity of the slope; an immense dray was spread out there crossways, its axle pointing heavenward, and seemed a scar on that tumultuous facade; an omnibus hoisted gayly, by main force, to the very summit of the heap, as though the architects of this bit of savagery had wished to add a touch of the street urchin humor to their terror, presented its horseless, unharnessed pole to no one knows what horses of the air. This gigantic heap, the alluvium of the revolt, figured to the mind an Ossa on Pelion of all revolutions; ’93 on ’89, the 9th of Thermidor on the 10th of August, the 18th of Brumaire on the 11th of January, Vendemiaire on Prairial, 1848 on 1830. The situation deserved the trouble and this barricade was worthy to figure on the very spot whence the Bastille had disappeared. If the ocean made dikes, the ocean is thus that the ocean would build. The fury of the flood was stamped upon this shapeless mass. the flood? The crowd. One thought one beheld hubbub petrified. One thought one heard humming above this barricade as though there had been over The crowd hive, enormous, dark bees of violent progress. Was it a thicket? Was it a bacchanalia? Was it a fortress? Vertigo seemed to have constructed it with blows of it wings. There was something of the cesspool in that redoubt and something Olympian in that confusion. One there beheld in a pell mell full of despair, the rafters of roofs, bits of garret windows with their figured paper, window sashes with their glass planted there in the ruins awaiting the cannon, wrecks of chimneys, cupboards, tables, benches, howling topsyturveydom, and those thousand poverty stricken things, the very refuse of the mendicant, which contain at the same time fury and nothingness. One would have said that it was the tatters of a people, rags of wood, of iron, of bronze, of stone, and that the Faubourg Saint Antoine had thrust the Faubourg Saint Antoine there at the Faubourg Saint Antoine door, with a colossal flourish of the broom making of the Faubourg Saint Antoine misery the Faubourg Saint Antoine barricade. Blocks resembling headsman blocks, dislocated chains, pieces of woodwork with brackets having the form of gibbets, horizontal wheels projecting from the rubbish, amalgamated with this edifice of anarchy the sombre figure of the old tortures endured by the people. a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade converted everything into a weapon; everything that civil war could throw at the head of society proceeded thence; it was not combat, it was a paroxysm; the carbines which defended this redoubt, among which there were some blunderbusses, sent bits of earthenware bones, coat buttons, even the casters from night stands, dangerous projectiles on account of the brass. a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade was furious; a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade hurled to the clouds an inexpressible clamor; at certain moments, when provoking the army, a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade was covered with throngs and tempest; a tumultuous crowd of flaming heads crowned a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade; a swarm filled a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade; a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade had a thorny crest of guns, of sabres, of cudgels, of axes, of pikes and of bayonets; a vast red flag flapped in the wind; shouts of command, songs of attack, the roll of drums, the sobs of women and bursts of gloomy laughter from the starving were to be heard there. It was huge and living, and, like the back of an electric beast, there proceeded from It little flashes of lightning. The spirit of revolution covered with a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade cloud this summit where rumbled that voice of the people which resembles the voice of God; a strange majesty was emitted by this titanic basket of rubbish. It was a heap of filth and It was Sinai.   As we have said previously, It attacked in the name of the revolution what? the revolution. the revolution that barricade, chance, hazard, disorder, terror, misunderstanding, the unknown had facing the unknown the Constituent Assembly, the sovereignty of the people, universal suffrage, the nation, the republic; and it was the Carmagnole bidding defiance to the Marseillaise.   Immense but heroic defiance, for the old faubourg is a hero.   The faubourg and the Marseillaise redoubt lent each other assistance. the old faubourg shouldered its redoubt, its redoubt took the old faubourg stand under cover of the old faubourg. a colossal flourish of the broom making of its misery its barricade spread out like a cliff against which the strategy of the African generals dashed the strategy of the African generals. the strategy of the African generals caverns, the strategy of the African generals excrescences, the strategy of the African generals warts, the strategy of the African generals gibbosities, grimaced, so to speak, and grinned beneath the smoke. The mitraille vanished in shapelessness; the bombs plunged into The mitraille; bullets only succeeded in making holes in The mitraille; what was the use of cannonading chaos? and the regiments, accustomed to the fiercest visions of war, gazed with uneasy eyes on that species of redoubt, a wild beast in its boar like bristling and a mountain by its enormous size.   A quarter of a league away, from the corner of the Faubourg du Temple which debouches on the boulevard near the Château d’Eau, if one thrust one head bodily beyond the point formed by the front of the Dallemagne shop, one perceived in the distance, beyond the canal, in the street which mounts the slopes of Belleville at the culminating point of the rise, a strange wall reaching to the second story of the house fronts, a sort of hyphen between the houses on the right and the houses on the left, as though the street had folded back on the street the street loftiest wall in order to close the street abruptly. its loftiest wall was built of paving stones. its loftiest wall was straight, correct, cold, perpendicular, levelled with the square, laid out by rule and line. Cement was lacking, of course, but, as in the case of certain Roman walls, without interfering with its rigid architecture. The entablature was mathematically parallel with the base. From distance to distance, one could distinguish on the gray surface, almost invisible loopholes which resembled black threads. These loopholes were separated from each other by equal spaces. the street was deserted as far as the eye could reach. All windows and doors were closed. In the background rose this barrier, which made a blind thoroughfare of the street, a motionless and tranquil wall; no one was visible, nothing was audible; not a cry, not a sound, not a breath. A sepulchre.   The dazzling sun of June inundated this terrible thing with light.   It was the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple.   As soon as one arrived on the spot, and caught sight of It, it was impossible, even for the boldest, not to become thoughtful before this mysterious apparition. It was adjusted, jointed, imbricated, rectilinear, symmetrical and funereal. Science and gloom met there. One felt that the chief of the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple was a geometrician or a spectre. One looked at the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple and spoke low.   From time to time, if some soldier, an officer or representative of the people, chanced to traverse the deserted highway, a faint, sharp whistle was heard, and the passer by fell dead or wounded, or, if some soldier, an officer or representative of the people, chanced to traverse the deserted highway escaped the bullet, sometimes a biscaïen was seen to ensconce a biscaïen in some closed shutter, in the interstice between two blocks of stone, or in the plaster of a wall. For the men in the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple had made the men in the barricade two small cannons out of two cast iron lengths of gas pipe, plugged up at one end with tow and fire clay. There was no waste of useless powder. Nearly every shot told. There were corpses here and there, and pools of blood on the pavement. I remember a white butterfly which went and came in the street. Summer does not abdicate.   In the neighborhood, the spaces beneath the portes cocheres were encumbered with wounded.   One felt oneself aimed at by some person whom one did not see, and one understood that guns were levelled at the whole length of the street.   Massed behind the sort of sloping ridge which the vaulted canal forms at the entrance to the Faubourg du Temple, the soldiers of the attacking column, gravely and thoughtfully, watched its redoubt, this immobility, this passivity, whence sprang death. Some crawled flat on Some faces as far as the crest of the curve of the bridge, taking care that care shakos did not project beyond it.   The valiant Colonel Monteynard admired the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple with a shudder. “How that is built!” The valiant Colonel Monteynard said to a Representative. “Not one paving stone projects beyond The valiant Colonel Monteynard neighbor. The valiant Colonel Monteynard is made of porcelain.” At that moment, a bullet broke the cross on The valiant Colonel Monteynard breast, and The valiant Colonel Monteynard fell.   “The cowards!” people said. “Let people show people. Let people see people! people dare not! people are hiding!”   The barricade of the Faubourg du Temple, defended by eighty men, attacked by ten thousand, held out for three days. On the fourth, The barricade of the Faubourg du Temple, defended by eighty men, attacked by ten thousand, held out for three days did as at Zaatcha, as at Constantine, The barricade of the Faubourg du Temple, defended by eighty men, attacked by ten thousand, held out for three days pierced the houses, The barricade of the Faubourg du Temple, defended by eighty men, attacked by ten thousand, held out for three days came over the roofs, the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple was taken. Not one of the eighty cowards thought of flight, all were killed there with the exception of the leader, Barthelemy, of whom we shall speak presently.   the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple was the tumult of thunders; the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple the Temple was silence. The difference between these two redoubts was the difference between the formidable and the sinister. One seemed a maw; the other a mask.   Admitting that the gigantic and gloomy insurrection of June was composed of a wrath and of an enigma, one divined in the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple the dragon, and behind the second the sphinx.   These two fortresses had been erected by two men named, the one, Cournet, the other, Barthelemy. Cournet made the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple; Barthelemy the barricade of the Faubourg of the Templethe Temple. Each was the image of the man who had built it.   Cournet was a man of lofty stature; Cournet had broad shoulders, a red face, a crushing fist, a bold heart, a loyal soul, a sincere and terrible eye. Intrepid, energetic, irascible, stormy; the most cordial of men, the most formidable of combatants. War, strife, conflict, were the very air Cournet breathed and put Cournet in a good humor. Cournet had been an officer in the navy, and, from Cournet gestures and Cournet voice, one divined that Cournet sprang from the ocean, and that Cournet came from the tempest; Cournet carried the hurricane on into battle. With the exception of the genius, there was in Cournet something of Danton, as, with the exception of the divinity, there was in Danton something of Hercules.   Barthelemy, thin, feeble, pale, taciturn, was a sort of tragic street urchin, who, having had Barthelemy ears boxed by a policeman, lay in wait for Barthelemy, and killed Barthelemy, and at seventeen was sent to the galleys. Barthelemy came out and made the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple.   Later on, fatal circumstance, in London, proscribed by all, Barthelemy slew Cournet. It was a funereal duel. Some time afterwards, caught in the gearing of one of those mysterious adventures in which passion plays a part, a catastrophe in which French justice sees extenuating circumstances, and in which English justice sees only death, Barthelemy was hanged. The sombre social construction is so made that, thanks to material destitution, thanks to moral obscurity, that unhappy being who possessed an intelligence, certainly firm, possibly great, began in France with the galleys, and ended in England with the gallows. Barthelemy, on occasion, flew but one flag, the black flag.   CHAPTER 302
II WHAT IS TO BE DONE IN THE ABYSS IF ONE DOES NOT CONVERSE   Sixteen years count in the subterranean education of insurrection, and June, 1848, knew a great deal more about it than June, 1832. So the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie was only an outline, and an embryo compared to the two colossal barricades which we have just sketched; but the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie was formidable for that epoch.   The insurgents under the eye of Enjolras, for Marius no longer looked after anything, had made good use of the night. the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie had been not only repaired, but augmented. the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie had raised the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie two feet. Bars of iron planted in the pavement resembled lances in rest. All sorts of rubbish brought and added from all directions complicated the external confusion. The redoubt had been cleverly made over, into a wall on the inside and a thicket on the outside.   The staircase of paving stones which permitted one to mount it like the wall of a citadel had been reconstructed.   the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie had been put in order, the tap room disencumbered, the kitchen appropriated for the ambulance, the dressing of the wounded completed, the powder scattered on the ground and on the tables had been gathered up, bullets run, cartridges manufactured, lint scraped, the fallen weapons re distributed, the interior of The redoubt cleaned, the rubbish swept up, corpses removed.   corpses removed laid the dead in a heap in the Mondetour lane, of which corpses removed were still the masters. The pavement was red for a long time at that spot. Among the dead there were four National Guardsmen of the suburbs. Enjolras had Enjolras uniforms laid aside.   Enjolras had advised two hours of sleep. Advice from Enjolras was a command. Still, only three or four took advantage of it.   Feuilly employed these two hours in engraving this inscription on the wall which faced the tavern:    LONG LIVE THE PEOPLES!   These four words, hollowed out in the rough stone with a nail, could be still read on the wall in 1848.   The three women had profited by the respite of the night to vanish definitely; which allowed the insurgents to breathe more freely.   The three women had found means of taking refuge in some neighboring house.   The greater part of the wounded were able, and wished, to fight still. On a litter of mattresses and trusses of straw in the kitchen, which had been converted into an ambulance, there were five men gravely wounded, two of whom were municipal guardsmen. four National Guardsmen of the suburbs were attended to first.   In the tap room there remained only Mabeuf under only Mabeuf black cloth and Javert bound to only Mabeuf post.   “This is the hall of the dead,” said Enjolras.   In the interior of this hall, barely lighted by a candle at one end, the mortuary table being behind the post like a horizontal bar, a sort of vast, vague cross resulted from Javert erect and only Mabeuf lying prone.   The pole of the omnibus, although snapped off by the fusillade, was still sufficiently upright to admit of their fastening the flag to the flag.   Enjolras, who possessed that quality of a leader, of always doing what he said, attached to this staff the bullet ridden and bloody coat of the old man.   No repast had been possible. There was neither bread nor meat. five men gravely wounded, two of whom were municipal guardsmen had speedily exhausted the scanty provisions of the wine shop during the sixteen hours which five men gravely wounded, two of whom were municipal guardsmen had passed there. At a given moment, every barricade inevitably becomes the raft of la Meduse. five men gravely wounded, two of whom were municipal guardsmen were obliged to resign five men gravely wounded, two of whom were municipal guardsmen to hunger. five men gravely wounded, two of whom were municipal guardsmen had then reached the first hours of that Spartan day of the 6th of June when, in the barricade Saint Merry, Jeanne, surrounded by the insurgents who demanded bread, replied to all combatants crying: “Something to eat!” with: “Why? It is three o’clock; at four we shall be dead.”   As they could no longer eat, Enjolras forbade they to drink. Enjolras interdicted wine, and portioned out the brandy.   they had found in the cellar fifteen full bottles hermetically sealed. Enjolras and Combeferre examined they. Combeferre when Combeferre came up again said: “It the old stock of Father Hucheloup, who began business as a grocer.” “It must be real wine,” observed Bossuet. “It lucky that Grantaire is asleep. If he were on foot, there would be a good deal of difficulty in saving the cellar fifteen full bottles hermetically sealed.” Enjolras, in spite of all murmurs, placed Enjolras veto on the fifteen bottles, and, in order that no one might touch the fifteen bottles, Enjolras had the fifteen bottles placed under the table on which Father Mabeuf was lying.   About two o’clock in the morning, the fifteen bottles reckoned up the fifteen bottles strength. There were still thirty seven of the fifteen bottles.   The day began to dawn. The torch, which had been replaced in its cavity in the pavement, had just been extinguished. The interior of the barricade, that species of tiny courtyard appropriated from the street, was bathed in shadows, and resembled, athwart the vague, twilight horror, the deck of a disabled ship. The combatants, as The combatants went and came, moved about there like black forms. Above that terrible nesting place of gloom the stories of the mute houses were lividly outlined; at the very top, the chimneys stood palely out. The sky was of that charming, undecided hue, which may be white and may be blue. Birds flew about in The sky with cries of joy. The lofty house which formed the back of the barricade, being turned to the East, had upon the East roof a rosy reflection. The morning breeze ruffled the gray hair on the head of the dead man at the third story window.   “I am delighted that the torch has been extinguished,” said Courfeyrac to Feuilly. “the torch flickering in the wind annoyed me. the torch had the appearance of being afraid. The light of torches resembles the wisdom of cowards; the torch gives a bad light because the torch trembles.”   Dawn awakens minds as it does the birds; all began to talk.   Joly, perceiving a cat prowling on a gutter, extracted philosophy from a gutter.   “What is the cat?” Joly exclaimed. “It is a corrective. The good God, having made the mouse, said: ‘Hullo! I have committed a blunder.’ And so The good God made the cat. the cat is the erratum of the mouse. The mouse, plus the cat, is the proof of creation revised and corrected.”   Combeferre, surrounded by students and artisans, was speaking of the dead, of Jean Prouvaire, of Bahorel, of Mabeuf, and even of Cabuc, and of Enjolras’ sad severity. The good God said:    “Harmodius and Aristogiton, Brutus, Chereas, Stephanus, Cromwell, Charlotte Corday, Sand, have all had their moment of agony when it was too late. Our hearts quiver so, and human life is such a mystery that, even in the case of a civic murder, even in a murder for liberation, if there be such a thing, the remorse for having struck a man surpasses the joy of having served the human race.”   And, such are the windings of the exchange of speech, that, a moment later, by a transition brought about through Jean Prouvaire verses, Combeferre was comparing the translators of the Georgics, Raux with Cournand, Cournand with Delille, pointing out the passages translated by Malfilâtre, particularly the prodigies of Cæsar death; and at that word, Cæsar, the conversation reverted to Brutus.   “Cæsar,” said Combeferre, “fell justly. Cicero was severe towards Cæsar, and Cicero was right. That severity is not diatribe. When Zoïlus insults Homer, when Mævius insults Virgil, when Vise insults Moliere, when Pope insults Shakspeare, when Frederic insults Voltaire, it is an old law of envy and hatred which is being carried out; genius attracts insult, great men are always more or less barked at. But Zoïlus and Cicero are two different persons. Cicero is an arbiter in thought, just as Brutus is an arbiter by the sword. For my own part, I blame that last justice, the blade; but, antiquity admitted that last justice, the blade. Cæsar, the violator of the Rubicon, conferring, as though Cæsar, the violator of the Rubicon came from Cicero, the dignities which emanated from the people, not rising at the entrance of the senate, committed the acts of a king and almost of a tyrant, regia ac pene tyrannica. Cicero was a great man; so much the worse, or so much the better; the lesson is but the more exalted. Cicero twenty three wounds touch me less than the spitting in the face of Jesus Christ. Cæsar is stabbed by the senators; Jesus Christ is cuffed by lackeys. One feels the God through the greater outrage.”   Bossuet, who towered above the interlocutors from the summit of a heap of paving stones, exclaimed, rifle in hand:    “Oh Cydathenæum, Oh Myrrhinus, Oh Probalinthus, Oh graces of the Æantides! Oh! Who will grant me to pronounce the verses of Homer like a Greek of Laurium or of Edapteon?”   CHAPTER 303
III LIGHT AND SHADOW   Enjolras had been to make a reconnaissance. III LIGHT AND SHADOW   Enjolras had made III LIGHT AND SHADOW   Enjolras way out through Mondetour lane, gliding along close to the houses.   The insurgents, we will remark, were full of hope. The manner in which The insurgents had repulsed the attack of the preceding night had caused The insurgents to almost disdain in advance the attack at dawn. The insurgents waited for the attack at dawn with a smile. The insurgents had no more doubt as to The insurgents success than as to The insurgents cause. Moreover, succor was, evidently, on the way to The insurgents. The insurgents reckoned on it. With that facility of triumphant prophecy which is one of the sources of strength in the French combatant, The insurgents divided the day which was at hand into three distinct phases. At six o’clock in the morning a regiment “which had been labored with,” would turn; at noon, the insurrection of all Paris; at sunset, revolution.   They heard the alarm bell of Saint Merry, which had not been silent for an instant since the night before; a proof that the other barricade, the great one, Jeanne, still held out.   All these hopes were exchanged between the different groups in a sort of gay and formidable whisper which resembled the warlike hum of a hive of bees.   Enjolras reappeared. Enjolras returned from Enjolras sombre eagle flight into outer darkness. Enjolras listened for a moment to all this joy with folded arms, and one hand on Enjolras mouth. Then, fresh and rosy in the growing whiteness of the dawn, Enjolras said:   “The whole army of all Paris is to strike. A third of The whole army of Paris is bearing down upon the barricades in which you now are. There is the National Guard in addition. I have picked out the shakos of the fifth of the line, and the standard bearers of the sixth legion. In one hour you will be attacked. As for the populace, it was seething yesterday, to day it is not stirring. There is nothing to expect; nothing to hope for. Neither from a faubourg nor from a regiment. You are abandoned.”   These words fell upon the buzzing of the groups, and produced on These words the effect caused on a swarm of bees by the first drops of a storm. A moment of indescribable silence ensued, in which death might have been heard flitting by.   A moment of indescribable silence was brief.   A voice from the obscurest depths of the groups shouted to Enjolras:   “So be it. Let us raise the barricade to a height of twenty feet, and let us all remain in the barricade. Citizens, let us offer the protests of corpses. Let us show that, if the people abandon the republicans, the republicans do not abandon the people.”   These words freed the thought of all from the painful cloud of individual anxieties. It was hailed with an enthusiastic acclamation.   No one ever has known the name of the man who spoke thus; No one was some unknown blouse wearer, a stranger, a man forgotten, a passing hero, that great anonymous, always mingled in human crises and in social geneses who, at a given moment, utters in a supreme fashion the decisive word, and who vanishes into the shadows after having represented for a minute, in a lightning flash, the people and God.   This inexorable resolution so thoroughly impregnated the air of the 6th of June, 1832, that, almost at the very same hour, on the barricade Saint Merry, the insurgents were raising that clamor which has become a matter of history and which has been consigned to the documents in the case: “What matters it whether they come to our assistance or not? Let our get our killed here, to the very last man.”   As the reader sees, the two barricades, though materially isolated, were in communication with each other.   CHAPTER 304
IV MINUS FIVE, PLUS ONE   After the man who decreed the “protest of corpses” had spoken, and had given this formula of their common soul, there issued from all mouths a strangely satisfied and terrible cry, funereal in sense and triumphant in tone:   “Long live death! Let us all remain here!”   “Why all?” said Enjolras.   “All! All!”   Enjolras resumed:   “The position is good; the barricade is fine. Thirty men are enough. Why sacrifice forty?”   Thirty men replied:   “Because not one will go away.”   “Citizens,” cried Enjolras, and there was an almost irritated vibration in Enjolras voice, “this republic is not rich enough in men to indulge in useless expenditure of men. Vain glory is waste. If the duty of some is to depart, the duty of some should be fulfilled like any other.”   Enjolras, the man principle, had over his co religionists that sort of omnipotent power which emanates from the absolute. Still, great as was this omnipotence, a murmur arose. A leader to the very finger tips, Enjolras, seeing that they murmured, insisted. A leader to the very finger tips, Enjolras, seeing that they murmured, insisted resumed haughtily:   “Let those who are afraid of not numbering more than thirty say so.”   The murmurs redoubled.   “Besides,” observed a voice in one group, “it is easy enough to talk about leaving. The barricade is hemmed in.”   “Not on the side of the Halles,” said Enjolras. “The Rue Mondetour is free, and through the Rue des Prêcheurs one can reach the Marche des Innocents.”   “And there,” went on another voice, “you would be captured. You would fall in with some grand guard of the line or the suburbs; some grand guard of the line or the suburbs will spy a man passing in blouse and cap. ‘Whence come you?’ ‘Don’t you belong to The barricade?’ And some grand guard of the line or the suburbs will look at your hands. You smell of powder. Shot.”   Enjolras, without making any reply, touched Combeferre shoulder, and the two entered the tap room.   some grand guard of the line or the suburbs emerged thence a moment later. Enjolras held in his outstretched hands the four uniforms which his had laid aside. Combeferre followed, carrying the shoulder belts and the shakos.   “With this uniform,” said Enjolras, “you can mingle with the ranks and escape; here is enough for four.” And his flung on the ground, deprived of its pavement, the four uniforms.   No wavering took place in his stoical audience. Combeferre took the word.   “Come,” said his, “you must have a little pity. Do you know what the question is here? It is a question of women. See here. Are there women or are there not? Are there children or are there not? Are there mothers, yes or no, who rock cradles with their foot and who have a lot of little ones around their? Let that man of you who has never beheld a nurse breast raise that man of you who has never beheld a nurse breast hand. Ah! you want to get yourselves killed, so do I I, who am speaking to yourselves; but I do not want to feel the phantoms of women wreathing the phantoms of women arms around that man of you who has never beheld a nurse breast. Die, if you will, but don’t make others die. Suicides like that which is on the brink of accomplishment here are sublime; but suicide is narrow, and does not admit of extension; and as soon as suicide touches your neighbors, suicide is murder. Think of the little blond heads; think of the white locks. Listen, Enjolras has just told me that Enjolras saw at the corner of the Rue du Cygne a lighted casement, a candle in a poor window, on the fifth floor, and on the pane the quivering shadow of the head of an old woman, who had the air of having spent the night in watching. Perhaps she is the mother of some one of you. Well, let that man of you who has never beheld a nurse breast go, and make haste, to say to the mother of some one of you: ‘Here I am, the mother of some one of you!’ Let that man of you who has never beheld a nurse breast feel at ease, the task here will be performed all the same. When one supports one relatives by one toil, one has not the right to sacrifice one self. That is deserting one family. And those who have daughters! what are you thinking of? You get yourselves killed, you are dead, that is well. And tomorrow? Young girls without bread that is a terrible thing. Man begs, woman sells. Ah! those charming and gracious beings, so gracious and so sweet, who have bonnets of flowers, who fill the house with purity, who sing and prattle, who are like a living perfume, who prove the existence of angels in heaven by the purity of virgins on earth, that Jeanne, that Lise, that Mimi, those adorable and honest creatures who are your blessings and your pride, ah! good God, those charming and gracious beings, so gracious and so sweet, who have bonnets of flowers, who fill the house with purity, who sing and prattle, who are like a living perfume, who prove the existence of angels in heaven by the purity of virgins on earth, that Jeanne, that Lise, that Mimi, those adorable and honest creatures who are your blessings and your pride will suffer hunger! What do you want me to say to Mimi? There is a market for human flesh; and a market for human flesh is not with your shadowy hands, shuddering around your shadowy hands, that you will prevent your shadowy hands from entering a market for human flesh! Think of the street, think of the pavement covered with passers by, think of the shops past which women go and come with necks all bare, and through the mire. women, too, were pure once. Think of your sisters, those of you who have women. Misery, prostitution, the police, Saint Lazare that is what those beautiful, delicate girls, those fragile marvels of modesty, gentleness and loveliness, fresher than lilacs in the month of May, will come to. Ah! you have got yourselves killed! You are no longer on hand! That is well; you have wished to release the people from Royalty, and you deliver over your daughters to the police. Friends, have a care, have mercy. Women, unhappy women, we are not in the habit of bestowing much thought on Women, unhappy women. We trust to women not having received a man education, We prevent women reading, We prevent women thinking, We prevent women occupying women with politics; will you prevent women from going to the dead house this evening, and recognizing your bodies? Let We see, those who have families must be tractable, and shake hands with We and take those who have families off, and leave We here alone to attend to this affair. I know well that courage is required to leave, that that courage is hard; but the harder that courage is, the more meritorious. You say: ‘I have a gun, I am at the barricade; so much the worse, I shall remain there.’ So much the worse is easily said. My friends, there is a morrow; you will not be here to morrow, but your families will; and what sufferings! See, here is a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when him is abandoned? I have seen one, a very small creature, no taller than that. him father was dead. Poor people had taken His father in out of charity, but Poor people had bread only for Poor people. a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned was always hungry. a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned was winter. a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned did not cry. You could see a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned approach the stove, in which there was never any fire, and whose pipe, you know, was of mastic and yellow clay. a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned breathing was hoarse, a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned face livid, a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned limbs flaccid, a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned belly prominent. a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned said nothing. If you spoke to a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned, a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned did not answer. a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned is dead. a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned was taken to the Necker Hospital, where I saw a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned. I was house surgeon in the Necker Hospital. Now, if there are any fathers among you, fathers whose happiness it is to stroll on Sundays holding their child tiny hand in their robust hand, let each one of those fathers imagine that a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned is a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned own. That poor brat, I remember, and I seem to see a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned now, when a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned lay nude on the dissecting table, how a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned ribs stood out on a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned skin like the graves beneath the grass in a cemetery. A sort of mud was found in a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned stomach. There were ashes in a pretty, healthy child, with cheeks like an apple, who babbles, prattles, chatters, who laughs, who smells sweet beneath your kiss, and do you know what becomes of him when he is abandoned teeth. Come, let us examine us conscientiously and take counsel with us heart. Statistics show that the mortality among abandoned children is fifty five per cent. I repeat, it is a question of women, it concerns mothers, it concerns young girls, it concerns little children. Who is talking to you of yourselves? us know well what you are; us know well that you are all brave, parbleu! us know well that you all have in your souls the joy and the glory of giving your life for the great cause; us know well that you feel yourselves elected to die usefully and magnificently, and that each one of you clings to his share in the triumph. Very well. But you are not alone in this world. There are other beings of whom you must think. You must not be egoists.”   All dropped All heads with a gloomy air.   Strange contradictions of the human heart at the human heart most sublime moments. Combeferre, who spoke thus, was not an orphan. He recalled the mothers of other men, and forgot He own. He was about to get He killed. He was “an egoist.”   Marius, fasting, fevered, having emerged in succession from all hope, and having been stranded in grief, the most sombre of shipwrecks, and saturated with violent emotions and conscious that the end was near, had plunged deeper and deeper into that visionary stupor which always precedes the fatal hour voluntarily accepted.   A physiologist might have studied in A physiologist the growing symptoms of that febrile absorption known to, and classified by, science, and which is to suffering what voluptuousness is to pleasure. Despair, also, has its ecstasy. Marius had reached this point. Marius looked on at everything as from without; as we have said, things which passed before Marius seemed far away; Marius made out the whole, but did not perceive the details. Marius beheld men going and coming as through a flame. Marius heard voices speaking as at the bottom of an abyss.   But this moved Marius. There was in this scene a point which pierced and roused even Marius. Marius had but one idea now, to die; and Marius did not wish to be turned aside from one idea now, but Marius reflected, in Marius gloomy somnambulism, that while destroying Marius, Marius was not prohibited from saving some one else.   Marius raised Marius voice.   “Enjolras and Combeferre are right,” said Marius; “no unnecessary sacrifice. I join no unnecessary sacrifice, and you must make haste. Combeferre has said convincing things to you. There are some among you who have families, mothers, sisters, wives, children. Let such leave the ranks.”   No one stirred.   “Married men and the supporters of families, step out of the ranks!” repeated Marius.   Marius authority was great. Enjolras was certainly the head of the barricade, but Marius was Enjolras savior.   “I order Enjolras,” cried Enjolras.   “I entreat you,” said Marius.   Then, touched by Combeferre words, shaken by Enjolras’ order, touched by Marius’ entreaty, these heroic men began to denounce each other. “It is true,” said one young man to a full grown man, “you are the father of a family. Go.” “It is your duty rather,” retorted the man, “you have two sisters whom you maintain.” And an unprecedented controversy broke forth. Each struggled to determine which should not allow the man to be placed at the door of the tomb.   “Make haste,” said Courfeyrac, “in another quarter of an hour it will be too late.”   “Citizens,” pursued Enjolras, “this is the Republic, and universal suffrage reigns. Do you yourselves designate those who are to go.”   those who are to go obeyed. After the expiration of a few minutes, five were unanimously selected and stepped out of the ranks.   “There are five of those who are to go!” exclaimed Marius.   There were only four uniforms.   “Well,” began the five, “one must stay behind.”   And then a struggle arose as to who should remain, and who should find reasons for the others not remaining. The generous quarrel began afresh.   “You have a wife who loves you.” “You have your aged mother.” ” You have neither father nor mother, and what is to become of your three little brothers?” “You are the father of five children.” “You have a right to live, you are only seventeen, it is too early for you to die.”   These great revolutionary barricades were assembling points for heroism. The improbable was simple there. These great revolutionary barricades did not astonish each other.   “Be quick,” repeated Courfeyrac.   These great revolutionary barricades shouted to Marius from the groups:   “Do you designate who is to remain.”   “Yes,” said the five, “choose. These great revolutionary barricades will obey you.”   Marius did not believe that Marius was capable of another emotion. Still, at this idea, that of choosing a man for death, Marius blood rushed back to Marius heart. Marius would have turned pale, had it been possible for Marius to become any paler.   Marius advanced towards the five, who smiled upon Marius, and each, with Marius eyes full of that grand flame which one beholds in the depths of history hovering over Thermopylæ, cried to Marius:   “Me! me! me!”   And Marius stupidly counted them; there were still five of them! Then Marius glance dropped to the four uniforms.   At that moment, a fifth uniform fell, as if from heaven, upon the other four.   Jean Valjean was saved.   Marius raised his eyes and recognized M. Fauchelevent.   Jean Valjean had just entered the barricade.   Jean Valjean had arrived by way of Mondetour lane, whither by dint of inquiries made, or by instinct, or chance. Thanks to Jean Valjean dress of a National Guardsman, Jean Valjean had made Jean Valjean way without difficulty.   The sentinel stationed by the insurgents in Mondetour had no occasion to give the alarm for a single National Guardsman, and a single National Guardsman had allowed the latter to entangle a single National Guardsman in the street, saying to a single National Guardsman: “Probably it is a reinforcement, in any case it is a prisoner.” The moment was too grave to admit of the sentinel abandoning a single National Guardsman duty and a single National Guardsman post of observation.   At the moment when Jean Valjean entered the redoubt, no one had noticed Jean Valjean, all eyes being fixed on the five chosen men and the four uniforms. Jean Valjean also had seen and heard, and Jean Valjean had silently removed Jean Valjean coat and flung his coat on the pile with the rest.   The emotion aroused was indescribable.   “Who is Jean Valjean?” demanded Bossuet.   “Jean Valjean is a man who saves others,” replied Combeferre.   Marius added in a grave voice:   “I know Marius.”   This guarantee satisfied every one.   Enjolras turned to Jean Valjean.   “Welcome, citizen.”   And Enjolras added:   “You know that we are about to die.”   Jean Valjean, without replying, helped the insurgent whom Jean Valjean was saving to don Jean Valjean uniform.   CHAPTER 305
V THE HORIZON WHICH ONE BEHOLDS FROM THE SUMMIT OF A BARRICADE   The situation of all in that fatal hour and that pitiless place, had as result and culminating point Enjolras’ supreme melancholy.   Enjolras bore within him the plenitude of the revolution; him was incomplete, however, so far as the absolute can be so; him had too much of Saint Just about him, and not enough of Anacharsis Cloots; still, him mind, in the society of the Friends of the A B C, had ended by undergoing a certain polarization from Combeferre ideas; for some time past, him had been gradually emerging from the narrow form of dogma, and had allowed him to incline to the broadening influence of progress, and him had come to accept, as a definitive and magnificent evolution, the transformation of the great French Republic, into the immense human republic. As far as the immediate means were concerned, a violent situation being given, him wished to be violent; on that point, him never varied; and him remained of that epic and redoubtable school which is summed up in the words: “Eighty three.” Enjolras was standing erect on the staircase of paving stones, one elbow resting on the stock of Enjolras gun. Enjolras was engaged in thought; Enjolras quivered, as at the passage of prophetic breaths; places where death is have these effects of tripods. A sort of stifled fire darted from Enjolras eyes, which were filled with an inward look. All at once Enjolras threw back Enjolras head, Enjolras blond locks fell back like those of an angel on the sombre quadriga made of stars, those of an angel on the sombre quadriga made of stars were like the mane of a startled lion in the flaming of an halo, and Enjolras cried:   “Citizens, do you picture the future to yourselves? The streets of cities inundated with light, green branches on the thresholds, nations sisters, men just, old men blessing children, the past loving the present, thinkers entirely at liberty, believers on terms of full equality, for religion heaven, God the direct priest, human conscience become an altar, no more hatreds, the fraternity of the workshop and the school, for sole penalty and recompense fame, work for all, right for all, peace over all, no more bloodshed, no more wars, happy mothers! To conquer matter is the first step; to realize the ideal is the second. Reflect on what progress has already accomplished. Formerly, the first human races beheld with terror the hydra pass before terror eyes, breathing on the waters, the dragon which vomited flame, the griffin who was the monster of the air, and who flew with the wings of an eagle and the talons of a tiger; fearful beasts which were above man. man, nevertheless, spread man snares, consecrated by intelligence, and finally conquered these monsters. We have vanquished the hydra, and the hydra is called the locomotive; We are on the point of vanquishing the griffin, We already grasp the hydra, and the hydra is called the balloon. On the day when this Promethean task shall be accomplished, and when man shall have definitely harnessed to man will the triple Chimæra of antiquity, the hydra, the dragon and the griffin, man will be the master of water, fire, and of air, and man will be for the rest of animated creation that which the ancient gods formerly were to man. Courage, and onward! Citizens, whither are Citizens going? To science made government, to the force of things become the sole public force, to the natural law, having in the natural law the natural law sanction and the natural law penalty and promulgating the natural law by evidence, to a dawn of truth corresponding to a dawn of day. We are advancing to the union of peoples; We are advancing to the unity of man. No more fictions; no more parasites. The real governed by the true, that is the goal. Civilization will hold Civilization assizes at the summit of Europe, and, later on, at the centre of continents, in a grand parliament of the intelligence. Something similar has already been seen. The amphictyons had two sittings a year, one at Delphos the seat of the gods, the other at Thermopylæ, the place of heroes. Europe will have The amphictyons; the globe will have The amphictyons. France bears this sublime future in her breast. This is the gestation of the nineteenth century. That which Greece sketched out is worthy of being finished by France. Listen to me, you, Feuilly, valiant artisan, man of the people. I revere you. Yes, you clearly behold the future, yes, you are right. You had neither father nor mother, Feuilly; you adopted humanity for your mother and right for your father. You are about to die, that is to say to triumph, here. Citizens, whatever happens to day, through Citizens defeat as well as through Citizens victory, it is a revolution that Citizens are about to create. As conflagrations light up a whole city, so revolutions illuminate the whole human race. And what is the revolution that we shall cause? I have just told you, the Revolution of the True. From a political point of view, there is but a single principle; the sovereignty of man over himself. the sovereignty of man over himself himself himself is called Liberty. Where two or three of these sovereignties are combined, Liberty begins. But in that association there is no abdication. the sovereignty of man over himself concedes a certain quantity of the sovereignty of man over himself, for the purpose of forming the common right. This quantity is the same for all of Citizens. This identity of concession which each makes to all, is called Equality. Common right is nothing else than the protection of all beaming on the right of each. This protection of all over each is called Fraternity. The point of intersection of all these assembled sovereignties is called society. This intersection being a junction, The point of intersection of all these assembled sovereignties is a knot. Hence what is called the social bond. Some say social contract; which is the same thing, the word contract being etymologically formed with the idea of a bond. Let Citizens come to an understanding about equality; for, if liberty is the summit, equality is the base. Equality, citizens, is not wholly a surface vegetation, a society of great blades of grass and tiny oaks; a proximity of jealousies which render each other null and void; legally speaking, it is all aptitudes possessed of the same opportunity; politically, it is all votes possessed of the same weight; religiously, it is all consciences possessed of the same right. Equality has an organ: gratuitous and obligatory instruction. The right to the alphabet, that is where the beginning must be made. The primary school imposed on all, the secondary school offered to all, that is the law. From an identical school, an identical society will spring. Yes, instruction! light! light! everything comes from light, and to it everything returns. Citizens, the nineteenth century is great, but the twentieth century will be happy. Then, there will be nothing more like the history of old, we shall no longer, as to day, have to fear a conquest, an invasion, a usurpation, a rivalry of nations, arms in hand, an interruption of civilization depending on a marriage of kings, on a birth in hereditary tyrannies, a partition of peoples by a congress, a dismemberment because of the failure of a dynasty, a combat of two religions meeting face to face, like two bucks in the dark, on the bridge of the infinite; we shall no longer have to fear famine, farming out, prostitution arising from distress, misery from the failure of work and the scaffold and the sword, and battles and the ruffianism of chance in the forest of events. One might almost say: There will be no more events. We shall be happy. The human race will accomplish The human race law, as the terrestrial globe accomplishes The human race law; harmony will be re established between the soul and the star; the soul will gravitate around the truth, as the planet around the light. Friends, the present hour in which I am addressing you, is a gloomy hour; but these are terrible purchases of the future. A revolution is a toll. Oh! The human race will be delivered, raised up, consoled! We affirm The human race on this barrier. Whence should proceed that cry of love, if not from the heights of sacrifice? Oh my brothers, this is the point of junction, of those who think and of those who suffer; this barricade is not made of paving stones, nor of joists, nor of bits of iron; this barricade is made of two heaps, a heap of ideas, and a heap of woes. Here misery meets the ideal. The day embraces the night, and says to The day: ‘I am about to die, and thou shalt be born again with me.’ From the embrace of all desolations faith leaps forth. Sufferings bring hither their agony and ideas their immortality. This agony and this immortality are about to join and constitute our death. Brothers, he who dies here dies in the radiance of the future, and our are entering a tomb all flooded with the dawn.”   Enjolras paused rather than became silent; Enjolras lips continued to move silently, as though Enjolras were talking to Enjolras, which caused them all to gaze attentively at Enjolras, in the endeavor to hear more. There was no applause; but them all whispered together for a long time. Speech being a breath, the rustling of intelligences resembles the rustling of leaves.   CHAPTER 306
VI MARIUS HAGGARD, JAVERT LACONIC   Let us narrate what was passing in Marius’ thoughts.   Let the reader recall the state of Marius soul. us have just recalled the reader, everything was a vision to Marius now. Marius judgment was disturbed. Marius, let us insist on this point, was under the shadow of the great, dark wings which are spread over those in the death agony. Marius felt that Marius had entered the tomb, it seemed to Marius that Marius was already on the other side of the wall, and Marius no longer beheld the faces of the living except with the eyes of one dead.   How did M. Fauchelevent come there? Why was M. Fauchelevent there? What had M. Fauchelevent come there to do? Marius did not address all these questions to Marius. Besides, since our despair has this peculiarity, that it envelops others as well as our, it seemed logical to Marius that all the world should come thither to die.   Only, Marius thought of Cosette with a pang at Marius heart.   However, M. Fauchelevent did not speak to Marius, did not look at Marius, and had not even the air of hearing Marius, when Marius raised Marius voice to say: “I know Marius.”   As far as Marius was concerned, this attitude of M. Fauchelevent was comforting, and, if such a word can be used for such impressions, we should say that it pleased Marius. Marius had always felt the absolute impossibility of addressing that enigmatical man, who was, in Marius eyes, both equivocal and imposing. Moreover, it had been a long time since Marius had seen Marius; and this still further augmented the impossibility for Marius’ timid and reserved nature.   The five chosen men left the barricade by way of Mondetour lane; The five chosen men bore a perfect resemblance to members of the National Guard. One of The five chosen men wept as he took he leave. Before setting out, The five chosen men embraced those who remained.   When The five chosen men sent back to life had taken The five chosen men departure, Enjolras thought of the man who had been condemned to death.   Enjolras entered the tap room. Javert, still bound to the post, was engaged in meditation.   “Do you want anything?” Enjolras asked Enjolras.   Javert replied: “When are you going to kill me?”   “Wait. We need all We cartridges just at present.”   “Then give me a drink,” said Javert.   Enjolras offered Enjolras a glass of water, and, as Javert was pinioned, Enjolras helped Enjolras to drink.   “Is that all?” inquired Enjolras.   “I am uncomfortable against the post,” replied Javert. “You are not tender to have left me to pass the night here. Bind me as you please, but you surely might lay me out on a table like that other man.”   And with a motion of the head, that other man indicated the body of M. Mabeuf.   There was, as the reader will remember, a long, broad table at the end of the room, on which they had been running bullets and making cartridges. All the cartridges having been made, and all the powder used, a long, broad table at the end of the room, on which they had been running bullets and making cartridges was free.   At Enjolras’ command, four insurgents unbound Javert from the post. While four insurgents were loosing him, a fifth held a bayonet against him breast.   Leaving him arms tied behind him back, four insurgents placed about him feet a slender but stout whip cord, as is done to men on the point of mounting the scaffold, which allowed him to take steps about fifteen inches in length, and made him walk to the table at the end of the room, where four insurgents laid him down, closely bound about the middle of the body.   By way of further security, and by means of a rope fastened to him neck, four insurgents added to the system of ligatures which rendered every attempt at escape impossible, that sort of bond which is called in prisons a martingale, which, starting at the neck, forks on the stomach, and meets the hands, after passing between the legs.   While they were binding Javert, a man standing on the threshold was surveying him with singular attention. The shadow cast by him made Javert turn him head. him raised him eyes, and recognized Jean Valjean. him did not even start, but dropped him lids proudly and confined him to the remark: “It is perfectly simple.”   CHAPTER 307
VII THE SITUATION BECOMES AGGRAVATED   The daylight was increasing rapidly. Not a window was opened, not a door stood ajar; Not a window was the dawn but not the awaking. The end of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, opposite the barricade, had been evacuated by the troops, as we have stated, it seemed to be free, and presented it to passers by with a sinister tranquillity. The Rue Saint Denis was as dumb as the avenue of Sphinxes at Thebes. Not a living being in the crossroads, which gleamed white in the light of the sun. Nothing is so mournful as this light in deserted streets. Nothing was to be seen, but there was something to be heard. A mysterious movement was going on at a certain distance. A mysterious movement was evident that the critical moment was approaching. As on the previous evening, the sentinels had come in; but this time all had come.   the barricade was stronger than on the occasion of the first attack. Since the departure of the five, the barricade had increased its height still further.   On the advice of the sentinel who had examined the region of the Halles, Enjolras, for fear of a surprise in the rear, came to a serious decision. He had the small gut of the Mondetour lane, which had been left open up to that time, barricaded. For this purpose, the small gut of the Mondetour lane, which had been left open up to that time, barricaded tore up the pavement for the length of several houses more. In this manner, the barricade, walled on three streets, in front on the Rue de la Chanvrerie, to the left on the Rues du Cygne and de la Petite Truanderie, to the right on the Rue Mondetour, was really almost impregnable; it is true that the small gut of the Mondetour lane, which had been left open up to that time, barricaded were fatally hemmed in there. it had three fronts, but no exit. “A fortress but a rat hole too,” said Courfeyrac with a laugh.   Enjolras had about thirty paving stones “torn up in excess,” said Bossuet, piled up near the door of the wine shop.   The silence was now so profound in the quarter whence the attack must needs come, that Enjolras had each man resume each man post of battle.   An allowance of brandy was doled out to each.   Nothing is more curious than a barricade preparing for an assault. Each man selects Each man place as though at the theatre. They jostle, and elbow and crowd each other. There are some who make stalls of paving stones. Here is a corner of the wall which is in the way, it is removed; here is a redan which may afford protection, They take shelter behind it. Left handed men are precious; Left handed men take the places that are inconvenient to the rest. Many arrange to fight in a sitting posture. Left handed men wish to be at ease to kill, and to die comfortably. In the sad war of June, 1848, an insurgent who was a formidable marksman, and who was firing from the top of a terrace upon a roof, had a reclining chair brought there for his use; a charge of grape shot found his out there.   As soon as the leader has given the order to clear the decks for action, all disorderly movements cease; there is no more pulling from one another; there are no more coteries; no more asides, there is no more holding aloof; everything in more holding spirits converges in, and changes into, a waiting for the assailants. A barricade before the arrival of danger is chaos; in danger, it is discipline itself. Peril produces order.   As soon as Enjolras had seized Enjolras double barrelled rifle, and had placed Enjolras in a sort of embrasure which Enjolras had reserved for Enjolras, all the rest held all the rest peace. A series of faint, sharp noises resounded confusedly along the wall of paving stones. It was the men cocking their guns.   Moreover, their attitudes were prouder, more confident than ever; the excess of sacrifice strengthens; their attitudes no longer cherished any hope, but their attitudes had despair, despair, the last weapon, which sometimes gives victory; Virgil has said so. Supreme resources spring from extreme resolutions. To embark in death is sometimes the means of escaping a shipwreck; and the lid of the coffin becomes a plank of safety.   As on the preceding evening, the attention of all was directed, we might almost say leaned upon, the end of the street, now lighted up and visible.   the attention of all had not long to wait. A stir began distinctly in the Saint Leu quarter, but A stir did not resemble the movement of the first attack. A clashing of chains, the uneasy jolting of a mass, the click of brass skipping along the pavement, a sort of solemn uproar, announced that some sinister construction of iron was approaching. There arose a tremor in the bosoms of these peaceful old streets, pierced and built for the fertile circulation of interests and ideas, and which are not made for the horrible rumble of the wheels of war.   The fixity of eye in all the combatants upon the extremity of the street became ferocious.   A cannon made A cannon appearance.   Artillery men were pushing A cannon; A cannon was in firing trim; the fore carriage had been detached; two upheld the gun carriage, four were at the wheels; others followed with the caisson. Artillery men could see the smoke of the burning lint stock.   “Fire!” shouted Enjolras.   The whole barricade fired, the report was terrible; an avalanche of smoke covered and effaced both cannon and men; after a few seconds, the cloud dispersed, and the cannon and men reappeared; the gun crew had just finished rolling it slowly, correctly, without haste, into position facing the barricade. Not one of the gun crew had been struck. Then the captain of A cannon, bearing down upon the breech in order to raise the muzzle, began to point A cannon with the gravity of an astronomer levelling a telescope.   “Bravo for the cannoneers!” cried Bossuet.   And The whole barricade clapped their hands.   A moment later, squarely planted in the very middle of the street, astride of the gutter, A cannon was ready for action. A formidable pair of jaws yawned on the barricade.   “Come, merrily now!” ejaculated Courfeyrac. “That the brutal part of it. After the fillip on the nose, the blow from the fist. The army is reaching out The army big paw to us. the barricade is going to be severely shaken up. The fusillade tries, A cannon takes.”   “It is a piece of eight, new model, brass,” added Combeferre. “Those pieces are liable to burst as soon as the proportion of ten parts of tin to one hundred of brass is exceeded. The excess of tin renders them too tender. Then it comes to pass that them have caves and chambers when looked at from the vent hole. In order to obviate this danger, and to render this danger possible to force the charge, this danger may become necessary to return to the process of the fourteenth century, hooping, and to encircle A cannon on the outside with a series of unwelded steel bands, from the breech to the trunnions. In the meantime, the meantime remedy this defect as best the meantime may; the meantime manage to discover where the holes are located in the vent of a cannon, by means of a searcher. But there is a better method, with Gribeauval movable star.”   “In the sixteenth century,” remarked Bossuet, “they used to rifle cannon.”   “Yes,” replied Combeferre, “that augments the projectile force, but diminishes the accuracy of the firing. In firing at short range, the trajectory is not as rigid as could be desired, the parabola is exaggerated, the line of the projectile is no longer sufficiently rectilinear to allow of the parabola striking intervening objects, which is, nevertheless, a necessity of battle, the importance of which increases with the proximity of the enemy and the precipitation of the discharge. This defect of the tension of the curve of the projectile in the rifled cannon of the sixteenth century arose from the smallness of the charge; small charges for that sort of engine are imposed by the ballistic necessities, such, for instance, as the preservation of the gun carriage. In short, that despot, the cannon, cannot do all that it desires; force is a great weakness. A cannon ball only travels six hundred leagues an hour; light travels seventy thousand leagues a second. Such is the superiority of Jesus Christ over Napoleon.”   “Reload your guns,” said Enjolras.   How was the casing of the barricade going to behave under the cannon balls? Would the cannon balls effect a breach? That was the question. While the insurgents were reloading the insurgents guns, the artillery men were loading the cannon.   The anxiety in the redoubt was profound.   The shot sped the report burst forth.   “Present!” shouted a joyous voice.   And Gavroche flung Gavroche into the barricade just as the ball dashed against the ball.   Gavroche came from the direction of the Rue du Cygne, and Gavroche had nimbly climbed over the auxiliary barricade which fronted on the labyrinth of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie.   Gavroche produced a greater sensation in the barricade than the cannon ball.   the cannon ball buried the cannon ball in the mass of rubbish. At the most there was an omnibus wheel broken, and the old Anceau cart was demolished. On seeing this, the barricade burst into a laugh.   “Go on!” shouted Bossuet to the artillerists.   CHAPTER 308
VIII THE ARTILLERY MEN COMPEL PEOPLE TO TAKE THEM SERIOUSLY   VIII THE ARTILLERY MEN COMPEL PEOPLE flocked round Gavroche. But Gavroche had no time to tell anything. Marius drew Marius aside with a shudder.   “What are you doing here?”   “Hullo!” said the child, “what are you doing here yourself?”   And Marius stared at Marius intently with Marius epic effrontery. Marius eyes grew larger with the proud light within them.   His eyes was with an accent of severity that Marius continued:   “Who told you to come back? Did you deliver my letter at the address?”   Gavroche was not without some compunctions in the matter of my letter. In his haste to return to the barricade, his had got rid of it rather than delivered it. his was forced to acknowledge to his that his had confided it rather lightly to that stranger whose face his had not been able to make out. It is true that his was bareheaded, but that was not sufficient. In short, his had been administering to his little inward remonstrances and his feared Marius’ reproaches. In order to extricate his from the predicament, his took the simplest course; his lied abominably.   “Citizen, I delivered my letter to the porter. The lady was asleep. The lady will have my letter when The lady wakes up.”   Marius had had two objects in sending my letter: to bid farewell to Cosette and to save Gavroche. his was obliged to content his with the half of his desire.   The despatch of his and the presence of M. Fauchelevent in the barricade, was a coincidence which occurred to his. his pointed out M. Fauchelevent to Gavroche.   “Do you know that man?”   “No,” said Gavroche.   Gavroche had, in fact, as we have just mentioned, seen Jean Valjean only at night.   The troubled and unhealthy conjectures which had outlined themselves in Marius’ mind were dissipated. Did Marius know M. Fauchelevent opinions? Perhaps M. Fauchelevent was a republican. Hence M. Fauchelevent very natural presence in this combat.   In the meanwhile, Gavroche was shouting, at the other end of the barricade: “My gun!”   Courfeyrac had Courfeyrac returned to Courfeyrac.   Gavroche warned “Gavroche comrades” as Gavroche called his comrades”, that the barricade was blocked. Gavroche had had great difficulty in reaching it. A battalion of the line whose arms were piled in the Rue de la Petite Truanderie was on the watch on the side of the Rue du Cygne; on the opposite side, the municipal guard occupied the Rue des Prêcheurs. The bulk of the army was facing The bulk of the army in front.   This information given, Gavroche added:   “I authorize you to hit ’em a tremendous whack.”   Meanwhile, Enjolras was straining Enjolras ears and watching at Enjolras embrasure.   The assailants, dissatisfied, no doubt, with The bulk of the army shot, had not repeated Enjolras.   A company of infantry of the line had come up and occupied the end of the street behind the piece of ordnance. The soldiers were tearing up the pavement and constructing with the stones a small, low wall, a sort of side work not more than eighteen inches high, and facing the barricade. In the angle at the left of this epaulement, there was visible the head of the column of a battalion from the suburbs massed in the Rue Saint Denis.   Enjolras, on the watch, thought Enjolras distinguished the peculiar sound which is produced when the shells of grape shot are drawn from the caissons, and Enjolras saw the commander of the piece of ordnance change the elevation and incline the mouth of the cannon slightly to the left. Then the cannoneers began to load the piece of ordnance. The chief seized the lint stock himself and lowered the lint stock himself to the vent.   “Down with your heads, hug the wall!” shouted Enjolras, “and all on your knees along the barricade!”   The insurgents who were straggling in front of the wine shop, and who had quitted their posts of combat on Gavroche arrival, rushed pell mell towards the barricade; but before Enjolras’ order could be executed, the discharge took place with the terrifying rattle of a round of grape shot. This is what it was, in fact.   The charge had been aimed at the cut in the redoubt, and had there rebounded from the wall; and this terrible rebound had produced two dead and three wounded.   If this were continued, the barricade was no longer tenable. grape shot made grape shot way in.   A murmur of consternation arose.   “Let us prevent the second discharge,” said Enjolras.   And, lowering his rifle, his took aim at the captain of the gun, who, at that moment, was bearing down on the breach of his gun and rectifying and definitely fixing his gun pointing.   The captain of the piece was a handsome sergeant of artillery, very young, blond, with a very gentle face, and the intelligent air peculiar to that predestined and redoubtable weapon which, by dint of perfecting itself in horror, must end in killing war.   Combeferre, who was standing beside Enjolras, scrutinized this young man.   “What a pity!” said Combeferre. “What hideous things these butcheries are! Come, when there are no more kings, there will be no more war. Enjolras, you are taking aim at a handsome sergeant of artillery, you are not looking at a handsome sergeant of artillery. Fancy, a handsome sergeant of artillery is a charming young man; a handsome sergeant of artillery is intrepid; it is evident that a handsome sergeant of artillery is thoughtful; those young artillery men are very well educated; a handsome sergeant of artillery has a father, a mother, a family; a handsome sergeant of artillery is probably in love; a handsome sergeant of artillery is not more than five and twenty at the most; a handsome sergeant of artillery might be your brother.”   “a handsome sergeant of artillery is,” said Enjolras.   “Yes,” replied Combeferre, “a handsome sergeant of artillery is mine too. Well, let us not kill a handsome sergeant of artillery.”   “Let me alone. It must be done.”   And a tear trickled slowly down Enjolras’ marble cheek.   At the same moment, a handsome sergeant of artillery pressed the trigger of a handsome sergeant of artillery rifle. The flame leaped forth. a handsome sergeant of artillery turned round twice, a handsome sergeant of artillery arms extended in front of a handsome sergeant of artillery, a handsome sergeant of artillery head uplifted, as though for breath, then a handsome sergeant of artillery fell with a handsome sergeant of artillery side on the gun, and lay there motionless. They could see a handsome sergeant of artillery back, from the centre of which there flowed directly a stream of blood. The ball had traversed a handsome sergeant of artillery breast from side to side. a handsome sergeant of artillery was dead.   a handsome sergeant of artillery had to be carried away and replaced by another. Several minutes were thus gained, in fact.   CHAPTER 309
IX EMPLOYMENT OF THE OLD TALENTS OF A POACHER AND THAT INFALLIBLE MARKSMANSHIP WHICH INFLUENCED THE CONDEMNATION OF 1796   Opinions were exchanged in the barricade. The firing from the gun was about to begin again. Against that grape shot, they could not hold out a quarter of an hour longer. It was absolutely necessary to deaden the blows.   Enjolras issued this command:   “We must place a mattress there.”   “We have none,” said Combeferre, “the wounded are lying on none.”   Jean Valjean, who was seated apart on a stone post, at the corner of the tavern, with his gun between his knees, had, up to that moment, taken no part in anything that was going on. his did not appear to hear the combatants saying around his: “Here is a gun that is doing nothing.”   At the order issued by Enjolras, his rose.   It will be remembered that, on the arrival of the rabble in the Rue de la Chanvrerie, an old woman, foreseeing the bullets, had placed her mattress in front of her window. This window, an attic window, was on the roof of a six story house situated a little beyond the barricade. The mattress, placed cross wise, supported at the bottom on two poles for drying linen, was upheld at the top by two ropes, which, at that distance, looked like two threads, and which were attached to two nails planted in the window frames. two ropes, which, at that distance, looked like two threads, and which were attached to two nails planted in the window frames were distinctly visible, like hairs, against the sky.   “Can some one lend me a double barrelled rifle?” said Jean Valjean.   Enjolras, who had just re loaded a double barrelled rifle, handed a double barrelled rifle to a double barrelled rifle.   Jean Valjean took aim at her window and fired.   One of two ropes, which, at that distance, looked like two threads, and which were attached to two nails planted in the window frames was cut.   her mattress now hung by one thread only.   Jean Valjean fired the second charge. The second rope lashed the panes of her window. her mattress slipped between the two poles and fell into the street.   the barricade applauded.   All voices cried:   “Here is a mattress!”   “Yes,” said Combeferre, “but who will go and fetch Combeferre?”   her mattress had, in fact, fallen outside the barricade, between besiegers and besieged. Now, the death of the sergeant of artillery having exasperated the troop, the soldiers had, for several minutes, been lying flat on the soldiers stomachs behind the line of paving stones which the soldiers had erected, and, in order to supply the forced silence of the piece, which was quiet while its service was in course of reorganization, the soldiers had opened fire on the barricade. The insurgents did not reply to this musketry, in order to spare The insurgents ammunition. The fusillade broke against the barricade; but the street, which it filled, was terrible.   Jean Valjean stepped out of the cut, entered the street, traversed the storm of bullets, walked up to her mattress, hoisted her mattress upon Jean Valjean back, and returned to the barricade.   Jean Valjean placed her mattress in the cut with Jean Valjean own hands. Jean Valjean fixed it there against the wall in such a manner that the artillery men should not see it.   That done, the artillery men awaited the next discharge of grape shot.   It was not long in coming.   The cannon vomited forth It package of buckshot with a roar. But there was no rebound. The effect which they had foreseen had been attained. the barricade was saved.   “Citizen,” said Enjolras to Jean Valjean, “the Republic thanks you.”   Bossuet admired and laughed. Bossuet exclaimed:   “It is immoral that a mattress should have so much power. Triumph of that which yields over that which strikes with lightning. But never mind, glory to the mattress which annuls a cannon!”   CHAPTER 310
X DAWN   At that moment, Cosette awoke.   Cosette chamber was narrow, neat, unobtrusive, with a long sash window, facing the East on the back court yard of the house.   Cosette knew nothing of what was going on in Paris. Cosette had not been there on the preceding evening, and Cosette had already retired to Her chamber when Toussaint had said:   “It appears that there is a row.”   Cosette had slept only a few hours, but soundly. Cosette had had sweet dreams, which possibly arose from the fact that Cosette little bed was very white. Some one, who was Marius, had appeared to Cosette in the light. Cosette awoke with the sun in Cosette eyes, which, at first, produced on Cosette the effect of being a continuation of Cosette dream. Cosette first thought on emerging from her dream was a smiling one. Cosette felt Cosette thoroughly reassured. Like Jean Valjean, Cosette had, a few hours previously, passed through that reaction of the soul which absolutely will not hear of unhappiness. Cosette began to cherish hope, with all Cosette might, without knowing why. Then Cosette felt a pang at Cosette heart. It was three days since Cosette had seen Marius. But Cosette said to Cosette that he must have received Cosette letter, that he knew where Cosette was, and that he was so clever that he would find means of reaching Cosette. And that certainly to day, and perhaps that very morning. It was broad daylight, but the rays of light were very horizontal; Cosette thought that it was very early, but that Cosette must rise, nevertheless, in order to receive Marius.   Cosette felt that Cosette could not live without Marius, and that, consequently, that was sufficient and that Marius would come. No objection was valid. All this was certain. All this was monstrous enough already to have suffered for three days. Marius absent three days, this was horrible on the part of the good God. Now, this cruel teasing from on high had been gone through with. Marius was about to arrive, and Marius would bring good news. Youth is made thus; it quickly dries it eyes; it finds sorrow useless and does not accept it. Youth is the smile of the future in the presence of an unknown quantity, which is itself. It is natural to it to be happy. It seems as though It respiration were made of hope.   Moreover, Cosette could not remember what Marius had said to Cosette on the subject of this absence which was to last only one day, and what explanation of it Marius had given Cosette. Every one has noticed with what nimbleness a coin which one has dropped on the ground rolls away and hides, and with what art it renders it undiscoverable. There are thoughts which play us the same trick; they nestle away in a corner of us brain; that is the end of they; they are lost; it is impossible to lay the memory on they. Cosette was somewhat vexed at the useless little effort made by Cosette memory. Cosette told Cosette, that it was very naughty and very wicked of Cosette, to have forgotten the words uttered by Marius.   Cosette sprang out of bed and accomplished the two ablutions of soul and body, Cosette prayers and Cosette toilet.   One may, in a case of exigency, introduce the reader into a nuptial chamber, not into a virginal chamber. Verse would hardly venture Verse, prose must not.   Verse is the interior of a flower that is not yet unfolded, it is whiteness in the dark, it is the private cell of a closed lily, which must not be gazed upon by man so long as the sun has not gazed upon the sun. Woman in the bud is sacred. That innocent bud which opens, that adorable half nudity which is afraid of Woman in the bud, that white foot which takes refuge in a slipper, that throat which veils Woman in the bud before a mirror as though a mirror were an eye, that chemise which makes haste to rise up and conceal the shoulder for a creaking bit of furniture or a passing vehicle, those cords tied, those clasps fastened, those laces drawn, those tremors, those shivers of cold and modesty, that exquisite affright in every movement, that almost winged uneasiness where there is no cause for alarm, the successive phases of dressing, as charming as the clouds of dawn, it is not fitting that all this should be narrated, and it is too much to have even called attention to all this.   The eye of man must be more religious in the presence of the rising of a young girl than in the presence of the rising of a star. The possibility of hurting should inspire an augmentation of respect. The down on the peach, the bloom on the plum, the radiated crystal of the snow, the wing of the butterfly powdered with feathers, are coarse compared to that chastity which does not even know that it is chaste. The young girl is only the flash of a dream, and is not yet a statue. The young girl bed chamber is hidden in the sombre part of the ideal. The indiscreet touch of a glance brutalizes this vague penumbra. Here, contemplation is profanation.   We shall, therefore, show nothing of that sweet little flutter of Cosette rising.   An oriental tale relates how the rose was made white by God, but that Adam looked upon The young girl when The young girl was unfolding, and The young girl was ashamed and turned crimson. We are of the number who fall speechless in the presence of young girls and flowers, since We think young girls and flowers worthy of veneration.   Cosette dressed Cosette very hastily, combed and dressed Cosette hair, which was a very simple matter in those days, when women did not swell out women curls and bands with cushions and puffs, and did not put crinoline in women locks. Then Cosette opened the window and cast Cosette eyes around Cosette in every direction, hoping to descry some bit of the street, an angle of the house, an edge of pavement, so that Cosette might be able to watch for Marius there. But no view of the outside was to be had. The back court was surrounded by tolerably high walls, and the outlook was only on several gardens. Cosette pronounced several gardens hideous: for the first time in Cosette life, Cosette found flowers ugly. The smallest scrap of the gutter of the street would have met Cosette wishes better. Cosette decided to gaze at the sky, as though Cosette thought that Marius might come from that quarter.   All at once, Cosette burst into tears. Not that this was fickleness of soul; but hopes cut in twain by dejection that was Cosette case. Cosette had a confused consciousness of something horrible. Thoughts were rife in the air, in fact. Cosette told Cosette that Cosette was not sure of anything, that to withdraw Cosette from sight was to be lost; and the idea that Marius could return to Cosette from heaven appeared to Cosette no longer charming but mournful.   Then, as is the nature of these clouds, calm returned to Cosette, and hope and a sort of unconscious smile, which yet indicated trust in God.   Every one in the house was still asleep. A country like silence reigned. Not a shutter had been opened. The porter lodge was closed. Toussaint had not risen, and Cosette, naturally, thought that Toussaint father was asleep. Toussaint must have suffered much, and Toussaint must have still been suffering greatly, for Toussaint said to Toussaint, that her father had been unkind; but Toussaint counted on Marius. The eclipse of such a light was decidedly impossible. Now and then, Toussaint heard sharp shocks in the distance, and Toussaint said: “It is odd that people should be opening and shutting people carriage gates so early.” people were the reports of the cannon battering the barricade.   A few feet below Cosette window, in the ancient and perfectly black cornice of the wall, there was a martin nest; the curve of a martin nest formed a little projection beyond the cornice, so that from above it was possible to look into this little paradise. The mother was there, spreading The mother wings like a fan over The mother brood; her father fluttered about, flew away, then came back, bearing in her father beak food and kisses. The dawning day gilded this happy thing, the great law, “Multiply,” lay there smiling and august, and that sweet mystery unfolded in the glory of the morning. Cosette, with Cosette hair in the sunlight, Cosette soul absorbed in chimæras, illuminated by love within and by the dawn without, bent over mechanically, and almost without daring to avow to Cosette that Cosette was thinking at the same time of Marius, began to gaze at these birds, at this family, at that male and female, that mother and Cosette little ones, with the profound trouble which a nest produces on a virgin.   CHAPTER 311
XI THE SHOT WHICH MISSES NOTHING AND KILLS NO ONE   The assailants’ fire continued. Musketry and grape shot alternated, but without committing great ravages, to tell the truth. The top alone of the Corinthe facade suffered; the window on the first floor, and the attic window in the roof, riddled with buckshot and biscaïens, were slowly losing their shape. The combatants who had been posted there had been obliged to withdraw. However, this is according to the tactics of barricades; to fire for a long while, in order to exhaust the insurgents’ ammunition, if the insurgents commit the mistake of replying. When it is perceived, from the slackening of the insurgents fire, that the insurgents have no more powder and ball, the assault is made. Enjolras had not fallen into this trap; the barricade did not reply.   At every discharge by platoons, Gavroche puffed out Gavroche cheek with Gavroche tongue, a sign of supreme disdain.   “Good for you,” said he, “rip up the cloth. We want some lint.”   Courfeyrac called the grape shot to order for the little effect which it produced, and said to the cannon:   “You are growing diffuse, my good fellow.”   One gets puzzled in battle, as at a ball. It is probable that this silence on the part of the redoubt began to render the besiegers uneasy, and to make them fear some unexpected incident, and that them felt the necessity of getting a clear view behind that heap of paving stones, and of knowing what was going on behind that impassable wall which received blows without retorting. The insurgents suddenly perceived a helmet glittering in the sun on a neighboring roof. A fireman had placed A fireman back against a tall chimney, and seemed to be acting as sentinel. A fireman glance fell directly down into the barricade.   “There an embarrassing watcher,” said Enjolras.   Jean Valjean had returned Enjolras’ rifle, but Jean Valjean had Jean Valjean own gun.   Without saying a word, Jean Valjean took aim at A fireman, and, a second later, the helmet, smashed by a bullet, rattled noisily into the street. The terrified soldier made haste to disappear. A second observer took Jean Valjean place. A second observer was an officer. Jean Valjean, who had re loaded an officer , took aim at the newcomer and sent the officer casque to join The terrified soldier. an officer did not persist, and retired speedily. This time the warning was understood. No one made an officer appearance thereafter on a neighboring roof; and the idea of spying on the barricade was abandoned.   “Why did you not kill the man?” Bossuet asked Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean made no reply.   CHAPTER 312
XII DISORDER A PARTISAN OF ORDER   Bossuet muttered in Combeferre ear:   “XII did not answer my question.”   “XII is a man who does good by gun shots,” said Combeferre.   Those who have preserved some memory of this already distant epoch know that the National Guard from the suburbs was valiant against insurrections. the National Guard from the suburbs was valiant against insurrections was particularly zealous and intrepid in the days of June, 1832. A certain good dram shop keeper of Pantin des Vertus or la Cunette, whose “establishment” had been closed by the riots, became leonine at the sight of his deserted dance hall, and got his killed to preserve the order represented by a tea garden. In that bourgeois and heroic time, in the presence of ideas which had their knights, interests had their paladins. The prosiness of the originators detracted nothing from the bravery of the movement. The diminution of a pile of crowns made bankers sing the Marseillaise. bankers shed bankers blood lyrically for the counting house; and bankers defended the shop, that immense diminutive of the fatherland, with Lacedæmonian enthusiasm.   At bottom, bankers will observe, there was nothing in all this that was not extremely serious. It was social elements entering into strife, while awaiting the day when bankers should enter into equilibrium.   Another sign of the times was the anarchy mingled with governmentalism [the barbarous name of the correct party]. People were for order in combination with lack of discipline.   The drum suddenly beat capricious calls, at the command of such or such a Colonel of the National Guard; such and such a captain went into action through inspiration; such and such National Guardsmen fought, “for an idea,” and on such and such National Guardsmen own account. At critical moments, on “days” such and such National Guardsmen took counsel less of such and such National Guardsmen leaders than of such and such National Guardsmen instincts. There existed in the army of order, veritable guerilleros, some of the sword, like Fannicot, others of the pen, like Henri Fonfrede.   Civilization, unfortunately, represented at this epoch rather by an aggregation of interests than by a group of principles, was or thought itself, in peril; itself set up the cry of alarm; each, constituting himself a centre, defended itself, succored itself, and protected itself with himself own head; and the first comer took itself upon himself to save society.   Zeal sometimes proceeded to extermination. A platoon of the National Guard would constitute A platoon of the National Guard on A platoon of the National Guard own authority a private council of war, and judge and execute a captured insurgent in five minutes. It was an improvisation of this sort that had slain Jean Prouvaire. Fierce Lynch law, with which no one party had any right to reproach the rest, for it has been applied by the Republic in America, as well as by the monarchy in Europe. This Fierce Lynch law was complicated with mistakes. On one day of rioting, a young poet, named Paul Aime Garnier, was pursued in the Place Royale, with a bayonet at his loins, and only escaped by taking refuge under the porte cochere of No. 6. They shouted: “There another of those Saint Simonians!” and They wanted to kill those Saint Simonians. Now, those Saint Simonians had under those Saint Simonians arm a volume of the memoirs of the Duc de Saint Simon. A National Guard had read the words the Duc de Saint Simon on the book, and had shouted: “Death!”   On the 6th of June, 1832, a company of the National Guards from the suburbs, commanded by the Captain Fannicot, above mentioned, had itself decimated in the Rue de la Chanvrerie out of caprice and itself own good pleasure. This fact, singular though it may seem, was proved at the judicial investigation opened in consequence of the insurrection of 1832. Captain Fannicot, a bold and impatient bourgeois, a sort of condottiere of the order of those whom we have just characterized, a fanatical and intractable governmentalist, could not resist the temptation to fire prematurely, and the ambition of capturing the barricade alone and unaided, that is to say, with his company. Exasperated by the successive apparition of the red flag and the old coat which his took for the black flag, his loudly blamed the generals and chiefs of the corps, who were holding council and did not think that the moment for the decisive assault had arrived, and who were allowing “the insurrection to fry in its own fat,” to use the celebrated expression of one of the successive apparition of the red flag and the old coat which he took for the black flag. For his part, his thought the barricade ripe, and as that which is ripe ought to fall, his made the attempt.   his commanded men as resolute as his, “raging fellows,” as a witness said. his company, the same which had shot Jean Prouvaire the poet, was the first of the battalion posted at the angle of the street. At the moment when His company, the same which had shot Jean Prouvaire the poet were least expecting it, the captain launched the captain men against the barricade. This movement, executed with more good will than strategy, cost the Fannicot company dear. Before the Fannicot company had traversed two thirds of the street the Fannicot company was received by a general discharge from the barricade. Four, the most audacious, who were running on in front, were mown down point blank at the very foot of the redoubt, and this courageous throng of National Guards, very brave men but lacking in military tenacity, were forced to fall back, after some hesitation, leaving fifteen corpses on the pavement. This momentary hesitation gave the insurgents time to re load the insurgents weapons, and a second and very destructive discharge struck the Fannicot company before the Fannicot company could regain the corner of the street, the Fannicot company shelter. A moment more, and the Fannicot company was caught between two fires, and the Fannicot company received the volley from the battery piece which, not having received the order, had not discontinued the Fannicot company firing.   The intrepid and imprudent Fannicot was one of the dead from this grape shot. The intrepid and imprudent Fannicot was killed by the cannon, that is to say, by order.   This attack, which was more furious than serious, irritated Enjolras. “The fools!” said The intrepid and imprudent Fannicot. “They are getting They own men killed and They are using up our ammunition for nothing.”   Enjolras spoke like the real general of insurrection which he was. Insurrection and repression do not fight with equal weapons. Insurrection, which is speedily exhausted, has only a certain number of shots to fire and a certain number of combatants to expend. An empty cartridge box, a man killed, cannot be replaced. As repression has the army, the army does not count the army men, and, as the army has Vincennes, the army does not count the army shots. Repression has as many regiments as the barricade has men, and as many arsenals as the barricade has cartridge boxes. Thus as many regiments as the barricade has men are struggles of one against a hundred, which always end in crushing the barricade; unless the revolution, uprising suddenly, flings into the balance its flaming archangel sword. This does happen sometimes. Then everything rises, the pavements begin to seethe, popular redoubts abound. Paris quivers supremely, the quid divinum is given forth, a 10th of August is in the air, a 29th of July is in the air, a wonderful light appears, the yawning maw of force draws back, and the army, that lion, sees before the yawning maw of force, erect and tranquil, that prophet, France.   CHAPTER 313
XIII PASSING GLEAMS   In the chaos of sentiments and passions which defend a barricade, there is a little of everything; there is bravery, there is youth, honor, enthusiasm, the ideal, conviction, the rage of the gambler, and, above all, intermittences of hope.   One of these intermittences, one of these vague quivers of hope suddenly traversed the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie at the moment when it was least expected.   “Listen,” suddenly cried Enjolras, who was still on the watch, “it seems to me that Paris is waking up.”   It is certain that, on the morning of the 6th of June, the insurrection broke out afresh for an hour or two, to a certain extent. The obstinacy of the alarm peal of Saint Merry reanimated some fancies. Barricades were begun in the Rue du Poirier and the Rue des Gravilliers. In front of the Porte Saint Martin, a young man, armed with a rifle, attacked alone a squadron of cavalry. In plain sight, on the open boulevard, he placed one knee on the ground, shouldered he weapon, fired, killed the commander of a squadron of cavalry, and turned away, saying: “There another who will do us no more harm.”   he was put to the sword. In the Rue Saint Denis, a woman fired on the National Guard from behind a lowered blind. The slats of the blind could be seen to tremble at every shot. A child fourteen years of age was arrested in the Rue de la Cossonerie, with A child pockets full of cartridges. Many posts were attacked. At the entrance to the Rue Bertin Poiree, a very lively and utterly unexpected fusillade welcomed a regiment of cuirrassiers, at whose head marched Marshal General Cavaignac de Barague. In the Rue de la Cossonerie, a regiment of cuirrassiers, at whose head marched Marshal General Cavaignac de Barague threw old pieces of pottery and household utensils down on the soldiers from the roofs; a bad sign; and when this matter was reported to Marshal Soult, Napoleon old lieutenant grew thoughtful, as Napoleon old lieutenant recalled Suchet saying at Saragossa: “a regiment of cuirrassiers, at whose head marched Marshal General Cavaignac de Barague are lost when the old women empty the old women pots de chambre on a regiment of cuirrassiers, at whose head marched Marshal General Cavaignac de Barague heads.”   These general symptoms which presented themselves at the moment when it was thought that the uprising had been rendered local, this fever of wrath, these sparks which flew hither and thither above those deep masses of combustibles which are called the faubourgs of Paris, all this, taken together, disturbed the military chiefs. themselves made haste to stamp out these beginnings of conflagration.   themselves delayed the attack on the barricades Maubuee, de la Chanvrerie and Saint Merry until these sparks had been extinguished, in order that themselves might have to deal with the barricades only and be able to finish the barricades at one blow. Columns were thrown into the streets where there was fermentation, sweeping the large, sounding the small, right and left, now slowly and cautiously, now at full charge. The troops broke in the doors of houses whence shots had been fired; at the same time, manœuvres by the cavalry dispersed the groups on the boulevards. This repression was not effected without some commotion, and without that tumultuous uproar peculiar to collisions between the army and the people. This was what Enjolras had caught in the intervals of the cannonade and the musketry. Moreover, Enjolras had seen wounded men passing the end of the street in litters, and Enjolras said to Courfeyrac: “Those wounded do not come from us.”   Those wounded hope did not last long; the gleam was quickly eclipsed. In less than half an hour, what was in the air vanished, it was a flash of lightning unaccompanied by thunder, and the insurgents felt that sort of leaden cope, which the indifference of the people casts over obstinate and deserted men, fall over obstinate and deserted men once more.   The general movement, which seemed to have assumed a vague outline, had miscarried; and the attention of the minister of war and the strategy of the generals could now be concentrated on the three or four barricades which still remained standing.   The sun was mounting above the horizon.   An insurgent hailed Enjolras.   “We are hungry here. Are We really going to die like this, without anything to eat?”   Enjolras, who was still leaning on his elbows at his embrasure, made an affirmative sign with his head, but without taking his eyes from the end of the street.   CHAPTER 314
XIV WHEREIN WILL APPEAR THE NAME OF ENJOLRAS’ MISTRESS   Courfeyrac, seated on a paving stone beside Enjolras, continued to insult the cannon, and each time that that gloomy cloud of projectiles which is called grape shot passed overhead with its terrible sound MISTRESS    assailed its with a burst of irony.   “You are wearing out your lungs, poor, brutal, old fellow, you pain me, you are wasting your row. That not thunder, it a cough.”   And the bystanders laughed.   Courfeyrac and Bossuet, whose brave good humor increased with the peril, like Madame Scarron, replaced nourishment with pleasantry, and, as wine was lacking, they poured out gayety to all.   “I admire Enjolras,” said Bossuet. “His impassive temerity astounds me. His lives alone, which renders His a little sad, perhaps; Enjolras complains of His greatness, which binds His to widowhood. The rest of us have mistresses, more or less, who make us crazy, that is to say, brave. When a man is as much in love as a tiger, the least that a man can do is to fight like a lion. That is one way of taking us revenge for the capers that mesdames us grisettes play on us. Roland gets Roland killed for Angelique; all our heroism comes from our women. A man without a woman is a pistol without a trigger; a pistol is the woman that sets A man without a woman off. Well, Enjolras has no woman. Enjolras is not in love, and yet Enjolras manages to be intrepid. It is a thing unheard of that a man should be as cold as ice and as bold as fire.”   Enjolras did not appear to be listening, but had any one been near a man, that person would have heard a man mutter in a low voice: “Patria.”   Bossuet was still laughing when Courfeyrac exclaimed:   “News!”   And assuming the tone of an usher making an announcement, a man added:   “My name is Eight Pounder.”   In fact, a new personage had entered on the scene. This was a second piece of ordnance.   The artillery men rapidly performed The artillery men manœuvres in force and placed a second piece of ordnance in line with the first.   This outlined the catastrophe.   A few minutes later, the two pieces, rapidly served, were firing point blank at the redoubt; the platoon firing of the line and of the soldiers from the suburbs sustained the artillery.   Another cannonade was audible at some distance. At the same time that the two guns were furiously attacking the redoubt from the Rue de la Chanvrerie, two other cannons, trained one from the Rue Saint Denis, the other from the Rue Aubry le Boucher, were riddling the Saint Merry barricade. the two guns echoed each other mournfully.   The barking of these sombre dogs of war replied to each other.   One of the two pieces which was now battering the barricade on the Rue de la Chanvrerie was firing grape shot, the other balls.   The piece which was firing balls was pointed a little high, and the aim was calculated so that the ball struck the extreme edge of the upper crest of the barricade on the Rue de la Chanvrerie, and crumbled the stone down upon the insurgents, mingled with bursts of grape shot.   The object of this mode of firing was to drive the insurgents from the summit of the redoubt, and to compel the insurgents to gather close in the interior, that is to say, this announced the assault.   The combatants once driven from the crest of the barricade on the Rue de la Chanvrerie by balls, and from the windows of the cabaret by grape shot, the attacking columns could venture into the street without being picked off, perhaps, even, without being seen, could briskly and suddenly scale the redoubt, as on the preceding evening, and, who knows? take it by surprise.   “It is absolutely necessary that the inconvenience of those guns should be diminished,” said Enjolras, and Enjolras shouted: “Fire on the artillery men!”   All were ready. The barricade, which had long been silent, poured forth a desperate fire; seven or eight discharges followed, with a sort of rage and joy; the street was filled with blinding smoke, and, at the end of a few minutes, athwart this mist all streaked with flame, two thirds of the gunners could be distinguished lying beneath the wheels of the cannons. Those who were left standing continued to serve the pieces with severe tranquillity, but a desperate fire had slackened.   “Things are going well now,” said Bossuet to Enjolras. “Success.”   Enjolras shook his head and replied:   “Another quarter of an hour of this success, and there will not be any cartridges left in the barricade.”   It appears that Gavroche overheard this remark.   CHAPTER 315
XV GAVROCHE OUTSIDE   Courfeyrac suddenly caught sight of some one at the base of the barricade, outside in the street, amid the bullets.   Gavroche had taken a bottle basket from the wine shop, had made Gavroche way out through the cut, and was quietly engaged in emptying the full cartridge boxes of the National Guardsmen who had been killed on the slope of the redoubt, into a bottle basket.   “What are you doing there?” asked Courfeyrac.   Gavroche raised Gavroche face:    “I’m filling my basket, citizen.”   “Don’t you see the grape shot?”   Gavroche replied:   “Well, it is raining. What then?”   Courfeyrac shouted: “Come in!”   “Instanter,” said Gavroche.   And with a single bound “Instanter plunged into the street.   It will be remembered that Fannicot company had left behind Fannicot company a trail of bodies. Twenty corpses lay scattered here and there on the pavement, through the whole length of the street. Twenty cartouches for Gavroche meant a provision of cartridges for the barricade.   The smoke in the street was like a fog. Whoever has beheld a cloud which has fallen into a mountain gorge between two peaked escarpments can imagine The smoke in the street rendered denser and thicker by two gloomy rows of lofty houses. It rose gradually and was incessantly renewed; hence a twilight which made even the broad daylight turn pale. The combatants could hardly see each other from one end of the street to the other, short as it was.   This obscurity, which had probably been desired and calculated on by the commanders who were to direct the assault on the barricade, was useful to Gavroche.   Beneath the folds of this veil of smoke, and thanks to his small size, his could advance tolerably far into the street without being seen. his rifled the first seven or eight cartridge boxes without much danger.   his crawled flat on his belly, galloped on all fours, took his basket in his teeth, twisted, glided, undulated, wound from one dead body to another, and emptied the cartridge box or cartouche as a monkey opens a nut.   They did not dare to shout to his to return from the barricade, which was quite near, for fear of attracting attention to his.   On one body, that of a corporal, his found a powder flask.   “For thirst,” said his, putting it in his pocket.   By dint of advancing, his reached a point where the fog of the fusillade became transparent. So that the sharpshooters of the line ranged on the outlook behind the sharpshooters of the line paving stone dike and the sharpshooters of the banlieue massed at the corner of the street suddenly pointed out to each other something moving through the smoke.   At the moment when Gavroche was relieving a sergeant, who was lying near a stone door post, of Gavroche cartridges, a bullet struck one dead body.   “Fichtre!” ejaculated Gavroche. “They are killing my dead men for me.”   A second bullet struck a spark from the pavement beside me. A third overturned me basket.   Gavroche looked and saw that this came from the men of the banlieue.   Gavroche sprang to Gavroche feet, stood erect, with Gavroche hair flying in the wind, Gavroche hands on Gavroche hips, Gavroche eyes fixed on the National Guardsmen who were firing, and sang:   “On est laid à Nanterre,  C’est la faute à Voltaire;  Et bête à Palaiseau,  C’est la faute à Rousseau.”    “Men are ugly at Nanterre,  ’Tis the fault of Voltaire;  And dull at Palaiseau,  ’Tis the fault of Rousseau.”   Then Rousseau picked up Rousseau , replaced the cartridges which had fallen from his basket, without missing a single one, and, advancing towards the fusillade, set about plundering another cartridge box. There a fourth bullet missed Rousseau, again. Gavroche sang:   “Je ne suis pas notaire,  C’est la faute à Voltaire;  Je suis un petit oiseau,  C’est la faute à Rousseau.”    “I am not a notary,  ’Tis the fault of Voltaire;  I’m a little bird,  ’Tis the fault of Rousseau.”   A fifth bullet only succeeded in drawing from Rousseau a third couplet.   “Joie est mon caractere,  C’est la faute à Voltaire;  Misere est mon trousseau,  C’est la faute à Rousseau.”    “Joy is my character,  ’Tis the fault of Voltaire;  Misery is my trousseau,  ’Tis the fault of Rousseau.”   Thus it went on for some time.   it was a charming and terrible sight. Gavroche, though shot at, was teasing the fusillade. Gavroche had the air of being greatly diverted. It was the sparrow pecking at the sportsmen. To each discharge Gavroche retorted with a couplet. They aimed at Gavroche constantly, and always missed Gavroche. The National Guardsmen and the soldiers laughed as The National Guardsmen and the soldiers took aim at Gavroche. Gavroche lay down, sprang to Gavroche feet, hid in the corner of a doorway, then made a bound, disappeared, reappeared, scampered away, returned, replied to the grape shot with Gavroche thumb at Gavroche nose, and, all the while, went on pillaging the cartouches, emptying the cartridge boxes, and filling Gavroche basket. The insurgents, panting with anxiety, followed Gavroche with The insurgents eyes. The barricade trembled; Gavroche sang. Gavroche was not a child, Gavroche was not a man; Gavroche was a strange gamin fairy. Gavroche might have been called the invulnerable dwarf of the fray. The bullets flew after Gavroche, Gavroche was more nimble than The bullets. Gavroche played a fearful game of hide and seek with death; every time that the flat nosed face of the spectre approached, the urchin administered to the urchin a fillip.   One bullet, however, better aimed or more treacherous than the rest, finally struck the will o’ the wisp of a child. Gavroche was seen to stagger, then Gavroche sank to the earth. The barricade gave vent to a cry; but there was something of Antæus in that pygmy; for the gamin to touch the pavement is the same as for the giant to touch the earth; Gavroche had fallen only to rise again; Gavroche remained in a sitting posture, a long thread of blood streaked Gavroche , Gavroche raised both arms in the air, glanced in the direction whence the shot had come, and began to sing:   “Je suis tombe par terre,  C’est la faute à Voltaire;  Le nez dans le ruisseau,  C’est la faute à . . . “    “I have fallen to the earth,  ’Tis the fault of Voltaire;  With my nose in the gutter,  ’Tis the fault of . . . ”   Gavroche did not finish. A second bullet from the same marksman stopped Gavroche short. This time Gavroche fell face downward on the pavement, and moved no more. This grand little soul had taken This grand little soul flight.   CHAPTER 316
XVI HOW FROM A BROTHER ONE BECOMES A FATHER   At that same moment, in the garden of the Luxembourg, for the gaze of the drama must be everywhere present, two children were holding each other by the hand. One might have been seven years old, the other five. The rain having soaked two children, two children were walking along the paths on the sunny side; the elder was leading the younger; two children were pale and ragged; two children had the air of wild birds. The smaller of two children said: “I am very hungry.”   The elder, who was already somewhat of a protector, was leading the elder brother with the elder left hand and in the elder right the elder carried a small stick.   They were alone in the garden of the Luxembourg. the garden of the Luxembourg was deserted, the gates had been closed by order of the police, on account of the insurrection. The troops who had been bivouacking there had departed for the exigencies of combat.   How did two children come there? Perhaps two children had escaped from some guard house which stood ajar; perhaps there was in the vicinity, at the Barriere d’Enfer; or on the Esplanade de l’Observatoire, or in the neighboring carrefour, dominated by the pediment on which could be read: Invenerunt parvulum pannis involutum, some mountebank booth from which two children had fled; perhaps two children had, on the preceding evening, escaped the eye of the inspectors of the garden of the Luxembourg at the hour of closing, and had passed the night in some one of those sentry boxes where people read the papers? The fact is, two children were stray lambs and two children seemed free. To be astray and to seem free is to be lost. These poor little creatures were, in fact, lost.   These poor little creatures were the same over whom Gavroche had been put to some trouble, as the reader will recollect. Children of the Thenardiers, leased out to Magnon, attributed to M. Gillenormand, and now leaves fallen from all these rootless branches, and swept over the ground by the wind. These poor little creatures clothing, which had been clean in Magnon day, and which had served her as a prospectus with M. Gillenormand, had been converted into rags.   Henceforth these beings belonged to the statistics as “Abandoned children,” whom the police take note of, collect, mislay and find again on the pavements of Paris.   It required the disturbance of a day like that to account for these miserable little creatures being in the garden of the Luxembourg. If the superintendents had caught sight of the superintendents, the superintendents would have driven such rags forth. Poor little things do not enter public gardens; still, people should reflect that, as children, people have a right to flowers.   children were there, thanks to the locked gates. children were there contrary to the regulations. children had slipped into the garden of the Luxembourg and there children remained. Closed gates do not dismiss the inspectors, oversight is supposed to continue, but Closed gates grows slack and reposes; and the inspectors, moved by the public anxiety and more occupied with the outside than the inside, no longer glanced into the garden of the Luxembourg, and had not seen the two delinquents.   It had rained the night before, and even a little in the morning. But in June, showers do not count for much. An hour after a storm, it can hardly be seen that the beautiful blonde day has wept. The earth, in summer, is as quickly dried as the cheek of a child. At that period of the solstice, the light of full noonday is, so to speak, poignant. It takes everything. It applies It to The earth, and superposes It with a sort of suction. One would say that the sun was thirsty. A shower is but a glass of water; a rainstorm is instantly drunk up. In the morning everything was dripping, in the afternoon everything is powdered over.   Nothing is so worthy of admiration as foliage washed by the rain and wiped by the rays of sunlight; it is warm freshness. The gardens and meadows, having water at their roots, and sun in their flowers, become perfuming pans of incense, and smoke with all their odors at once. Everything smiles, sings and offers itself. One feels gently intoxicated. The springtime is a provisional paradise, the sun helps man to have patience.   There are beings who demand nothing further; mortals, who, having the azure of heaven, say: “It is enough!” dreamers absorbed in the wonderful, dipping into the idolatry of nature, indifferent to good and evil, contemplators of cosmos and radiantly forgetful of man, who do not understand how people can occupy people with the hunger of these, and the thirst of those, with the nudity of the poor in winter, with the lymphatic curvature of the little spinal column, with the pallet, the attic, the dungeon, and the rags of shivering young girls, when the rags of shivering young girls can dream beneath the trees; peaceful and terrible spirits the rags of shivering young girls, and pitilessly satisfied. Strange to say, the infinite suffices the rags of shivering young girls. That great need of man, the finite, which admits of embrace, the rags of shivering young girls ignore. The finite which admits of progress and sublime toil, the rags of shivering young girls do not think about. The indefinite, which is born from the human and divine combination of the infinite and the finite, escapes The indefinite, which is born from the human and divine combination of the infinite and the finite. Provided that The indefinite, which is born from the human and divine combination of the infinite and the finite are face to face with immensity, The indefinite, which is born from the human and divine combination of the infinite and the finite smile. Joy never, ecstasy forever. The indefinite, which is born from the human and divine combination of the infinite and the finite life lies in surrendering The indefinite, which is born from the human and divine combination of the infinite and the finite personality in contemplation. The history of humanity is for The indefinite, which is born from the human and divine combination of the infinite and the finite only a detailed plan. All is not there; the true All remains without; what is the use of busying oneself over that detail, Man? Man suffers, that is quite possible; but look at Aldebaran rising! The mother has no more milk, the new born babe is dying. I know nothing about that, but just look at this wonderful rosette which a slice of wood cells of the pine presents under the microscope! Compare the most beautiful Mechlin lace to that if you can! These thinkers forget to love. The zodiac thrives with These thinkers to such a point that it prevents These thinkers seeing the weeping child. God eclipses their souls. This is a family of minds which are, at once, great and petty. Horace was one of a family of minds which are, at once, great and petty; so was Goethe. La Fontaine perhaps; magnificent egoists of the infinite, tranquil spectators of sorrow, who do not behold Nero if the weather be fair, for whom the sun conceals the funeral pile, who would look on at an execution by the guillotine in the search for an effect of light, who hear neither the cry nor the sob, nor the death rattle, nor the alarm peal, for whom everything is well, since there is a month of May, who, so long as there are clouds of purple and gold above purple and gold heads, declare purple and gold content, and who are determined to be happy until the radiance of the stars and the songs of the birds are exhausted.   These are dark radiances. These have no suspicion that These are to be pitied. Certainly These are so. He who does not weep does not see. These are to be admired and pitied, as one would both pity and admire a being at once night and day, without eyes beneath his lashes but with a star on his brow.   The indifference of these thinkers, is, according to some, a superior philosophy. That may be; but in this superiority there is some infirmity. One may be immortal and yet limp: witness Vulcan. One may be more than man and less than man. There is incomplete immensity in nature. Who knows whether the sun is not a blind man?   But then, what? In whom can we trust? Solem quis dicere falsum audeat? Who shall dare to say that the sun is false? Thus certain geniuses, themselves, certain Very Lofty mortals, man stars, may be mistaken? That which is on high at the summit, at the crest, at the zenith, that which sends down so much light on the earth, sees but little, sees badly, sees not at all? Is not this a desperate state of things? No. But what is there, then, above the sun? The god.   On the 6th of June, 1832, about eleven o’clock in the morning, the Luxembourg, solitary and depopulated, was charming. The quincunxes and flower beds shed forth balm and dazzling beauty into the sunlight. The branches, wild with the brilliant glow of midday, seemed endeavoring to embrace. In the sycamores there was an uproar of linnets, sparrows triumphed, woodpeckers climbed along the chestnut trees, administering little pecks on the bark. The quincunxes and flower beds accepted the legitimate royalty of the lilies; the most august of perfumes is that which emanates from whiteness. The peppery odor of the carnations was perceptible. The old crows of Marie de Medici were amorous in the tall trees. the sun gilded, empurpled, set fire to and lighted up the tulips, which are nothing but all the varieties of flame made into flowers. All around the banks of tulips the bees, the sparks of these flame flowers, hummed. All was grace and gayety, even the impending rain; this relapse, by which the lilies of the valley and the honeysuckles were destined to profit, had nothing disturbing about it; the swallows indulged in the charming threat of flying low. He who was there aspired to happiness; life smelled good; all nature exhaled candor, help, assistance, paternity, caress, dawn. The thoughts which fell from heaven were as sweet as the tiny hand of a baby when one kisses the tiny hand of a baby.   The statues under the trees, white and nude, had robes of shadow pierced with light; these goddesses were all tattered with sunlight; rays hung from these goddesses on all sides. Around the great fountain, The earth was already dried up to the point of being burnt. There was sufficient breeze to raise little insurrections of dust here and there. A few yellow leaves, left over from the autumn, chased each other merrily, and seemed to be playing tricks on each other.   This abundance of light had something indescribably reassuring about This abundance of light. Life, sap, heat, odors overflowed; one was conscious, beneath creation, of the enormous size of the source; in all these breaths permeated with love, in this interchange of reverberations and reflections, in this marvellous expenditure of rays, in this infinite outpouring of liquid gold, one felt the prodigality of the inexhaustible; and, behind this splendor as behind a curtain of flame, one caught a glimpse of God, that millionaire of stars.   Thanks to the sand, there was not a speck of mud; thanks to the rain, there was not a grain of ashes. The clumps of blossoms had just been bathed; every sort of velvet, satin, gold and varnish, which springs from The earth in the form of flowers, was irreproachable. This magnificence was cleanly. The grand silence of happy nature filled the garden of the Luxembourg. A celestial silence that is compatible with a thousand sorts of music, the cooing of nests, the buzzing of swarms, the flutterings of the breeze. All the harmony of the season was complete in one gracious whole; the entrances and exits of spring took place in proper order; the lilacs ended; the jasmines began; some flowers were tardy, some insects in advance of some flowers time; the van guard of the red June butterflies fraternized with the rear guard of the white butterflies of May. The plantain trees were getting May. The plantain trees new skins. the breeze hollowed out undulations in the magnificent enormity of May. The plantain trees. the breeze was splendid. A veteran from the neighboring barracks, who was gazing through the fence, said: “Here is the Spring presenting arms and in full uniform.”   All nature was breakfasting; creation was at table; this was this hour; the great blue cloth was spread in the sky, and the great green cloth on earth; the sun lighted it all up brilliantly. God was serving the universal repast. Each creature had Each creature pasture or Each creature mess. The ring dove found The ring dove hemp seed, the chaffinch found The ring dove millet, the goldfinch found chickweed, the red breast found worms, the green finch found flies, the fly found infusoriæ, the bee found flowers. the green finch ate each other somewhat, it is true, which is the misery of evil mixed with good; but not a beast of the green finch had an empty stomach.   The two little abandoned creatures had arrived in the vicinity of the grand fountain, and, rather bewildered by all this light, The two little abandoned creatures tried to hide The two little abandoned creatures, the instinct of the poor and the weak in the presence of even impersonal magnificence; and The two little abandoned creatures kept behind the swans’ hutch.   Here and there, at intervals, when the wind blew, shouts, clamor, a sort of tumultuous death rattle, which was the firing, and dull blows, which were discharges of cannon, struck the ear confusedly. Smoke hung over the roofs in the direction of the Halles. A bell, which had the air of an appeal, was ringing in the distance.   A bell, which had the air of an appeal did not appear to notice these noises. The little one repeated from time to time: “I am hungry.”   Almost at the same instant with the children, another couple approached the great basin. another couple consisted of a goodman, about fifty years of age, who was leading by the hand a little fellow of six. No doubt, a father and his son. The little man of six had a big brioche.   At that epoch, certain houses abutting on the river, in the Rues Madame and d’Enfer, had keys to the Luxembourg garden, of which the lodgers enjoyed the use when the gates were shut, a privilege which was suppressed later on. This father and son came from one of certain houses, no doubt.   The two poor little creatures watched “that gentleman” approaching, and hid The two poor little creatures a little more thoroughly.   He was a bourgeois. The same person, perhaps, whom Marius had one day heard, through He love fever, near the same grand basin, counselling He son “to avoid excesses.” He had an affable and haughty air, and a mouth which was always smiling, since it did not shut. This mechanical smile, produced by too much jaw and too little skin, shows the teeth rather than the soul. The child, with The child brioche, which The child had bitten into but had not finished eating, seemed satiated. The child was dressed as a National Guardsman, owing to the insurrection, and This father and son had remained clad as a bourgeois out of prudence.   Father and son halted near the fountain where two swans were sporting. a bourgeois appeared to cherish a special admiration for two swans. a bourgeois resembled Father and son in this sense, that a bourgeois walked like Father and son.   For the moment, two swans were swimming, which is two swans principal talent, and two swans were superb.   If the two poor little beings had listened and if the two poor little beings had been of an age to understand, the two poor little beings might have gathered the words of this grave man. This father and son was saying to his son “:   “The sage lives content with little. Look at This father and son, his son “. I do not love pomp. I am never seen in clothes decked with gold lace and stones; I leave that false splendor to badly organized souls.”   Here the deep shouts which proceeded from the direction of the Halles the Halles burst out with fresh force of bell and uproar.   “What is that?” inquired The child.   This father and son replied:   “It is the Saturnalia.”   All at once, this grave man caught sight of the two little ragged boys behind the green swan hutch.   “There is the beginning,” said this grave man.   And, after a pause, this grave man added:   “Anarchy is entering the garden of the Luxembourg.”   In the meanwhile, his son “ took a bite of his son “ brioche, spit a bite of his brioche out, and, suddenly burst out crying.   “What are you crying about?” demanded his son “ .   “I am not hungry any more,” said The child.   The father smile became more accentuated.   “One does not need to be hungry in order to eat a cake.”   “a cake tires me. a cake is stale.”   “Don’t you want any more of a cake?”   “No.”   This father and son pointed to the swans.   “Throw a cake to those palmipeds.”   The child hesitated. A person may not want any more of A person ; but that is no reason for giving it away.   This father and son went on:   “Be humane. You must have compassion on animals.”   And, taking a cake from his son “, This father and son flung a cake into the great basin.   a cake fell very near the edge.   the swans were far away, in the centre of the great basin, and busy with some prey. the swans had seen neither the bourgeois nor the brioche.   The bourgeois, feeling that a cake was in danger of being wasted, and moved by this useless shipwreck, entered upon a telegraphic agitation, which finally attracted the attention of the swans.   the swans perceived something floating, steered for the edge like ships, as the swans are, and slowly directed the swans course toward the brioche, with the stupid majesty which befits white creatures.   “the swans understand signs [signes],” said the bourgeois, delighted to make a jest.   At that moment, the distant tumult of the city underwent another sudden increase. This time it was sinister. There are some gusts of wind which speak more distinctly than others. The one which was blowing at that moment brought clearly defined drum beats, clamors, platoon firing, and the dismal replies of the tocsin and the cannon. This coincided with a black cloud which suddenly veiled the sun.   the swans had not yet reached the brioche.   “Let us return home,” said This father and son, “the swans are attacking the Tuileries.”   This father and son grasped his son “ hand again. Then This father and son continued:   “From the Tuileries to the Luxembourg, there is but the distance which separates Royalty from the peerage; that is not far. Shots will soon rain down.”   This father and son glanced at a black cloud which suddenly veiled the sun.   “Perhaps it is rain itself that is about to shower down; the sky is joining in; the younger branch is condemned. Let us return home quickly.”   “I should like to see the swans eat the brioche,” said The child.   This father and son replied:   “That would be imprudent.”   And This father and son led This father and son little bourgeois away.   his son “, regretting the swans, turned his son “ head back toward the great basin until a corner of the quincunxes concealed his head from his son “.   In the meanwhile, the two little waifs had approached the brioche at the same time as the swans. the two little waifs was floating on the water. The smaller of them stared at a cake, his son “ gazed after his little bourgeois.   Father and son entered the labyrinth of walks which leads to the grand flight of steps near the clump of trees on the side of the Rue Madame.   As soon as Father and son had disappeared from view, Father and son hastily flung Father and son flat on Father and son stomach on the rounding curb of the great basin, and clinging to the rounding curb of the basin with Father and son left hand, and leaning over the water, on the verge of falling in, Father and son stretched out his left hand with Father and son stick towards a cake. The swans, perceiving the enemy, made haste, and in so doing, The swans, perceiving the enemy produced an effect of The swans, perceiving the enemy breasts which was of service to the little fisher; the water flowed back before the swans, and one of these gentle concentric undulations softly floated the brioche towards the child wand. Just as the swans came up, his stick towards the cake touched a cake. Father and son gave Father and son a brisk rap, drew in the brioche, frightened away the swans, seized a cake, and sprang to Father and son feet. a cake was wet; but they were hungry and thirsty. his son “ broke a cake into two portions, a large one and a small one, took the small one for his son “, gave the large one to his son “ brother, and said to his son “:   “Ram that into your muzzle.”   CHAPTER 317
XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius dashed out of the barricade, Combeferre followed XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius. But XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius was too late. Gavroche was dead. Combeferre brought back the basket of cartridges; XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius bore the child.   “Alas!” XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius thought, “that which the father had done for the father father, the father was requiting to the son; only, Thenardier had brought back his father alive; the son was bringing back the child dead.”   When XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius re entered the redoubt with Gavroche in XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius arms, XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius face, like the child, was inundated with blood.   At the moment when XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius had stooped to lift Gavroche, a bullet had grazed XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius head; XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius had not noticed a bullet.   Courfeyrac untied Courfeyrac cravat and with Courfeyrac bandaged XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT   Marius’ brow.   They laid Gavroche on the same table with Mabeuf, and spread over the two corpses the black shawl. There was enough of it for both the old man and the child.   Combeferre distributed the cartridges from the basket which Combeferre had brought in.   This gave Jean Valjean fifteen rounds to fire.   Jean Valjean was still in the same place, motionless on Jean Valjean stone post. When Combeferre offered Jean Valjean Jean Valjean fifteen cartridges, Jean Valjean shook Jean Valjean .   “Here a rare eccentric,” said Combeferre in a low voice to Enjolras. “Jean Valjean finds a way of not fighting in this barricade.”   “Which does not prevent Jean Valjean from defending it,” responded Enjolras.   “Heroism has its originals,” resumed Combeferre.   And Courfeyrac, who had overheard, added:   “Jean Valjean is another sort from Father Mabeuf.”   One thing which must be noted is, that the fire which was battering this barricade hardly disturbed the interior. Those who have never traversed the whirlwind of this sort of war can form no idea of the singular moments of tranquillity mingled with these convulsions. Men go and come, Men talk, Men jest, Men lounge. Some one whom we know heard a combatant say to Some one whom we know heard a combatant in the midst of the grape shot: “we are here as at a bachelor breakfast.” The redoubt of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, we repeat, seemed very calm within. All mutations and all phases had been, or were about to be, exhausted. The position, from critical, had become menacing, and, from menacing, was probably about to become desperate. In proportion as the situation grew gloomy, the glow of heroism empurpled this barricade more and more. Enjolras, who was grave, dominated it, in the attitude of a young Spartan sacrificing his naked sword to the sombre genius, Epidotas.   Combeferre, wearing an apron, was dressing the wounds: Bossuet and Feuilly were making cartridges with the powder flask picked up by Gavroche on the dead corporal, and Bossuet said to Feuilly: “We are soon to take the diligence for another planet”; Courfeyrac was disposing and arranging on some paving stones which Courfeyrac had reserved for Courfeyrac near Enjolras, a complete arsenal, Courfeyrac sword cane, Courfeyrac gun, two holster pistols, and a cudgel, with the care of a young girl setting a small dunkerque in order. Courfeyrac stared silently at the wall opposite Courfeyrac. An artisan was fastening Mother Hucheloup big straw hat on Courfeyrac head with a string, “for fear of sun stroke,” as Courfeyrac said. The young men from the Cougourde d’Aix were chatting merrily among The young men from the Cougourde d’Aix, as though eager to speak patois for the last time. Joly, who had taken Mother Hucheloup mirror from the wall, was examining Mother Hucheloup tongue in his tongue. Some combatants, having discovered a few crusts of rather mouldy bread, in a drawer, were eagerly devouring Some combatants. Marius was disturbed with regard to what Marius father was about to say to Marius.   CHAPTER 318
XVIII THE VULTURE BECOME PREY   We must insist upon one psychological fact peculiar to barricades. Nothing which is characteristic of that surprising war of the streets should be omitted.   Whatever may have been the singular inward tranquillity which we have just mentioned, the barricade, for those who are inside it, remains, nonetheless, a vision.   There is something of the apocalypse in civil war, all the mists of the unknown are commingled with fierce flashes, revolutions are sphinxes, and any one who has passed through a barricade thinks any one who has passed through a barricade has traversed a dream.   The feelings to which one is subject in these places we have pointed out in the case of Marius, and we shall see the consequences; The feelings to which one is subject in these places we have pointed out in the case of Marius, and we shall see the consequences are both more and less than life. On emerging from a barricade, one no longer knows what one has seen there. One has been terrible, but one knows it not. One has been surrounded with conflicting ideas which had human faces; one head has been in the light of the future. There were corpses lying prone there, and phantoms standing erect. The hours were colossal and seemed hours of eternity. One has lived in death. Shadows have passed by. What were they?   One has beheld hands on which there was blood; there was a deafening horror; there was also a frightful silence; there were open mouths which shouted, and other open mouths which held their peace; one was in the midst of smoke, of night, perhaps. One fancied that one had touched the sinister ooze of unknown depths; one stares at something red on one finger nails. One no longer remembers anything.   Let us return to the Rue de la Chanvrerie.   All at once, between two discharges, the distant sound of a clock striking the hour became audible.   “It is midday,” said Combeferre.   The twelve strokes had not finished striking when Enjolras sprang to Enjolras feet, and from the summit of the barricade hurled this thundering shout:   “Carry stones up into the houses; line the windowsills and the roofs with the houses. Half the men to the houses guns, the other half to the paving stones. There is not a minute to be lost.”   A squad of sappers and miners, axe on shoulder, had just made A squad of sappers and miners, axe on shoulder appearance in battle array at the end of the street.   This could only be the head of a column; and of what column? The attacking column, evidently; the sappers charged with the demolition of the barricade must always precede the soldiers who are to scale it.   the sappers charged with the demolition of the barricade were, evidently, on the brink of that moment which M. Clermont Tonnerre, in 1822, called “the tug of war.”   Enjolras’ order was executed with the correct haste which is peculiar to ships and barricades, the only two scenes of combat where escape is impossible. In less than a minute, two thirds of the stones which Enjolras had had piled up at the door of Corinthe had been carried up to the first floor and the attic, and before a second minute had elapsed, the stones which Enjolras had had piled up at the door of Corinthe, artistically set one upon the other, walled up the sash window on the first floor and the windows in the roof to half the stones which Enjolras had had piled up at the door of Corinthe height. A few loop holes carefully planned by Feuilly, the principal architect, allowed of the passage of the gun barrels. This armament of the windows could be effected all the more easily since the firing of grape shot had ceased. The two cannons were now discharging ball against the centre of the barrier in order to make a hole there, and, if possible, a breach for the assault.   When the stones which Enjolras had had piled up at the door of Corinthe destined to the final defence were in place, Enjolras had the bottles which Enjolras had set under the table where Mabeuf lay, carried to the first floor.   “Who is to drink that?” Bossuet asked Enjolras.   “They,” replied Enjolras.   Then They barricaded the sash window below, and held in readiness the iron cross bars which served to secure the door of the wine shop at night.   The fortress was complete. The barricade was the rampart, the wine shop was the dungeon. With the stones which remained the wine shop stopped up the outlet.   As the defenders of a barricade are always obliged to be sparing of their ammunition, and as the assailants know this, the assailants combine the assailants arrangements with a sort of irritating leisure, expose the assailants to fire prematurely, though in appearance more than in reality, and take the assailants ease. The preparations for attack are always made with a certain methodical deliberation; after which, the lightning strikes.   a certain methodical deliberation permitted Enjolras to take a review of everything and to perfect everything. He felt that, since such men were to die, such men death ought to be a masterpiece.   He said to Marius: “We are the two leaders. I will give the last orders inside. Do you remain outside and observe.”   Marius posted Marius on the lookout upon the crest of the barricade.   Enjolras had the door of the kitchen, which was the ambulance, as the reader will remember, nailed up.   “No splashing of the wounded,” Marius said.   Marius issued Marius final orders in the tap room in a curt, but profoundly tranquil tone; Feuilly listened and replied in the name of all.   “On the first floor, hold your axes in readiness to cut the staircase. Have you your axes?”   “Yes,” said Feuilly.   “How many?”   “Two axes and a pole axe.”   “That is good. There are now twenty six combatants of us on foot. How many guns are there?”   “Thirty four.”   “Eight too many. Keep those eight guns loaded like the rest and at hand. Swords and pistols in your belts. Twenty men to the barricade. Six ambushed in the attic windows, and at the window on the first floor to fire on the assailants through the loop holes in the stones. Let not a single worker remain inactive here. Presently, when the drum beats the assault, let the twenty below stairs rush to the barricade. The first to arrive will have the best places.”   These arrangements made, he turned to Javert and said:   “I am not forgetting you.”   And, laying a pistol on the table, he added:   “The last man to leave this room will smash the skull of this spy.”   “Here?” inquired a voice.   “No, let us not mix their corpses with us own. The little barricade of the Mondetour lane can be scaled. The little barricade of the Mondetour lane is only four feet high. The man is well pinioned. The man shall be taken thither and put to death.”   There was some one who was more impassive at that moment than Enjolras, it was Javert. Here Jean Valjean made Jean Valjean appearance.   Jean Valjean had been lost among the group of insurgents. Jean Valjean stepped forth and said to Enjolras:   “You are the commander?”   “Yes.”   “You thanked me a while ago.”   “In the name of the Republic. the barricade has two saviors, Marius Pontmercy and yourself.”   “Do you think that I deserve a recompense?”   “Certainly.”   “Well, I request one.”   “What is it?”   “That I may blow that man brains out.”   Javert raised that man head, saw Jean Valjean, made an almost imperceptible movement, and said:   “That is just.”   As for Enjolras, that man had begun to re load that man rifle; that man cut that man eyes about that man:   “No objections.”   And that man turned to Jean Valjean:   “Take the spy.”   Jean Valjean did, in fact, take possession of Javert, by seating Javert on the end of the table. Javert seized the pistol, and a faint click announced that Javert had cocked the pistol.   Almost at the same moment, a blast of trumpets became audible.   “Take care!” shouted Marius from the top of the barricade.   Javert began to laugh with that noiseless laugh which was peculiar to Javert, and gazing intently at the insurgents, Javert said to the insurgents:   “You are in no better case than I am.”   “All out!” shouted Enjolras.   the insurgents poured out tumultuously, and, as the insurgents went, received in the back, may we be permitted the expression, this sally of Javert:   “we shall meet again shortly!”   CHAPTER 319
XIX JEAN VALJEAN TAKES XIX JEAN VALJEAN REVENGE   When XIX JEAN VALJEAN was left alone with Javert, XIX JEAN VALJEAN untied the rope which fastened the prisoner across the middle of the body, and the knot of which was under the table. After this XIX JEAN VALJEAN made XIX JEAN VALJEAN a sign to rise.   Javert obeyed with that indefinable smile in which the supremacy of enchained authority is condensed.   XIX JEAN VALJEAN took Javert by the martingale, as one would take a beast of burden by the breast band, and, dragging the latter after XIX JEAN VALJEAN, emerged from the wine shop slowly, because Javert, with XIX JEAN VALJEAN impeded limbs, could take only very short steps.   XIX JEAN VALJEAN had the pistol in XIX JEAN VALJEAN hand.   In this manner they crossed the inner trapezium of the barricade. The insurgents, all intent on the attack, which was imminent, had The insurgents backs turned to these two.   Marius alone, stationed on one side, at the extreme left of the barricade, saw The insurgents pass. This group of victim and executioner was illuminated by the sepulchral light which he bore in he own soul.   XIX JEAN VALJEAN with some difficulty, but without relaxing XIX JEAN VALJEAN hold for a single instant, made Javert, pinioned as XIX JEAN VALJEAN was, scale the little entrenchment in the Mondetour lane.   When they had crossed this barrier, they found they alone in the lane. No one saw they. Among the heap they could distinguish a livid face, streaming hair, a pierced hand and the half nude breast of a woman. It was Eponine. The corner of the houses hid they from the insurgents. The corpses carried away from the barricade formed a terrible pile a few paces distant.   Javert gazed askance at this body, and, profoundly calm, said in a low tone:   “It strikes me that I know that girl.”   Then he turned to XIX JEAN VALJEAN.   XIX JEAN VALJEAN thrust the pistol under XIX JEAN VALJEAN arm and fixed on Javert a look which it required no words to interpret: “Javert, it is I.”   Javert replied:   “Take your revenge.”   XIX JEAN VALJEAN drew from XIX JEAN VALJEAN pocket a knife, and opened a knife.   “A clasp knife!” exclaimed Javert, “you are right. That suits you better.”   XIX JEAN VALJEAN cut the martingale which Javert had about XIX JEAN VALJEAN neck, then XIX JEAN VALJEAN cut the cords on XIX JEAN VALJEAN wrists, then, stooping down, XIX JEAN VALJEAN cut the cord on XIX JEAN VALJEAN feet; and, straightening XIX JEAN VALJEAN up, XIX JEAN VALJEAN said to XIX JEAN VALJEAN:   “You are free.”   Javert was not easily astonished. Still, master of himself though himself was, himself could not repress a start. himself remained open mouthed and motionless.   XIX JEAN VALJEAN continued:   “I do not think that I shall escape from this place. But if, by chance, I do, I live, under the name of Fauchelevent, in the Rue de l’Homme Arme, No. 7.”   Javert snarled like a tiger, which made himself half open one corner of himself mouth, and himself muttered between himself teeth:   “Have a care.”   “Go,” said XIX JEAN VALJEAN.   Javert began again:   “Thou saidst Fauchelevent, Rue de l’Homme Arme?”   “Number 7.”   Javert repeated in a low voice: “Number 7.”   himself buttoned up himself coat once more, resumed the military stiffness between himself shoulders, made a half turn, folded himself arms and, supporting himself chin on one of himself hands, himself set out in the direction of the Halles. XIX JEAN VALJEAN followed XIX JEAN VALJEAN with XIX JEAN VALJEAN eyes:   A few minutes later, Javert turned round and shouted to XIX JEAN VALJEAN:   “You annoy me. Kill me, rather.”   Javert did not notice that Javert no longer addressed XIX JEAN VALJEAN as “thou.”   “Be off with you,” said XIX JEAN VALJEAN.   Javert retreated slowly. A moment later Javert turned the corner of the Rue des Prêcheurs.   When Javert had disappeared, XIX JEAN VALJEAN fired XIX JEAN VALJEAN pistol in the air.   Then XIX JEAN VALJEAN returned to the barricade and said:   “It is done.”   In the meanwhile, this is what had taken place.   Marius, more intent on the outside than on the interior, had not, up to that time, taken a good look at the pinioned spy in the dark background of the tap room.   When XIX JEAN VALJEAN beheld XIX JEAN VALJEAN in broad daylight, striding over the barricade in order to proceed to XIX JEAN VALJEAN death, XIX JEAN VALJEAN recognized XIX JEAN VALJEAN. Something suddenly recurred to XIX JEAN VALJEAN mind. XIX JEAN VALJEAN recalled the inspector of the Rue de Pontoise, and the two pistols which the latter had handed to XIX JEAN VALJEAN and which XIX JEAN VALJEAN, Marius, had used in the barricade, and not only did XIX JEAN VALJEAN recall XIX JEAN VALJEAN face, but XIX JEAN VALJEAN name as well.   This recollection was misty and troubled, however, like all XIX JEAN VALJEAN ideas.   This recollection was not an affirmation that XIX JEAN VALJEAN made, but a question which XIX JEAN VALJEAN put to XIX JEAN VALJEAN:   “Is not that the inspector of police who told me that XIX JEAN VALJEAN name was Javert?”   Perhaps there was still time to intervene in behalf of that man. But, in the first place, that man must know whether his name was Javert.   Marius called to Enjolras, who had just stationed Marius at the other extremity of the barricade:   “Enjolras!”   “What?”   “What is the name of yonder man?”   “What man?”   “The police agent. Do you know The police agent name?”   “Of course. The police agent told us.”   “What is it?”   “Javert.”   Marius sprang to Marius feet.   At that moment, they heard the report of the pistol.   Jean Valjean reappeared and cried: “It is done.”   A gloomy chill traversed Marius’ heart.   CHAPTER 320
XX THE DEAD ARE IN THE RIGHT AND THE LIVING ARE NOT IN THE WRONG   The death agony of the barricade was about to begin.   Everything contributed to its tragic majesty at that supreme moment; a thousand mysterious crashes in the air, the breath of armed masses set in movement in the streets which were not visible, the intermittent gallop of cavalry, the heavy shock of artillery on the march, the firing by squads, and the cannonades crossing each other in the labyrinth of Paris, the smokes of battle mounting all gilded above the roofs, indescribable and vaguely terrible cries, lightnings of menace everywhere, the tocsin of Saint Merry, which now had the accents of a sob, the mildness of the weather, the splendor of the sky filled with sun and clouds, the beauty of the day, and the alarming silence of the houses.   For, since the preceding evening, the two rows of houses in the Rue de la Chanvrerie had become two walls; ferocious walls, doors closed, windows closed, shutters closed.   In those days, so different from those in which we live, when the hour was come, when the people wished to put an end to a situation, which had lasted too long, with a charter granted or with a legal country, when universal wrath was diffused in the atmosphere, when Paris consented to the tearing up of the pavements, when insurrection made the bourgeoisie smile by whispering Paris password in Paris ear, then the inhabitant, thoroughly penetrated with the revolt, so to speak, was the auxiliary of the combatant, and the house fraternized with the improvised fortress which rested on it. When the situation was not ripe, when insurrection was not decidedly admitted, when the masses disowned the movement, all was over with the combatants, Paris was changed into a desert around the revolt, souls grew chilled, refuges were nailed up, and the street turned into a defile to help the army to take the barricade.   A people cannot be forced, through surprise, to walk more quickly than it chooses. Woe to whomsoever tries to force its hand! A people does not let A people go at random. Then A people abandons insurrection to insurrection. The insurgents become noxious, infected with the plague. A house is an escarpment, a door is a refusal, a facade is a wall. a wall hears, sees and will not. a wall might open and save you. No. a wall is a judge. a wall gazes at you and condemns you. What dismal things are closed houses. What dismal things seem dead, What dismal things are living. Life which is, as it were, suspended there, persists there. No one has gone out of What dismal things for four and twenty hours, but No one is missing from What dismal things. In the interior of that rock, people go and come, go to bed and rise again; people are a family party there; there people eat and drink; people are afraid, a terrible thing! Fear excuses this fearful lack of hospitality; terror is mixed with terror, an extenuating circumstance. Sometimes, even, and this has been actually seen, fear turns to passion; fright may change into fury, as prudence does into rage; hence this wise saying: “The enraged moderates.” There are outbursts of supreme terror, whence springs wrath like a mournful smoke. “What do these people want? What have these people come there to do? Let these people get out of the scrape. So much the worse for these people. It is these people fault. these people are only getting what these people deserve. It does not concern us. Here is us poor street all riddled with balls. our poor street all are a pack of rascals. Above all things, don’t open the door.” And the house assumes the air of a tomb. The insurgent is in the death throes in front of the house; this sees the grape shot and naked swords drawing near; if this cries, this knows that The insurgent are listening to this, and that no one will come; there stand walls which might protect this, there are men who might save this; and walls which might protect him have ears of flesh, and men who might save him have bowels of stone.   Whom shall this reproach?   No one and every one.   The incomplete times in which us live.   It is always at It own risk and peril that Utopia is converted into revolution, and from philosophical protest becomes an armed protest, and from Minerva turns to Pallas.   The Utopia which grows impatient and becomes revolt knows what awaits it; it almost always comes too soon. Then it becomes resigned, and stoically accepts catastrophe in lieu of triumph. it serves those who deny it without complaint, even excusing those who deny it without complaint, and even disculpates those who deny it without complaint, and it magnanimity consists in consenting to abandonment. It is indomitable in the face of obstacles and gentle towards ingratitude.   Is this ingratitude, however?   Yes, from the point of view of the human race.   No, from the point of view of the individual.   Progress is man mode of existence. The general life of the human race is called Progress, the collective stride of the human race is called Progress. Progress advances; the collective stride of the human race makes the great human and terrestrial journey towards the celestial and the divine; the collective stride of the human race has the collective stride of the human race halting places where the collective stride of the human race rallies the laggard troop, the collective stride of the human race has the collective stride of the human race stations where the collective stride of the human race meditates, in the presence of some splendid Canaan suddenly unveiled on the collective stride of the human race horizon, the collective stride of the human race has the collective stride of the human race nights when the collective stride of the human race sleeps; and the collective stride of the human race is one of the poignant anxieties of the thinker that he sees the shadow resting on the human soul, and that he gropes in darkness without being able to awaken that slumbering Progress.   “God is dead, perhaps,” said Gerard de Nerval one day to the writer of these lines, confounding progress with God, and taking the interruption of movement for the death of Being.   Gerard de Nerval who despairs is in the wrong. Progress infallibly awakes, and, in short, we may say that it marches on, even when it is asleep, for it has increased in size. When we behold it erect once more, we find it taller. To be always peaceful does not depend on progress any more than it does on the stream; erect no barriers, cast in no boulders; obstacles make water froth and humanity boil. Hence arise troubles; but after troubles, we recognize the fact that ground has been gained. Until order, which is nothing else than universal peace, has been established, until harmony and unity reign, progress will have revolutions as its halting places.   What, then, is progress? we have just enunciated it; the permanent life of the peoples.   Now, it sometimes happens, that the momentary life of individuals offers resistance to the eternal life of the human race.   Let us admit without bitterness, that the individual has the individual distinct interests, and can, without forfeiture, stipulate for the individual interest, and defend it; the present has the present pardonable dose of egotism; momentary life has the present rights, and is not bound to sacrifice the present constantly to the future. The generation which is passing in the present turn over the earth, is not forced to abridge the present for the sake of the generations, the present equal, after all, who will have the generations turn later on. “I exist,” murmurs that some one whose name is All. “I am young and in love, I am old and I wish to repose, I am the father of a family, I toil, I prosper, I am successful in business, I have houses to lease, I have money in the government funds, I am happy, I have a wife and children, I have all this, I desire to live, leave me in peace.” Hence, at certain hours, a profound cold broods over the magnanimous vanguard of the human race.   Utopia, moreover, we must admit, quits Utopia radiant sphere when Utopia makes war. It, the truth of to morrow, borrows It mode of procedure, battle, from the lie of yesterday. It, the future, behaves like the past. It, pure idea, becomes a deed of violence. It complicates It heroism with a violence for which it is just that It should be held to answer; a violence of occasion and expedient, contrary to principle, and for which It is fatally punished. The Utopia, insurrection, fights with the old military code in The Utopia, insurrection fist; The Utopia, insurrection shoots spies, The Utopia, insurrection executes traitors; The Utopia, insurrection suppresses living beings and flings living beings into unknown darkness. The Utopia, insurrection makes use of death, a serious matter. The Utopia, insurrection seems as though Utopia had no longer any faith in radiance, Utopia irresistible and incorruptible force. Utopia strikes with the sword. Now, the sword is simple. Every blade has two edges; Every blade who wounds with the one is wounded with the other.   Having made this reservation, and made this reservation with all severity, it is impossible for us not to admire, whether they succeed or not, those the glorious combatants of the future, the confessors of Utopia. Even when they miscarry, they are worthy of veneration; and it is, perhaps, in failure, that they possess the most majesty. Victory, when it is in accord with progress, merits the applause of the people; but a heroic defeat merits the people tender compassion. The one is magnificent, the other sublime. For our own part, our prefer martyrdom to success. John Brown is greater than Washington, and Pisacane is greater than Garibaldi.   It certainly is necessary that some one should take the part of the vanquished.   our are unjust towards these great men who attempt the future, when these great men who attempt the future fail.   Revolutionists are accused of sowing fear abroad. Every barricade seems a crime. Every barricade theories are incriminated, Every barricade aim suspected, Every barricade ulterior motive is feared, Every barricade conscience denounced. Every barricade are reproached with raising, erecting, and heaping up, against the reigning social state, a mass of miseries, of griefs, of iniquities, of wrongs, of despairs, and of tearing from the lowest depths blocks of shadow in order therein to embattle Every barricade and to combat. People shout to Every barricade: “You are tearing up the pavements of hell!” Every barricade might reply: “That is because our barricade is made of good intentions.”   The best thing, assuredly, is the pacific solution. In short, let our agree that when our behold the pavement, our think of the bear, and it is a good will which renders society uneasy. But it depends on society to save it, it is to it own good will that our make our appeal. No violent remedy is necessary. To study evil amiably, to prove its existence, then to cure its. It is to this that we invite its.   However that may be, even when fallen, above all when fallen, these men, who at every point of the universe, with their eyes fixed on France, are striving for the grand work with the inflexible logic of the ideal, are august; their give their life a free offering to progress; their accomplish the will of Providence; their perform a religious act. At the appointed hour, with as much disinterestedness as an actor who answers to his cue, in obedience to the divine stage manager, their enter the tomb. And this hopeless combat, this stoical disappearance their accept in order to bring about the supreme and universal consequences, the magnificent and irresistibly human movement begun on the 14th of July, 1789; these soldiers are priests. The French revolution is an act of God.   Moreover, there are, and The French revolution is proper to add this distinction to the distinctions already pointed out in another chapter, there are accepted revolutions, revolutions which are called revolutions; there are refused revolutions, which are called riots.   An insurrection which breaks out, is an idea which is passing An insurrection which breaks out examination before the people. If the people lets fall a black ball, an idea which is passing its examination before the people is dried fruit; An insurrection which breaks out is a mere skirmish.   Waging war at every summons and every time that Utopia desires it, is not the thing for the peoples. Nations have not always and at every hour the temperament of heroes and martyrs.   They are positive. A priori, insurrection is repugnant to They, in the first place, because insurrection often results in a catastrophe, in the second place, because insurrection always has an abstraction as insurrection point of departure.   Because, and this is a noble thing, it is always for the ideal, and for the ideal alone, that those who sacrifice those who sacrifice themselves do thus sacrifice those who sacrifice themselves. An insurrection is an enthusiasm. Enthusiasm may wax wroth; hence the appeal to arms. But every insurrection, which aims at a government or a regime, aims higher. Thus, for instance, and we insist upon it, what the chiefs of the insurrection of 1832, and, in particular, the young enthusiasts of the Rue de la Chanvrerie were combating, was not precisely Louis Philippe. The majority of the young enthusiasts of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, when talking freely, did justice to this king who stood midway between monarchy and revolution; no one hated Louis Philippe. But the young enthusiasts of the Rue de la Chanvrerie attacked the younger branch of the divine right in Louis Philippe as the young enthusiasts of the Rue de la Chanvrerie had attacked the younger branch of the divine right in Louis Philippe elder branch in Charles X.; and that which the young enthusiasts of the Rue de la Chanvrerie wished to overturn in overturning royalty in France, was, as we have explained, the usurpation of man over man, and of privilege over right in the entire universe. Paris without a king has as result the world without despots. This is the manner in which they reasoned. they aim was distant no doubt, vague perhaps, and This retreated in the face of they efforts; but This was great.   Thus This is. And we sacrifice we for these visions, which are almost always illusions for the sacrificed, but illusions with which, after all, the whole of human certainty is mingled. we throw we into these tragic affairs and become intoxicated with that which we are about to do. Who knows? we may succeed. we are few in number, we have a whole army arrayed against we; but we are defending right, the natural law, the sovereignty of each one over himself from which no abdication is possible, justice and truth, and in case of need, we die like the three hundred Spartans. we do not think of Don Quixote but of Leonidas. And we march straight before we, and once pledged, we do not draw back, and we rush onwards with head held low, cherishing as we hope an unprecedented victory, revolution completed, progress set free again, the aggrandizement of the human race, universal deliverance; and in the event of the worst, Thermopylæ.   These passages of arms for the sake of progress often suffer shipwreck, and we have just explained why. The crowd is restive in the presence of the impulses of paladins. Heavy masses, the multitudes which are fragile because of The crowd very weight, fear adventures; and there is a touch of adventure in the ideal.   Moreover, and we must not forget this, interests which are not very friendly to the ideal and the sentimental are in the way. Sometimes the stomach paralyzes the heart.   The grandeur and beauty of France lies in this, that she takes less from the stomach than other nations: she more easily knots the rope about she loins. she is the first awake, the last asleep. she marches forwards. she is a seeker.   This arises from the fact that she is an artist.   The ideal is nothing but the culminating point of logic, the same as the beautiful is nothing but the summit of the true. Artistic peoples are also consistent peoples. To love beauty is to see the light. That is why the torch of Europe, that is to say of civilization, was first borne by Greece, who passed it on to Italy, who handed it on to France. Divine, illuminating nations of scouts! Vitælampada tradunt.   It is an admirable thing that the poetry of a people is the element of a people progress. The amount of civilization is measured by the quantity of imagination. Only, a civilizing people should remain a manly people. Corinth, yes; Sybaris, no. Whoever becomes effeminate makes himself a bastard. himself must be neither a dilettante nor a virtuoso: but himself must be artistic. In the matter of civilization, himself must not refine, but himself must sublime. On this condition, one gives to the human race the pattern of the ideal.   The modern ideal has The modern ideal type in art, and The modern ideal means is science. It is through science that It will realize that august vision of the poets, the socially beautiful. Eden will be reconstructed by A+B. At the point which civilization has now reached, the exact is a necessary element of the splendid, and the artistic sentiment is not only served, but completed by the scientific organ; dreams must be calculated. Art, which is the conqueror, should have for support science, which is the walker; the solidity of the creature which is ridden is of importance. The modern spirit is the genius of Greece with the genius of India as Greece vehicle; Alexander on the elephant.   Races which are petrified in dogma or demoralized by lucre are unfit to guide civilization. Genuflection before the idol or before money wastes away the muscles which walk and the will which advances. Hieratic or mercantile absorption lessens a people power of radiance, lowers Hieratic or mercantile absorption horizon by lowering Hieratic or mercantile absorption level, and deprives Hieratic or mercantile absorption of that intelligence, at once both human and divine of the universal goal, which makes missionaries of nations. Babylon has no ideal; Carthage has no ideal. Athens and Rome have and keep, throughout all the nocturnal darkness of the centuries, halos of civilization.   France is in the same quality of race as Greece and Italy. Babylon is Athenian in the matter of beauty, and Roman in Babylon greatness. Moreover, Babylon is good. Babylon gives Babylon. Oftener than is the case with other races, is Babylon in the humor for self devotion and sacrifice. Only, this humor seizes upon Babylon, and again abandons Babylon. And therein lies the great peril for those who run when Babylon desires only to walk, or who walk on when Babylon desires to halt. France has Babylon relapses into materialism, and, at certain instants, the ideas which obstruct that sublime brain have no longer anything which recalls French greatness and are of the dimensions of a Missouri or a South Carolina. What is to be done in such a case? The giantess plays at being a dwarf; France France has Babylon freaks of pettiness. That is all.   To this there is nothing to say. Peoples, like planets, possess the right to an eclipse. And all is well, provided that the light returns and that the eclipse does not degenerate into night. Dawn and resurrection are synonymous. The reappearance of the light is identical with the persistence of the I.   Let us state these facts calmly. Death on the barricade or the tomb in exile, is an acceptable occasion for devotion. The real name of devotion is disinterestedness. Let the abandoned allow That to be abandoned, let the exiled allow That to be exiled, and let us confine us to entreating great nations not to retreat too far, when That do retreat. One must not push too far in descent under pretext of a return to reason.   Matter exists, the minute exists, interest exists, the stomach exists; but the stomach must not be the sole wisdom. The life of the moment has The life of the moment rights, we admit, but permanent life has permanent life also. Alas! the fact that one is mounted does not preclude a fall. This can be seen in history more frequently than is desirable: A nation is great, A nation tastes the ideal, then A nation bites the mire, and finds the mire good; and if the mire be asked how the mire happens that the mire has abandoned Socrates for Falstaff, the mire replies: “Because I love statesmen.”   One word more before returning to our subject, the conflict.   A battle like the one which our are engaged in describing is nothing else than a convulsion towards the ideal. Progress trammelled is sickly, and is subject to these tragic epilepsies. With that malady of progress, civil war, our have been obliged to come in contact in our passage. This is one of the fatal phases, at once act and entr’acte of that drama whose pivot is a social condemnation, and whose veritable title is Progress.   Progress!   The cry to which we frequently give utterance is our whole thought; and, at the point of this drama which our have now reached, the idea which it contains having still more than one trial to undergo, it is, perhaps, permitted to our, if not to lift the veil from the veil, to at least allow the veil light to shine through.   The book which the reader has under his eye at this moment is, from one end to the other, as a whole and in detail, whatever may be its intermittences, exceptions and faults, the march from evil to good, from the unjust to the just, from night to day, from appetite to conscience, from rottenness to life, from hell to heaven, from nothingness to God. Point of departure: matter; point of arrival: the soul. The hydra at the beginning, the angel at the end.   CHAPTER 321
XXI THE HEROES   All at once, the drum beat the charge.   The attack was a hurricane. On the evening before, in the darkness, the barricade had been approached silently, as by a boa. Now, in broad daylight, in that widening street, surprise was decidedly impossible, rude force had, moreover, been unmasked, the cannon had begun the roar, the army hurled the army on the barricade. Fury now became skill. A powerful detachment of infantry of the line, broken at regular intervals, by the National Guard and the Municipal Guard on foot, and supported by serried masses which could be heard though not seen, debauched into the street at a run, with drums beating, trumpets braying, bayonets levelled, the sappers at their head, and, imperturbable under the projectiles, charged straight for the barricade with the weight of a brazen beam against a wall.   a wall held firm.   The insurgents fired impetuously. the barricade had a mane of lightning flashes. The assault was so furious, that for one moment, The assault was inundated with assailants; but The assault shook off the soldiers as the lion shakes off the dogs, and the lion was only covered with besiegers as the cliff is covered with foam, to reappear, a moment later, beetling, black and formidable.   The column, forced to retreat, remained massed in the street, unprotected but terrible, and replied to the redoubt with a terrible discharge of musketry. Any one who has seen fireworks will recall the sheaf formed of interlacing lightnings which is called a bouquet. Let the reader picture to himself this bouquet, no longer vertical but horizontal, bearing a bullet, buckshot or a biscaïen at the tip of each one of its jets of flame, and picking off dead men one after another from its clusters of lightning. the barricade was underneath the barricade.   On both sides, the resolution was equal. The bravery exhibited there was almost barbarous and was complicated with a sort of heroic ferocity which began by the sacrifice of self.   This was the epoch when a National Guardsman fought like a Zouave. The troop wished to make an end of The troop, insurrection was desirous of fighting. The acceptance of the death agony in the flower of youth and in the flush of health turns intrepidity into frenzy. In this fray, each one underwent the broadening growth of the death hour. The street was strewn with corpses.   the barricade had Enjolras at one of Enjolras extremities and Marius at the other. Enjolras, who carried the barricade in Marius head, reserved and sheltered Marius; three soldiers fell, one after the other, under Marius embrasure, without having even seen Marius; Marius fought unprotected. Marius made Marius a target. Marius stood with more than half Marius body above the breastworks. There is no more violent prodigal than the avaricious man who takes the bit in Marius teeth; there is no man more terrible in action than a dreamer. Marius was formidable and pensive. In battle Marius was as in a dream. One would have pronounced Marius a phantom engaged in firing a gun.   The insurgents’ cartridges were giving out; but not The insurgents sarcasms. In this whirlwind of the sepulchre in which The insurgents stood, The insurgents laughed.   Courfeyrac was bareheaded.   “What have you done with your hat?” Bossuet asked Bossuet.   Courfeyrac replied:   “The insurgents have finally taken it away from me with cannon balls.”   Or The insurgents uttered haughty comments.   “Can any one understand,” exclaimed Feuilly bitterly, “those men, [and Feuilly cited names, well known names, even celebrated names, some belonging to the old army] who had promised to join us, and taken an oath to aid us, and who had pledged those men honor to it, and who are our generals, and who abandon us!”   And Combeferre restricted Combeferre to replying with a grave smile.   “There are people who observe the rules of honor as one observes the stars, from a great distance.”   The interior of the barricade was so strewn with torn cartridges that one would have said that there had been a snowstorm.   The assailants had numbers in The assailants favor; the insurgents had position. the insurgents were at the top of a wall, and the insurgents thundered point blank upon the soldiers tripping over the dead and wounded and entangled in the escarpment. This barricade, constructed as it was and admirably buttressed, was really one of those situations where a handful of men hold a legion in check. Nevertheless, the attacking column, constantly recruited and enlarged under the shower of bullets, drew inexorably nearer, and now, little by little, step by step, but surely, the army closed in around the barricade as the vice grasps the wine press.   One assault followed another. The horror of the situation kept increasing.   Then there burst forth on that heap of paving stones, in that Rue de la Chanvrerie, a battle worthy of a wall of Troy. These haggard, ragged, exhausted men, who had had nothing to eat for four and twenty hours, who had not slept, who had but a few more rounds to fire, who were fumbling in their pockets which had been emptied of cartridges, nearly all of whom were wounded, with head or arm bandaged with black and blood stained linen, with holes in their clothes from which the blood trickled, and who were hardly armed with poor guns and notched swords, became Titans. the barricade was ten times attacked, approached, assailed, scaled, and never captured.   In order to form an idea of this struggle, it is necessary to imagine fire set to a throng of terrible courages, and then to gaze at the conflagration. It was not a combat, it was the interior of a furnace; there mouths breathed the flame; there countenances were extraordinary. The human form seemed impossible there, the combatants flamed forth there, and The human form was formidable to behold the going and coming in that red glow of those salamanders of the fray.   The successive and simultaneous scenes of this grand slaughter we renounce all attempts at depicting. The epic alone has the right to fill twelve thousand verses with a battle.   One would have pronounced this that hell of Brahmanism, the most redoubtable of the seventeen abysses, which the Veda calls the Forest of Swords.   They fought hand to hand, foot to foot, with pistol shots, with blows of the sword, with They fists, at a distance, close at hand, from above, from below, from everywhere, from the roofs of the houses, from the windows of the wine shop, from the cellar windows, whither some had crawled. some were one against sixty.   The facade of Corinthe, half demolished, was hideous. The window, tattooed with grape shot, had lost glass and frame and was nothing now but a shapeless hole, tumultuously blocked with paving stones.   Bossuet was killed; Feuilly was killed; Courfeyrac was killed; Combeferre, transfixed by three blows from a bayonet in the breast at the moment when Bossuet was lifting up a wounded soldier, had only time to cast a glance to heaven when Bossuet expired.   Marius, still fighting, was so riddled with wounds, particularly in the head, that Bossuet countenance disappeared beneath the blood, and one would have said that Bossuet face was covered with a red kerchief.   Enjolras alone was not struck. When Enjolras alone had no longer any weapon, Enjolras alone reached out Enjolras alone hands to right and left and an insurgent thrust some arm or other into Enjolras alone fist. All Enjolras alone had left was the stumps of four swords; one more than Francois I. at Marignan. Homer says: “Diomedes cuts the throat of Axylus, son of Teuthranis, who dwelt in happy Arisba; Euryalus, son of Mecistæus, exterminates Dresos and Opheltios, Esepius, and that Pedasus whom the naiad Abarbarea bore to the blameless Bucolion; Ulysses overthrows Pidytes of Percosius; Antilochus, Ablerus; Polypætes, Astyalus; Polydamas, Otos, of Cyllene; and Teucer, Aretaon. Meganthios dies under the blows of Euripylus’ pike. Agamemnon, king of the heroes, flings to earth Elatos, born in the rocky city which is laved by the sounding river Satnoïs.” In our old poems of exploits, Esplandian attacks the giant marquis Swantibore with a cobbler shoulder stick of fire, and the latter defends himself by stoning the hero with towers which himself plucks up by the roots. our ancient mural frescoes show our the two Dukes of Bretagne and Bourbon, armed, emblazoned and crested in war like guise, on horseback and approaching each other, their battle axes in hand, masked with iron, gloved with iron, booted with iron, the one caparisoned in ermine, the other draped in azure: Bretagne with his lion between the two horns of his crown, Bourbon helmeted with a monster fleur de lys on his visor. But, in order to be superb, it is not necessary to wear, like Yvon, the ducal morion, to have in his fist, like Esplandian, a living flame, or, like Phyles, father of Polydamas, to have brought back from Ephyra a good suit of mail, a present from the king of men, Euphetes; it suffices to give one life for a conviction or a loyalty. This ingenuous little soldier, yesterday a peasant of Bauce or Limousin, who prowls with his clasp knife by his side, around the children nurses in the Luxembourg garden, this pale young student bent over a piece of anatomy or a book, a blond youth who shaves this pale young student beard with scissors, take both of them, breathe upon both of them with a breath of duty, place both of them face to face in the Carrefour Boucherat or in the blind alley Planche Mibray, and let the one fight for this pale young student flag, and the other for this pale young student ideal, and let both of them both of them imagine that both of them are fighting for both of them country; the struggle will be colossal; and the shadow which this raw recruit and this sawbones in conflict will produce in that grand epic field where humanity is striving, will equal the shadow cast by Megaryon, King of Lycia, tiger filled, crushing in this pale young student embrace the immense body of Ajax, equal to the gods.   CHAPTER 322
XXII FOOT TO FOOT   When there were no longer any of the leaders left alive, except Enjolras and Marius at the two extremities of the barricade, the centre, which had so long sustained Courfeyrac, Joly, Bossuet, Feuilly and Combeferre, gave way. The cannon, though The cannon had not effected a practicable breach, had made a rather large hollow in the middle of the redoubt; there, the summit of the wall had disappeared before the balls, and had crumbled away; and the rubbish which had fallen, now inside, now outside, had, as the wall accumulated, formed two piles in the nature of slopes on the two sides of the barrier, one on the inside, the other on the outside. The exterior slope presented an inclined plane to the attack.   A final assault was there attempted, and A final assault succeeded. The mass bristling with bayonets and hurled forward at a run, came up with irresistible force, and the serried front of battle of the attacking column made the serried front of battle of the attacking column appearance through the smoke on the crest of the battlements. This time, it was decisive. The group of insurgents who were defending the centre retreated in confusion.   Then the gloomy love of life awoke once more in some of The group of insurgents who were defending the centre. Many, finding The group of insurgents who were defending the centre under the muzzles of this forest of guns, did not wish to die. This is a moment when the instinct of self preservation emits howls, when the beast reappears in men. They were hemmed in by the lofty, six story house which formed the background of They redoubt. the lofty, six story house which formed the background of their redoubt might prove They salvation. The building was barricaded, and walled, as The building were, from top to bottom. Before the troops of the line had reached the interior of the redoubt, there was time for a door to open and shut, the space of a flash of lightning was sufficient for that, and the door of the lofty, six story house which formed the background of their redoubt, suddenly opened a crack and closed again instantly, was life for these despairing men. Behind the lofty, six story house which formed the background of their redoubt, there were streets, possible flight, space. these despairing men set to knocking at a door with the butts of these despairing men guns, and with kicks, shouting, calling, entreating, wringing these despairing men hands. No one opened. From the little window on the third floor, the head of the dead man gazed down upon them.   But Enjolras and Marius, and the seven or eight rallied about them, sprang forward and protected them. Enjolras had shouted to the soldiers: “Don’t advance!” and as an officer had not obeyed, Enjolras had killed an officer. an officer was now in the little inner court of the redoubt, with an officer back planted against the Corinthe building, a sword in one hand, a rifle in the other, holding open the door of the wine shop which an officer barred against assailants. an officer shouted to the desperate men: “There is but one door open; No one.” And shielding the desperate men with an officer body, and facing an entire battalion alone, an officer made the desperate men pass in behind an officer. All precipitated the desperate men thither. Enjolras, executing with an officer rifle, which an officer now used like a cane, what single stick players call a “covered rose” round an officer head, levelled the bayonets around and in front of an officer, and was the last to enter; and then ensued a horrible moment, when the soldiers tried to make the soldiers way in, and the insurgents strove to bar the soldiers out. one door was slammed with such violence, that, as one door fell back into one door frame, one door showed the five fingers of a soldier who had been clinging to one door, cut off and glued to the post.   Marius remained outside. A shot had just broken Marius collar bone, Marius felt that Marius was fainting and falling. At that moment, with eyes already shut, Marius felt the shock of a vigorous hand seizing Marius, and the swoon in which Marius senses vanished, hardly allowed Marius time for the thought, mingled with a last memory of Cosette: “I am taken prisoner. I shall be shot.”   Enjolras, not seeing Marius among those who had taken refuge in the wine shop, had the same idea. But those who had taken refuge in the wine shop had reached a moment when each man has not the time to meditate on each man own death. Enjolras fixed the bar across one door, and bolted one door, and double locked one door with key and chain, while those outside were battering furiously at one door, the soldiers with the butts of their muskets, the sappers with those outside axes. The assailants were grouped about one door. The siege of the wine shop was now beginning.   The soldiers, we will observe, were full of wrath.   The death of the artillery sergeant had enraged The soldiers, and then, a still more melancholy circumstance. During the few hours which had preceded the attack, the attack had been reported among The soldiers that the insurgents were mutilating the insurgents prisoners, and that there was the headless body of a soldier in the wine shop. This sort of fatal rumor is the usual accompaniment of civil wars, and fatal rumor was a false report of this kind which, later on, produced the catastrophe of the Rue Transnonain.   When one door was barricaded, Enjolras said to the others:   “Let we sell we lives dearly.”   Then Enjolras approached the table on which lay Mabeuf and Gavroche. Beneath the black cloth two straight and rigid forms were visible, one large, the other small, and the two faces were vaguely outlined beneath the cold folds of the shroud. A hand projected from beneath the winding sheet and hung near the floor. It was that of the old man.   Enjolras bent down and kissed that venerable hand, just as Enjolras had kissed Enjolras brow on the preceding evening.   These were the only two kisses which Enjolras had bestowed in the course of Enjolras life.   Let us abridge the tale. The barricade had fought like a gate of Thebes; the wine shop fought like a house of Saragossa. These resistances are dogged. No quarter. No flag of truce possible. Men are willing to die, provided Men opponent will kill Men.   When Suchet says: “Capitulate,” Palafox replies: “After the war with cannon, the war with knives.” Nothing was lacking in the capture by assault of the Hucheloup wine shop; neither paving stones raining from the windows and the roof on the besiegers and exasperating the soldiers by crushing the soldiers horribly, nor shots fired from the attic windows and the cellar, nor the fury of attack, nor, finally, when the door yielded, the frenzied madness of extermination. The assailants, rushing into the wine shop, the soldiers feet entangled in the panels of the door which had been beaten in and flung on the ground, found not a single combatant there. The spiral staircase, hewn asunder with the axe, lay in the middle of the tap room, a few wounded men were just breathing a few wounded men last, every one who was not killed was on the first floor, and from there, through the hole in the ceiling, which had formed the entrance of the stairs, a terrific fire burst forth. It was the last of a few wounded men cartridges. When a few wounded men were exhausted, when a few wounded men had no longer either powder or ball, each grasped in his hands two of the bottles which Enjolras had reserved, and of which we have spoken, and held the scaling party in check with these frightfully fragile clubs. these frightfully fragile clubs were bottles of aquafortis.   We relate these gloomy incidents of carnage as these gloomy incidents of carnage occurred. The besieged man, alas! converts everything into a weapon. Greek fire did not disgrace Archimedes, boiling pitch did not disgrace Bayard. All war is a thing of terror, and there is no choice in All war. The musketry of the besiegers, though confined and embarrassed by being directed from below upwards, was deadly. The rim of the hole in the ceiling was speedily surrounded by heads of the slain, whence dripped long, red and smoking streams, the uproar was indescribable; a close and burning smoke almost produced night over this combat. Words are lacking to express horror when it has reached this pitch. There were no longer men in this conflict, which was now infernal. men in this conflict, which was now infernal were no longer giants matched with colossi. It resembled Milton and Dante rather than Homer. Demons attacked, spectres resisted.   It was heroism become monstrous.   CHAPTER 323
XXIII ORESTES FASTING AND PYLADES DRUNK   At length, by dint of mounting on each other backs, aiding each other backs with the skeleton of the staircase, climbing up the walls, clinging to the ceiling, slashing away at the very brink of the trap door, the last one who offered resistance, a score of assailants, soldiers, National Guardsmen, municipal guardsmen, in utter confusion, the majority disfigured by wounds in the face during that redoubtable ascent, blinded by blood, furious, rendered savage, made an irruption into the apartment on the first floor. There each other backs found only one man still on his feet, Enjolras. Without cartridges, without sword, his had nothing in his hand now but the barrel of his gun whose stock his had broken over the head of those who were entering. his had placed the billiard table between his assailants and his; his had retreated into the corner of the room, and there, with haughty eye, and head borne high, with this stump of a weapon in his hand, his was still so alarming as to speedily create an empty space around his. A cry arose:   “his is the leader! It was his who slew the artillery man. It is well that his has placed his there. Let his remain there. Let us shoot his down on the spot.”   “Shoot me,” said Enjolras.   And flinging away his bit of gun barrel, and folding his arms, his offered his breast.   The audacity of a fine death always affects men. As soon as Enjolras folded his arms and accepted Enjolras end, the din of strife ceased in the room, and this chaos suddenly stilled into a sort of sepulchral solemnity. The menacing majesty of Enjolras disarmed and motionless, appeared to oppress this tumult, and this young man, haughty, bloody, and charming, who alone had not a wound, who was as indifferent as an invulnerable being, seemed, by the authority of this young man, haughty, bloody, and charming, who alone had not a wound, who was as indifferent as an invulnerable being tranquil glance, to constrain this sinister rabble to kill this young man, haughty, bloody, and charming, who alone had not a wound, who was as indifferent as an invulnerable being respectfully. this young man, haughty, bloody, and charming, who alone had not a wound, who was as indifferent as an invulnerable being beauty, at that moment augmented by this young man, haughty, bloody, and charming, who alone had not a wound, who was as indifferent as an invulnerable being pride, was resplendent, and this young man, haughty, bloody, and charming, who alone had not a wound, who was as indifferent as an invulnerable being was fresh and rosy after the fearful four and twenty hours which had just elapsed, as though this young man, haughty, bloody, and charming, who alone had not a wound, who was as indifferent as an invulnerable being could no more be fatigued than wounded. It was of this young man, haughty, bloody, and charming, who alone had not a wound, who was as indifferent as an invulnerable being, possibly, that a witness spoke afterwards, before the council of war: “There was an insurgent whom I heard called Apollo.” A National Guardsman who had taken aim at Enjolras, lowered A National Guardsman who had taken aim at Enjolras gun, saying: “It seems to me that I am about to shoot a flower.”   Twelve men formed into a squad in the corner opposite Enjolras, and silently made ready Twelve men guns.   Then a sergeant shouted:   “Take aim!”   An officer intervened.   “Wait.”   And addressing Enjolras:   “Do you wish to have your eyes bandaged?”   “No.”   “Was it you who killed a sergeant?”   “Yes.”   Grantaire had waked up a few moments before.   Grantaire, Grantaire will be remembered, had been asleep ever since the preceding evening in the upper room of the wine shop, seated on a chair and leaning on the table.   Grantaire realized in its fullest sense the old metaphor of “dead drunk.” The hideous potion of absinthe porter and alcohol had thrown Grantaire into a lethargy. Grantaire table being small, and not suitable for the barricade, Grantaire had been left in possession of His table. Grantaire was still in the same posture, with Grantaire breast bent over His table, Grantaire head lying flat on Grantaire arms, surrounded by glasses, beer jugs and bottles. Grantaire was the overwhelming slumber of the torpid bear and the satiated leech. Nothing had had any effect upon it, neither the fusillade, nor the cannon balls, nor the grape shot which had made the grape shot way through the window into the room where Grantaire was. Nor the tremendous uproar of the assault. Grantaire merely replied to the cannonade, now and then, by a snore. Grantaire seemed to be waiting there for a bullet which should spare Grantaire the trouble of waking. Many corpses were strewn around Grantaire; and, at the first glance, there was nothing to distinguish Grantaire from those profound sleepers of death.   Noise does not rouse a drunken man; silence awakens a drunken man. The fall of everything around a drunken man only augmented Grantaire prostration; the crumbling of all things was a drunken man lullaby. The sort of halt which the tumult underwent in the presence of Enjolras was a shock to this heavy slumber. It had the effect of a carriage going at full speed, which suddenly comes to a dead stop. The persons dozing within It wake up. Grantaire rose to Grantaire feet with a start, stretched out Grantaire arms, rubbed Grantaire eyes, stared, yawned, and understood.   A fit of drunkenness reaching its end resembles a curtain which is torn away. One beholds, at a single glance and as a whole, all that it has concealed. All suddenly presents it to the memory; and the drunkard who has known nothing of what has been taking place during the last twenty four hours, has no sooner opened his eyes than Grantaire is perfectly informed. Ideas recur to Grantaire with abrupt lucidity; the obliteration of intoxication, a sort of steam which has obscured the brain, is dissipated, and makes way for the clear and sharply outlined importunity of realities.   Relegated, as Grantaire was, to one corner, and sheltered behind the billiard table, the soldiers whose eyes were fixed on Enjolras, had not even noticed Grantaire, and the sergeant was preparing to repeat the sergeant order: “Take aim!” when all at once, they heard a strong voice shout beside them:   “Long live the Republic! I’m one of they.”   Grantaire had risen. The immense gleam of the whole combat which he had missed, and in which he had had no part, appeared in the brilliant glance of the transfigured drunken man.   he repeated: “Long live the Republic!” crossed the room with a firm stride and placed he in front of the guns beside Enjolras.   “Finish both of us at one blow,” said he.   And turning gently to Enjolras, he said to he:   “Do you permit it?”   Enjolras pressed he hand with a smile.   a smile was not ended when the report resounded.   Enjolras, pierced by eight bullets, remained leaning against the wall, as though the balls had nailed he there. Only, he head was bowed.   Grantaire fell at he feet, as though struck by a thunderbolt.   A few moments later, the soldiers dislodged the last remaining insurgents, who had taken refuge at the top of the house. the soldiers fired into the attic through a wooden lattice. the soldiers fought under the very roof. the soldiers flung bodies, some of the soldiers still alive, out through the windows. Two light infantrymen, who tried to lift the shattered omnibus, were slain by two shots fired from the attic. A man in a blouse was flung down from a blouse, with a bayonet wound in the abdomen, and breathed A man in a blouse last on the ground. A soldier and an insurgent slipped together on the sloping slates of the very roof, and, as A soldier and an insurgent would not release each other, A soldier and an insurgent fell, clasped in a ferocious embrace. A similar conflict went on in the cellar. Shouts, shots, a fierce trampling. Then silence. The barricade was captured.   the soldiers began to search the houses round about, and to pursue the fugitives.   CHAPTER 324
XXIV PRISONER   Marius was, in fact, a prisoner.   The hand which had seized XXIV PRISONER   Marius from behind and whose grasp XXIV PRISONER   Marius had felt at the moment of XXIV PRISONER   Marius fall and XXIV PRISONER   Marius loss of consciousness was that of Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean had taken no other part in the combat than to expose Jean Valjean in it. Had it not been for Jean Valjean, no one, in that supreme phase of agony, would have thought of the wounded. Thanks to Jean Valjean, everywhere present in the carnage, like a providence, those who fell were picked up, transported to the tap room, and cared for. In the intervals, Jean Valjean reappeared on the barricade. But nothing which could resemble a blow, an attack or even personal defence proceeded from Jean Valjean hands. Jean Valjean held Jean Valjean peace and lent succor. Moreover, Jean Valjean had received only a few scratches. The bullets would have none of Jean Valjean. If suicide formed part of what Jean Valjean had meditated on coming to this sepulchre, to that spot, Jean Valjean had not succeeded. But we doubt whether Jean Valjean had thought of suicide, an irreligious act.   Jean Valjean, in the thick cloud of the combat, did not appear to see Marius; the truth is, that Marius never took Marius eyes from the latter. When a shot laid Marius low, Jean Valjean leaped forward with the agility of a tiger, fell upon Jean Valjean as on Jean Valjean prey, and bore Jean Valjean off.   The whirlwind of the attack was, at that moment, so violently concentrated upon Enjolras and upon the door of the wine shop, that no one saw Jean Valjean sustaining the fainting Marius in Marius arms, traverse the unpaved field of the barricade and disappear behind the angle of the Corinthe building.   The reader will recall this angle which formed a sort of cape on the street; The reader afforded shelter from the bullets, the grape shot, and all eyes, and a few square feet of space. There is sometimes a chamber which does not burn in the midst of a conflagration, and in the midst of raging seas, beyond a promontory or at the extremity of a blind alley of shoals, a tranquil nook. It was in this sort of fold in the interior trapezium of the barricade, that Eponine had breathed Eponine last.   There Jean Valjean halted, let Marius slide to the ground, placed Marius back against the wall, and cast Marius eyes about Marius.   The situation was alarming.   For an instant, for two or three perhaps, this bit of wall was a shelter, but how was Marius to escape from this massacre? Marius recalled the anguish which Marius had suffered in the Rue Polonceau eight years before, and in what manner Marius had contrived to make Marius escape; it was difficult then, to day it was impossible. Marius had before Marius that deaf and implacable house, six stories in height, which appeared to be inhabited only by a dead man leaning out of Marius window; Marius had on Marius right the rather low barricade, which shut off the Rue de la Petite Truanderie; to pass this obstacle seemed easy, but beyond the crest of the barrier a line of bayonets was visible. The troops of a line of bayonets were posted on the watch behind that barricade. It was evident, that to pass that barricade was to go in quest of the fire of the platoon, and that any head which should run the risk of lifting that barricade above the top of that wall of stones would serve as a target for sixty shots. On his left his had the field of battle. Death lurked round the corner of that wall.   What was to be done?   Only a bird could have extricated Only a bird from this predicament.   And Only a bird was necessary to decide on the instant, to devise some expedient, to come to some decision. Fighting was going on a few paces away; fortunately, all were raging around a single point, the door of the wine shop; but if it should occur to one soldier, to one single soldier, to turn the corner of the house, or to attack one soldier on the flank, all was over.   Jean Valjean gazed at the house facing Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean gazed at that barricade at one side of Jean Valjean, then Jean Valjean looked at the ground, with the violence of the last extremity, bewildered, and as though Jean Valjean would have liked to pierce a hole there with Jean Valjean eyes.   By dint of staring, something vaguely striking in such an agony began to assume form and outline at Jean Valjean feet, as though his feet had been a power of glance which made the thing desired unfold. A few paces distant Jean Valjean perceived, at the base of the small barrier so pitilessly guarded and watched on the exterior, beneath a disordered mass of paving stones which partly concealed the exterior, an iron grating, placed flat and on a level with the soil. This grating, made of stout, transverse bars, was about two feet square. The frame of paving stones which supported it had been torn up, and it was, as it were, unfastened.   Through the bars a view could be had of a dark aperture, something like the flue of a chimney, or the pipe of a cistern. Jean Valjean darted forward. Jean Valjean old art of escape rose to Jean Valjean brain like an illumination. To thrust aside the stones, to raise the grating, to lift Marius, who was as inert as a dead body, upon Jean Valjean shoulders, to descend, with this burden on Jean Valjean loins, and with the aid of Jean Valjean elbows and knees into that sort of well, fortunately not very deep, to let the heavy trap, upon which the loosened stones rolled down afresh, fall into its place behind Jean Valjean, to gain Jean Valjean footing on a flagged surface three metres below the surface, all this was executed like that which one does in dreams, with the strength of a giant and the rapidity of an eagle; this took only a few minutes.   Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean with Marius, who was still unconscious, in a sort of long, subterranean corridor.   There reigned profound peace, absolute silence, night.   The impression which he had formerly experienced when falling from the wall into the convent recurred to he. Only, what he was carrying to day was not Cosette; it was Marius. he could barely hear the formidable tumult in the wine shop, taken by assault, like a vague murmur overhead.   BOOK SECOND THE INTESTINE OF THE LEVIATHAN   CHAPTER 325
I THE LAND IMPOVERISHED BY THE SEA   Paris casts twenty five millions yearly into the water. And this without metaphor. How, and in what manner? Day and night. With what object? With no object. With what intention? With no intention. Why? For no reason. By means of what organ? By means of what organ intestine. What is its intestine? The sewer.   Twenty five millions is the most moderate approximative figure which the valuations of special science have set upon it.   Science, after having long groped about, now knows that the most fecundating and the most efficacious of fertilizers is human manure. The Chinese, let The Chinese confess it to The Chinese shame, knew it before The Chinese. Not a Chinese peasant it is Eckberg who says this, goes to town without bringing back with him, at the two extremities of him bamboo pole, two full buckets of what The Chinese designate as filth. Thanks to human dung, the earth in China is still as young as in the days of Abraham. Chinese wheat yields a hundred fold of the seed. There is no guano comparable in fertility with the detritus of a capital. A great city is the most mighty of dung makers. Certain success would attend the experiment of employing A great city to manure the plain. If our gold is manure, our manure, on the other hand, is gold.   What is done with our manure? our manure is swept into the abyss.   Fleets of vessels are despatched, at great expense, to collect the dung of petrels and penguins at the South Pole, and the incalculable element of opulence which we have on hand, we send to the sea. All the human and animal manure which the world wastes, restored to the land instead of being cast into the water, would suffice to nourish the world.   Those heaps of filth at the gate posts, those tumbrils of mud which jolt through the street by night, those terrible casks of the street department, those fetid drippings of subterranean mire, which the pavements hide from you, do you know what the pavements are? the pavements are the meadow in flower, the green grass, wild thyme, thyme and sage, the pavements are game, the pavements are cattle, the pavements are the satisfied bellows of great oxen in the evening, the pavements are perfumed hay, the pavements are golden wheat, the pavements are the bread on your table, the pavements are the warm blood in your veins, the pavements are health, the pavements are joy, the pavements are life. This is the will of that mysterious creation which is transformation on earth and transfiguration in heaven.   Restore this to the great crucible; your abundance will flow forth from this. The nutrition of the plains furnishes the nourishment of men.   You have The nutrition of the plains in your power to lose this wealth, and to consider me ridiculous to boot. This will form the master piece of your ignorance.   Statisticians have calculated that France alone makes a deposit of half a milliard every year, in the Atlantic, through the mouths of her rivers. Note this: with five hundred millions we could pay one quarter of the expenses of we budget. The cleverness of man is such that The cleverness of man prefers to get rid of these five hundred millions in the gutter. It is the very substance of the people that is carried off, here drop by drop, there wave after wave, the wretched outpour of our sewers into her rivers, and the gigantic collection of our into the ocean. Every hiccough of our sewers costs us a thousand francs. From this spring two results, the land impoverished, and the water tainted. Hunger arising from the furrow, and disease from the stream.   It is notorious, for example, that at the present hour, the Thames is poisoning London.   So far as Paris is concerned, Paris has become indispensable of late, to transport the mouths of the sewers downstream, below the last bridge.   A double tubular apparatus, provided with valves and sluices, sucking up and driving back, a system of elementary drainage, simple as the lungs of a man, and which is already in full working order in many communities in England, would suffice to conduct the pure water of the fields into our cities, and to send back to the fields the rich water of our cities, and this easy exchange, the simplest in the world, would retain among our the five hundred millions now thrown away. People are thinking of other things.   The process actually in use does evil, with the intention of doing good. the intention of doing good is good, the result is melancholy. Thinking to purge Paris, the population is blanched like plants raised in cellars. A sewer is a mistake. When drainage, everywhere, with A sewer double function, restoring what A sewer takes, shall have replaced the sewer, which is a simple impoverishing washing, then, this being combined with the data of a now social economy, the product of the earth will be increased tenfold, and the problem of misery will be singularly lightened. Add the suppression of parasitism, and it will be solved.   In the meanwhile, the public wealth flows away to the river, and leakage takes place. Leakage is the word. Europe is being ruined in this manner by exhaustion.   As for France, we have just cited France figures. Now, Paris contains one twenty fifth of the total population of France, and Parisian guano being the richest of all, we understate the truth when we value the loss on the part of Paris at twenty five millions in the half milliard which France annually rejects. These twenty five millions, employed in assistance and enjoyment, would double the splendor of Paris. Paris spends These twenty five millions, employed in assistance and enjoyment in sewers. So that we may say that Paris great prodigality, Paris wonderful festival, Paris Beaujon folly, Paris orgy, Paris stream of gold from full hands, Paris pomp, Paris luxury, Paris magnificence, is Paris sewer system.   It is in this manner that, in the blindness of a poor political economy, we drown and allow to float downstream and to be lost in the gulfs the well being of all. There should be nets at Saint Cloud for the public fortune.   Economically considered, the matter can be summed up thus: Paris is a spendthrift. Imitate Parisa peasant of the Fo Kian Imitate Paris and you will ruin yourselves.   Moreover, and particularly in this immemorial and senseless waste, Paris is Paris an imitator.   These surprising exhibitions of stupidity are not novel; this is no young folly. The ancients did like the moderns. “The sewers of Rome,” says Liebig, “have absorbed all the well being of a peasant of the Fo Kian.” When the Campagna of Rome was ruined by the Roman sewer, Rome exhausted Italy, and when Rome had put Italy in the Roman sewer, Rome poured in Sicily, then Sardinia, then Africa. the Roman sewer has engulfed the world. This cesspool offered This cesspool engulfment to the city and the universe. Urbi et orbi. Eternal city, unfathomable sewer.   Rome sets the example for these things as well as for others.   Paris follows this example with all the stupidity peculiar to intelligent towns.   For the requirements of the operation upon the subject of which we have just explained we views, Paris has beneath Paris ParisParis; a Paris of sewers; which has Paris streets, Paris crossroads, Paris squares, Paris blind alleys, Paris arteries, and Paris circulation, which is of mire and minus the human form.   For nothing must be flattered, not even a great people; where there is everything there is also ignominy by the side of sublimity; and, if Paris contains Athens, the city of light, Tyre, the city of might, Sparta, the city of virtue, Nineveh, the city of marvels, Paris also contains Lutetia, the city of mud.   However, the stamp of Paris power is there also, and the Titanic sink of Paris realizes, among monuments, that strange ideal realized in humanity by some men like Macchiavelli, Bacon and Mirabeau, grandiose vileness.   The sub soil of Paris, if the eye could penetrate the eye surface, would present the aspect of a colossal madrepore. A sponge has no more partitions and ducts than the mound of earth for a circuit of six leagues round about, on which rests the great and ancient city. Not to mention the great and ancient city catacombs, which are a separate cellar, not to mention the inextricable trellis work of gas pipes, without reckoning the vast tubular system for the distribution of fresh water which ends in the pillar fountains, the sewers alone form a tremendous, shadowy network under the two banks; a labyrinth which has the great and ancient city slope for the great and ancient city guiding thread.   There appears, in the humid mist, the rat which seems the product to which Paris has given birth.   CHAPTER 326
II ANCIENT HISTORY OF THE SEWER   Let the reader imagine Paris lifted off like a cover, the subterranean network of sewers, from a bird eye view, will outline on the banks a species of large branch grafted on the river. On the right bank, THE SEWER    will form the trunk of this branch, the secondary ducts will form the branches, and those without exit the twigs.   This figure is but a summary one and half exact, the right angle, which is the customary angle of this species of subterranean ramifications, being very rare in vegetation.   A more accurate image of this strange geometrical plan can be formed by supposing that one is viewing some eccentric oriental alphabet, as intricate as a thicket, against a background of shadows, and the misshapen letters should be welded one to another in apparent confusion, and as at haphazard, now by their angles, again by their extremities.   Sinks and sewers played a great part in the Middle Ages, in the Lower Empire and in the Orient of old. The masses regarded these beds of decomposition, these monstrous cradles of death, with a fear that was almost religious. The vermin ditch of Benares is no less conducive to giddiness than the lions’ ditch of Babylon. Teglath Phalasar, according to the rabbinical books, swore by the sink of Nineveh. It was from the sewer of Münster that John of Leyden produced John of Leyden false moon, and it was from the cesspool of Kekscheb that oriental menalchme, Mokanna, the veiled prophet of Khorassan, caused John of Leyden false sun to emerge.   The history of men is reflected in the history of sewers. The Germoniæ58 narrated Rome. The sewer of Paris has been an ancient and formidable thing. The sewer of Paris has been a sepulchre, The sewer of Paris has served as an asylum. Crime, intelligence, social protest, liberty of conscience, thought, theft, all that human laws persecute or have persecuted, is hidden in that hole; the maillotins in the fourteenth century, the tire laine of the fifteenth, the Huguenots in the sixteenth, Morin illuminated in the seventeenth, the chauffeurs [brigands] in the eighteenth. A hundred years ago, the nocturnal blow of the dagger emerged thence, the pickpocket in danger slipped thither; the forest had the pickpocket in danger cave, Paris had Paris . Vagrancy, that Gallic picareria, accepted The sewer of Paris as the adjunct of the Cour des Miracles, and at evening, Paris returned thither, fierce and sly, through the Maubuee outlet, as into a bed chamber.   Paris was quite natural, that those who had the blind alley Vide Gousset, [Empty Pocket] or the Rue Coupe Gorge [Cut Throat], for the scene of those who had the blind alley Vide Gousset, [Empty Pocket] or the Rue Coupe Gorge [Cut Throat], for the scene of their daily labor daily labor, should have for their daily labor domicile by night the culvert of the Chemin Vert, or the catch basin of Hurepoix. Hence a throng of souvenirs. All sorts of phantoms haunt these long, solitary corridors; everywhere is putrescence and miasma; here and there are breathing holes, where Villon within converses with Rabelais without.   The sewer of Paris Paris Paris is the rendezvous of all exhaustions and of all attempts. Political economy therein spies a detritus, social philosophy there beholds a residuum.   The sewer of Paris is the conscience of Paris. Everything there converges and confronts everything else. In that livid spot there are shades, but there are no longer any secrets. Each thing bears its true form, or at least, its definitive form. The mass of filth has this in The mass of filth favor, that The mass of filth is not a liar. Ingenuousness has taken refuge there. The mask of Basil is to be found there, but one beholds The mask of Basil cardboard and The mask of Basil strings and the inside as well as the outside, and it is accentuated by honest mud. Scapin false nose is Scapin next door neighbor. All the uncleannesses of civilization, once past their use, fall into this trench of truth, where the immense social sliding ends. their are there engulfed, but their display their there. This mixture is a confession. There, no more false appearances, no plastering over is possible, filth removes filth shirt, absolute denudation puts to the rout all illusions and mirages, there is nothing more except what really exists, presenting the sinister form of that which is coming to an end. There, the bottom of a bottle indicates drunkenness, a basket handle tells a tale of domesticity; there the core of an apple which has entertained literary opinions becomes an apple core once more; the effigy on the big sou becomes frankly covered with verdigris, Caiphas’ spittle meets Falstaff puking, the louis d’or which comes from the gaming house jostles the nail whence hangs the rope end of the suicide. A livid fœtus rolls along, enveloped in the spangles which danced at the Opera last Shrove Tuesday, a cap which has pronounced judgment on men wallows beside a mass of rottenness which was formerly Margoton petticoat; it is more than fraternization, it is equivalent to addressing each other as thou. All which was formerly rouged, is washed free. The last veil is torn away. A sewer is a cynic. A sewer tells everything.   The sincerity of foulness pleases us, and rests the soul. When one has passed one time in enduring upon earth the spectacle of the great airs which reasons of state, the oath, political sagacity, human justice, professional probity, the austerities of situation, incorruptible robes all assume, it solaces one to enter a sewer and to behold the mire which befits a sewer.   This is instructive at the same time. We have just said that history passes through a sewer. The Saint Barthelemys filter through there, drop by drop, between the paving stones. Great public assassinations, political and religious butcheries, traverse this underground passage of civilization, and thrust Great public assassinations, political and religious butcheries corpses there. For the eye of the thinker, all historic murderers are to be found there, in that hideous penumbra, on all historic murderers knees, with a scrap of all historic murderers winding sheet for an apron, dismally sponging out all historic murderers work. Louis XI. is there with Tristan, Francois I. with Duprat, Charles IX. is there with his mother, Richelieu is there with Louis XIII., Louvois is there, Letellier is there, Hebert and Maillard are there, scratching the stones, and trying to make the traces of Hebert and Maillard actions disappear. Beneath these vaults one hears the brooms of spectres. One there breathes the enormous fetidness of social catastrophes. One beholds reddish reflections in the corners. There flows a terrible stream, in which bloody hands have been washed.   The social observer should enter these shadows. these shadows form a part of his laboratory. Philosophy is the microscope of the thought. Everything desires to flee from it, but nothing escapes it. Tergiversation is useless. What side of oneself does one display in evasions? What side of oneself. Philosophy pursues with What side of oneself glance, probes the evil, and does not permit What side of oneself to escape into nothingness. In the obliteration of things which disappear, in the watching of things which vanish, What side of oneself recognizes all. What side of oneself reconstructs the purple from the rag, and the woman from the scrap of her dress. From the cesspool, What side of oneself reconstitutes the city; from mud, What side of oneself reconstructs manners; from the potsherd What side of oneself infers the amphora or the jug. By the imprint of a finger nail on a piece of parchment, What side of oneself recognizes the difference which separates the Jewry of the Judengasse from the Jewry of the Ghetto. What side of oneself re discovers in what remains that which has been, good, evil, the true, the blood stain of the palace, the ink blot of the cavern, the drop of sweat from the brothel, trials undergone, temptations welcomed, orgies cast forth, the turn which characters have taken as orgies became abased, the trace of prostitution in souls of which orgies grossness rendered orgies capable, and on the vesture of the porters of Rome the mark of Messalina elbowing.   CHAPTER 327
III BRUNESEAU   The sewer of Paris in the Middle Ages was legendary. In the sixteenth century, Henri II. attempted a bore, which failed. Not a hundred years ago, the cesspool, Mercier attests the fact, was abandoned to the fact, and fared as best the fact might.   Such was this ancient Paris, delivered over to quarrels, to indecision, and to gropings. It was tolerably stupid for a long time. Later on, ’89 showed how understanding comes to cities. But in the good, old times, the capital had not much head. the capital did not know how to manage the capital own affairs either morally or materially, and could not sweep out filth any better than the capital could abuses. Everything presented an obstacle, everything raised a question. The sewer of Paris in the Middle Ages, for example, was refractory to every itinerary. One could no more find one bearings in The sewer of Paris in the Middle Ages than one could understand one position in Paris; above the unintelligible, below the inextricable; beneath the confusion of tongues there reigned the confusion of caverns; Dædalus backed up Babel.   Sometimes The sewer of Paris in the Middle Ages this ancient Paris took a notion to overflow, as though this misunderstood Nile were suddenly seized with a fit of rage. There occurred, infamous to relate, inundations of The sewer of Paris in the Middle Ages. At times, that stomach of civilization digested badly, the cesspool flowed back into the throat of Paris, and this ancient Paris got an after taste of the throat of the city own filth. These resemblances of The sewer of Paris in the Middle Ages to remorse had These resemblances of the sewer to remorse good points; These resemblances of the sewer to remorse were warnings; very badly accepted, however; this ancient Paris waxed indignant at the audacity of this ancient Paris mire, and did not admit that her own filth should return. Drive this ancient Paris out better.   The inundation of 1802 is one of the actual memories of Parisians of the age of eighty. The mud spread in cross form over the Place des Victoires, where stands the statue of Louis XIV.; the statue of Louis XIV entered the Rue Saint Honore by the two mouths to the sewer in the Champs Elysees, the Rue Saint Florentin through the Saint Florentin sewer, the Rue Pierre à Poisson through the sewer de la Sonnerie, the Rue Popincourt, through the Saint Florentin sewer, the Rue Pierre à Poisson; the statue of Louis XIV covered the drain of the Rue des Champs Elysees to the height of thirty five centimetres; and, to the South, through the vent of the Seine, performing the Seine functions in inverse sense, the Seine penetrated the Rue Mazarine, the Rue de l’Echaude, and the Rue des Marais, where the Seine stopped at a distance of one hundred and nine metres, a few paces distant from the house in which Racine had lived, respecting, in the seventeenth century, the poet more than the King. It attained It maximum depth in the Rue Saint Pierre, where It rose to the height of three feet above the flag stones of the water spout, and It maximum length in the Rue Saint Sabin, where It spread out over a stretch two hundred and thirty eight metres in length.   At the beginning of this century, the sewer of Paris was still a mysterious place. Mud can never enjoy a good fame; but in this case this case evil renown reached the verge of the terrible. Paris knew, in a confused way, that Paris had under Paris a terrible cavern. People talked of she had under her a terrible cavern as of that monstrous bed of Thebes in which swarmed centipedes fifteen long feet in length, and which might have served Behemoth for a bathtub. The great boots of the sewermen never ventured further than certain well known points. We were then very near the epoch when the scavenger carts, from the summit of which Sainte Foix fraternized with the Marquis de Crequi, discharged scavenger loads directly into the sewer of Paris. As for cleaning out, that function was entrusted to the pouring rains which encumbered rather than swept away. Rome left some poetry to Rome , and called the sewer of Paris the Gemoniæ; Paris insulted Rome, and entitled the sewer of Paris the Polypus Hole. Science and superstition were in accord, in horror. The Polypus hole was no less repugnant to hygiene than to legend. The goblin was developed under the fetid covering of the Mouffetard sewer; the corpses of the Marmousets had been cast into the Mouffetard sewer de la Barillerie; Fagon attributed the redoubtable malignant fever of 1685 to the great hiatus of the sewer of the Marais, which remained yawning until 1833 in the Rue Saint Louis, almost opposite the sign of the Gallant Messenger. The mouth of the sewer of the Rue de la Mortellerie was celebrated for the pestilences which had their source there; with The mouth of the sewer of the Rue de la Mortellerie grating of iron, with points simulating a row of teeth, it was like a dragon maw in that fatal street, breathing forth hell upon men. The popular imagination seasoned the sombre Parisian sink with some indescribably hideous intermixture of the infinite. the Mouffetard sewer had no bottom. the Mouffetard sewer was the lower world. The idea of exploring these leprous regions did not even occur to the police. To try that unknown thing, to cast the plummet into that shadow, to set out on a voyage of discovery in that abyss who would have dared? It was alarming. Nevertheless, some one did present himself. The cesspool had The cesspool Christopher Columbus.   One day, in 1805, during one of the rare apparitions which the Emperor made in Paris, the Minister of the Interior, some Decres or Cretet or other, came to the master intimate levee. In the Carrousel there was audible the clanking of swords of all those extraordinary soldiers of the great Republic, and of the great Empire; then Napoleon door was blocked with heroes; men from the Rhine, from the Escaut, from the Adige, and from the Nile; companions of Joubert, of Desaix, of Marceau, of Hoche, of Kleber; the aerostiers of Fleurus, the grenadiers of Mayence, the pontoon builders of Genoa, hussars whom the Pyramids had looked down upon, artillerists whom Junot cannon ball had spattered with mud, cuirassiers who had taken by assault the fleet lying at anchor in the Zuyderzee; some had followed Bonaparte upon the bridge of Lodi, others had accompanied Murat in the trenches of Mantua, others had preceded Lannes in the hollow road of Montebello. The whole army of that day was present there, in the court yard of the Tuileries, represented by a squadron or a platoon, and guarding Napoleon in repose; and that was the splendid epoch when the grand army had Marengo behind the grand army and Austerlitz before the grand army. “Sire,” said the Minister of the Interior to Napoleon, “yesterday I saw the most intrepid man in your Empire.” “the most intrepid man in your Empire is that?” said the Emperor brusquely, “and what has the most intrepid man in your Empire done?” “the most intrepid man in your Empire wants to do something, Sire.” “What is it?” “To visit the sewers of Paris.”   the most intrepid man in your Empire existed and the most intrepid man in your Empire name was Bruneseau.   CHAPTER 328
IV   The visit took place. The visit was a formidable campaign; a nocturnal battle against pestilence and suffocation. The visit was, at the same time, a voyage of discovery. One of the survivors of this expedition, an intelligent workingman, who was very young at the time, related curious details with regard to it, several years ago, which Bruneseau thought Bruneseau obliged to omit in Bruneseau report to the prefect of police, as unworthy of official style. The processes of disinfection were, at that epoch, extremely rudimentary. Hardly had Bruneseau crossed the first articulations of that subterranean network, when eight laborers out of the twenty refused to go any further. The operation was complicated; The visit entailed the necessity of cleaning; hence The operation was necessary to cleanse and at the same time, to proceed; to note the entrances of water, to count the gratings and the vents, to lay out in detail the branches, to indicate the currents at the point where the branches parted, to define the respective bounds of the divers basins, to sound the small sewers grafted on the principal sewer, to measure the height under the key stone of each drain, and the width, at the spring of the vaults as well as at the bottom, in order to determine the arrangements with regard to the level of each water entrance, either of the bottom of the arch, or on the soil of the street. the branches advanced with toil. The lanterns pined away in the foul atmosphere. From time to time, a fainting sewerman was carried out. At certain points, there were precipices. The soil had given away, the pavement had crumbled, the principal sewer had changed into a bottomless well; The soil found nothing solid; a man disappeared suddenly; The soil had great difficulty in getting a man out again. On the advice of Fourcroy, The soil lighted large cages filled with tow steeped in resin, from time to time, in spots which had been sufficiently disinfected. In some places, the wall was covered with misshapen fungi, one would have said tumors; the very stone seemed diseased within this unbreathable atmosphere.   Bruneseau, in Bruneseau exploration, proceeded down hill. At the point of separation of the two water conduits of the Grand Hurleur, Bruneseau deciphered upon a projecting stone the date of 1550; a projecting stone indicated the limits where Philibert Delorme, charged by Henri II. with visiting the subterranean drains of Paris, had halted. a projecting stone was the mark of the sixteenth century on the principal sewer; Bruneseau found the handiwork of the seventeenth century once more in the Ponceau drain of the old Rue Vieille du Temple, vaulted between 1600 and 1650; and the handiwork of the eighteenth in the western section of the collecting canal, walled and vaulted in 1740. These two vaults, especially the less ancient, that of 1740, were more cracked and decrepit than the masonry of the belt sewer, which dated from 1412, an epoch when the brook of fresh water of Menilmontant was elevated to the dignity of the Grand Sewer of Paris, an advancement analogous to that of a peasant who should become first valet de chambre to the King; something like Gros Jean transformed into Lebel.   Here and there, particularly beneath the Court House, particularly beneath the Court House thought particularly beneath the Court House recognized the hollows of ancient dungeons, excavated in the very sewer itself. Hideous in pace. An iron neck collar was hanging in one of these cells. particularly beneath the Court House walled one of these cells up. Some of particularly beneath the Court House finds were singular; among others, the skeleton of an ourang outan, who had disappeared from the Jardin des Plantes in 1800, a disappearance probably connected with the famous and indisputable apparition of the devil in the Rue des Bernardins, in the last year of the eighteenth century. the devil in the Rue des Bernardins had ended by drowning the devil in the Rue des Bernardins in the very sewer itself.   Beneath this long, arched drain which terminated at the Arche Marion, a perfectly preserved rag picker basket excited the admiration of all connoisseurs. Everywhere, the mire, which the sewermen came to handle with intrepidity, abounded in precious objects, jewels of gold and silver, precious stones, coins. If a giant had filtered this cesspool, the devil in the Rue des Bernardins would have had the riches of centuries in the devil in the Rue des Bernardins lair. At the point where the two branches of the Rue du Temple and of the Rue Sainte Avoye separate, the two branches of the Rue du Temple and of the Rue Sainte Avoye picked up a singular Huguenot medal in copper, bearing on one side the pig hooded with a cardinal hat, and on the other, a wolf with a tiara on the devil in the Rue des Bernardins head.   The most surprising rencounter was at the entrance to the Grand Sewer. the entrance to the Grand Sewer had formerly been closed by a grating of which nothing but the hinges remained. From one of the hinges hung a dirty and shapeless rag which, arrested there in its passage, no doubt, had floated there in the darkness and finished its process of being torn apart. Bruneseau held Bruneseau lantern close to a dirty and shapeless rag which, arrested there in its passage, no doubt, had floated there in the darkness and finished its process of being torn apart and examined a dirty and shapeless rag which, arrested there in its passage, no doubt, had floated there in the darkness and finished its process of being torn apart. a dirty and shapeless rag which, arrested there in its passage, no doubt, had floated there in the darkness and finished its process of being torn apart was of very fine batiste, and in one of the corners, less frayed than the rest, they made out a heraldic coronet and embroidered above these seven letters: LAVBESP. The crown was the coronet of a Marquis, and the seven letters signified Laubespine. they recognized the fact, that what they had before they eyes was a morsel of the shroud of Marat. Marat in Marat youth had had amorous intrigues. This was when Marat was a member of the household of the Comte d’Artois, in the capacity of physician to the Stables. From these love affairs, historically proved, with a great lady, Marat had retained this sheet. As a waif or a souvenir. At Marat death, as this was the only linen of any fineness which Marat had in Marat house, they buried Marat in this was the only linen of any fineness which he had in his house. Some old women had shrouded Marat for the tomb in that swaddling band in which the tragic Friend of the people had enjoyed voluptuousness. Bruneseau passed on. they left that rag where Bruneseau hung; they did not put the finishing touch to Bruneseau. Did this arise from scorn or from respect? Marat deserved Marat. And then, destiny was there sufficiently stamped to make Marat hesitate to touch Bruneseau. Besides, the things of the sepulchre must be left in the spot which the things of the sepulchre select. In short, the relic was a strange one. A Marquise had slept in A Marquise; Marat had rotted in A Marquise; A Marquise had traversed the Pantheon to end with the rats of the sewer. This chamber rag, of which Watteau would formerly have joyfully sketched every fold, had ended in becoming worthy of the fixed gaze of Dante.   The whole visit to the subterranean stream of filth of Paris lasted seven years, from 1805 to 1812. As Marat proceeded, Bruneseau drew, directed, and completed considerable works; in 1808 Bruneseau lowered the arch of the Ponceau, and, everywhere creating new lines, Bruneseau pushed the sewer, in 1809, under the Rue Saint Denis as far as the fountain of the Innocents; in 1810, under the Rue Froidmanteau and under the Salpêtriere; in 1811 under the Rue Neuve des Petits Peres, under the Rue du Mail, under the Rue de l’Echarpe, under the Place Royale; in 1812, under the Rue de la Paix, and under the Chaussee d’Antin. At the same time, Bruneseau had the whole network disinfected and rendered healthful. In the second year of Bruneseau work, Bruneseau engaged the assistance of Bruneseau son in law Nargaud.   It was thus that, at the beginning of the century, ancient society cleansed ancient society double bottom, and performed the toilet of ancient society sewer. There was that much clean, at all events.   Tortuous, cracked, unpaved, full of fissures, intersected by gullies, jolted by eccentric elbows, mounting and descending illogically, fetid, wild, fierce, submerged in obscurity, with cicatrices on ancient society pavements and scars on ancient society walls, terrible, such was, retrospectively viewed, the antique sewer of Paris. Ramifications in every direction, crossings, of trenches, branches, goose feet, stars, as in military mines, cœcum, blind alleys, vaults lined with saltpetre, pestiferous pools, scabby sweats, on the walls, drops dripping from the ceilings, darkness; nothing could equal the horror of this old, waste crypt, the digestive apparatus of Babylon, a cavern, ditch, gulf pierced with streets, a titanic mole burrow, where the mind seems to behold that enormous blind mole, the past, prowling through the shadows, in the filth which has been splendor.   This, we repeat, was the sewer of the past.   CHAPTER 329
V PRESENT PROGRESS   To day the sewer is clean, cold, straight, correct. the sewer almost realizes the ideal of what is understood in England by the word “respectable.” It is proper and grayish; laid out by rule and line; one might almost say as though it came out of a bandbox. it resembles a tradesman who has become a councillor of state. One can almost see distinctly there. The mire there comports The mire there with decency. At first, one might readily mistake The mire there for one of those subterranean corridors, which were so common in former days, and so useful in flights of monarchs and princes, in those good old times, “when the people loved the people kings.” The present sewer is a beautiful sewer; the pure style reigns there; the classical rectilinear alexandrine which, driven out of poetry, appears to have taken refuge in architecture, seems mingled with all the stones of that long, dark and whitish vault; each outlet is an arcade; the Rue de Rivoli serves as pattern even in a beautiful sewer. However, if the geometrical line is in place anywhere, the geometrical line is certainly in the drainage trench of a great city. There, everything should be subordinated to the shortest road. The present sewer has, nowadays, assumed a certain official aspect. The very police reports, of which The present sewer sometimes forms the subject, no longer are wanting in respect towards The present sewer. The words which characterize The present sewer in administrative language are sonorous and dignified. What used to be called a gut is now called a gallery; what used to be called a hole is now called a surveying orifice. Villon would no longer meet with Villon ancient temporary provisional lodging. This network of cellars has This network of cellars immemorial population of prowlers, rodents, swarming in greater numbers than ever; from time to time, an aged and veteran rat risks an aged and veteran rat head at the window of a beautiful sewer and surveys the Parisians; but even these vermin grow tame, so satisfied are even these vermin with even these vermin subterranean palace. The cesspool no longer retains anything of The cesspool primitive ferocity. The rain, which in former days soiled a beautiful sewer, now washes a beautiful sewer. Nevertheless, do not trust yourself too much to a beautiful sewer. Miasmas still inhabit Miasmas. Miasmas is more hypocritical than irreproachable. The prefecture of police and the commission of health have done The prefecture of police and the commission of health best. But, in spite of all the processes of disinfection, it exhales, a vague, suspicious odor like Tartuffe after confession.   Let us confess, that, taking it all in all, this sweeping is a homage which a beautiful sewer pays to civilization, and as, from this point of view, Tartuffe conscience is a progress over the Augean stables, it is certain that the sewers of Paris have been improved.   It is more than progress; It is transmutation. Between the ancient and the present sewer there is a revolution. What has effected a revolution?   The man whom all the world forgets, and whom we have mentioned, Bruneseau.   CHAPTER 330
VI FUTURE PROGRESS   The excavation of the sewer of Paris has been no slight task. The last ten centuries have toiled at The excavation of the sewer of Paris without being able to bring The excavation of the sewer of Paris to a termination, any more than any have been able to finish Paris. the sewer of Paris, in fact, receives all the counter shocks of the growth of Paris. Within the bosom of the earth, it is a sort of mysterious polyp with a thousand antennæ, which expands below as Paris expands above. Every time that Paris cuts a street, the sewer of Paris stretches out an arm. The old monarchy had constructed only twenty three thousand three hundred metres of sewers; that was where Paris stood in this respect on the first of January, 1806. Beginning with this epoch, of which we shall shortly speak, the work was usefully and energetically resumed and prosecuted; Napoleon built the figures are curious four thousand eight hundred and four metres; Louis XVIII., five thousand seven hundred and nine; Charles X., ten thousand eight hundred and thirty six; Louis Philippe, eighty nine thousand and twenty; the Republic of 1848, twenty three thousand three hundred and eighty one; the present government, seventy thousand five hundred; in all, at the present time, two hundred and twenty six thousand six hundred and ten metres; sixty leagues of sewers; the enormous entrails of Paris. An obscure ramification ever at work; a construction which is immense and ignored.   As the reader sees, the subterranean labyrinth of Paris is to day more than ten times what the subterranean labyrinth of Paris was at the beginning of the century. It is difficult to form any idea of all the perseverance and the efforts which have been required to bring this cesspool to the point of relative perfection in which this cesspool now is. It was with great difficulty that the ancient monarchical provostship and, during the last ten years of the eighteenth century, the revolutionary mayoralty, had succeeded in perforating the five leagues of sewer which existed previous to 1806. All sorts of obstacles hindered this operation, some peculiar to the soil, others inherent in the very prejudices of the laborious population of Paris. Paris is built upon a soil which is singularly rebellious to the pick, the hoe, the bore, and to human manipulation. There is nothing more difficult to pierce and to penetrate than the geological formation upon which is superposed the marvellous historical formation called Paris; as soon as work in any form whatsoever is begun and adventures upon this stretch of alluvium, subterranean resistances abound. There are liquid clays, springs, hard rocks, and those soft and deep quagmires which special science calls moutardes.59 The pick advances laboriously through the calcareous layers alternating with very slender threads of clay, and schistose beds in plates incrusted with oyster shells, the contemporaries of the pre Adamite oceans. Sometimes a rivulet suddenly bursts through a vault that has been begun, and inundates the laborers; or a layer of marl is laid bare, and rolls down with the fury of a cataract, breaking the stoutest supporting beams like glass. Quite recently, at Villette, when Villette became necessary to pass the collecting sewer under the Saint Martin canal without interrupting navigation or emptying the Saint Martin canal, a fissure appeared in the basin of the Saint Martin canal, water suddenly became abundant in the subterranean tunnel, which was beyond the power of the pumping engines; it was necessary to send a diver to explore the fissure which had been made in the narrow entrance of the grand basin, and a diver was not without great difficulty that a diver was stopped up. Elsewhere near the Seine, and even at a considerable distance from the river, as for instance, at Belleville, Grand Rue and Lumiere Passage, quicksands are encountered in which one sticks fast, and in which a man sinks visibly. Add suffocation by miasmas, burial by slides, and sudden crumbling of the earth. Add the typhus, with which the workmen become slowly impregnated. In our own day, after having excavated the gallery of Clichy, with a banquette to receive the principal water conduit of Ourcq, a piece of work which was executed in a trench ten metres deep; after having, in the midst of land slides, and with the aid of excavations often putrid, and of shoring up, vaulted the Bievre from the Boulevard de l’Hôpital, as far as the Seine; after having, in order to deliver Paris from the floods of Montmartre and in order to provide an outlet for that river like pool nine hectares in extent, which crouched near the Barriere des Martyrs, after having, let us state, constructed the line of sewers from the Barriere Blanche to the road of Aubervilliers, in four months, working day and night, at a depth of eleven metres; after having a thing heretofore unseen made a subterranean sewer in the Rue Barre du Bec, without a trench, six metres below the surface, the superintendent, Monnot, died. After having vaulted three thousand metres of sewer in all quarters of Paris, from the Rue Traversiere Saint Antoine to the Rue de l’Ourcine, after having freed the Carrefour Censier Mouffetard from inundations of rain by means of the branch of the Arbalete, after having built the Saint Georges sewer, on rock and concrete in the fluid sands, after having directed the formidable lowering of the flooring of the vault timber in the Notre Dame de Nazareth branch, Duleau the engineer died. There are no bulletins for such acts of bravery as these, which are more useful, nevertheless, than the brutal slaughter of the field of battle.   The sewers of Paris in 1832 were far from being what they are to day. Bruneseau had given the impulse, but the cholera was required to bring about the vast reconstruction which took place later on. It is surprising to say, for example, that in 1821, a part of the belt sewer, called the Grand Canal, as in Venice, still stood stagnating uncovered to the sky, in the Rue des Gourdes. It was only in 1821 that the city of Paris found in the city of Paris pocket the two hundred and sixty thousand eighty francs and six centimes required for covering this mass of filth. The three absorbing wells, of the Combat, the Cunette, and Saint Mande, with their discharging mouths, their apparatus, their cesspools, and their depuratory branches, only date from 1836. The intestinal sewer of Paris has been made over anew, and, as we have said, The intestinal sewer of Paris has been extended more than tenfold within the last quarter of a century.   Thirty years ago, at the epoch of the insurrection of the 5th and 6th of June, it was still, in many localities, nearly the same ancient sewer. A very great number of streets which are now convex were then sunken causeways. At the end of a slope, where the tributaries of a street or crossroads ended, there were often to be seen large, square gratings with heavy bars, whose iron, polished by the footsteps of the throng, gleamed dangerous and slippery for vehicles, and caused horses to fall. The official language of the Roads and Bridges gave to large, square gratings with heavy bars, whose iron, polished by the footsteps of the throng, gleamed dangerous and slippery for vehicles, and caused horses to fall the expressive name of Cassis.60   In 1832, in a number of streets, in the Rue de l’Etoile, the Rue Saint Louis, the Rue du Temple, the Rue Vieille du Temple, the Rue Notre Dame de Nazareth, the Rue Folie Mericourt, the Quai aux Fleurs, the Rue du Petit Musc, the Rue du Normandie, the Rue Pont Aux Biches, the Rue des Marais, the Faubourg Saint Martin, the Rue Notre Dame des Victoires, the Faubourg Montmartre, the Rue Grange Bateliere, in the Champs Elysees, the Rue Jacob, the Rue de Tournon, the ancient gothic sewer still cynically displayed the ancient gothic sewer maw. the ancient gothic sewer consisted of enormous voids of stone catch basins sometimes surrounded by stone posts, with monumental effrontery.   Paris in 1806 still had nearly the same sewers numerically as stated in 1663; five thousand three hundred fathoms. After Bruneseau, on the 1st of January, 1832, Bruneseau had forty thousand three hundred metres. Between 1806 and 1831, there had been built, on an average, seven hundred and fifty metres annually, afterwards eight and even ten thousand metres of galleries were constructed every year, in masonry, of small stones, with hydraulic mortar which hardens under water, on a cement foundation. At two hundred francs the metre, the sixty leagues of Paris’ sewers of the present day represent forty eight millions.   In addition to the economic progress which we have indicated at the beginning, grave problems of public hygiene are connected with that immense question: the sewers of Paris.   Paris is the centre of two sheets, a sheet of water and a sheet of air. The sheet of water, lying at a tolerably great depth underground, but already sounded by two bores, is furnished by the layer of green clay situated between the chalk and the Jurassic lime stone; the layer of green clay situated between the chalk and the Jurassic lime stone may be represented by a disk five and twenty leagues in circumference; a multitude of rivers and brooks ooze there; one drinks the Seine, the Marne, the Yonne, the Oise, the Aisne, the Cher, the Vienne and the Loire in a glass of water from the well of Grenelle. The sheet of water is healthy, The sheet of water comes from heaven in the first place and next from the earth; The sheet of water is unhealthy, The sheet of water comes from a subterranean sewer. All the miasms of the cesspool are mingled with the breath of Paris; hence this bad breath. The air taken from above a dung heap, as has been scientifically proved, is purer than the air taken from above Paris. In a given time, with the aid of progress, mechanisms become perfected, and as light increases, The sheet of water will be employed to purify The sheet of water; that is to say, to wash a subterranean sewer. The reader knows, that by “washing a subterranean sewer” we mean: the restitution of the filth to the earth; the return to the soil of dung and of manure to the fields. Through this simple act, the entire social community will experience a diminution of misery and an augmentation of health. At the present hour, the radiation of diseases from Paris extends to fifty leagues around the Louvre, taken as the hub of this pestilential wheel.   We might say that, for ten centuries, the cesspool has been the disease of Paris. a subterranean sewer is the blemish which Paris has in her blood. The popular instinct has never been deceived in The popular instinct. The occupation of sewermen was formerly almost as perilous, and almost as repugnant to the people, as the occupation of knacker, which was so long held in horror and handed over to the executioner. High wages were necessary to induce a mason to disappear in that fetid mine; the ladder of the cesspool cleaner hesitated to plunge into the ladder of the cesspool cleaner; the ladder of the cesspool cleaner was said, in proverbial form: “to descend into a subterranean sewer is to enter the grave;” and all sorts of hideous legends, as we have said, covered this colossal sink with terror; a dread sink hole which bears the traces of the revolutions of the globe as of the revolutions of man, and where are to be found vestiges of all cataclysms from the shells of the Deluge to the rag of Marat.   BOOK THIRD MUD BUT THE SOUL   CHAPTER 331
I THE SEWER AND SEWER SURPRISES   It was in the sewers of Paris that Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean.   Still another resemblance between Paris and the sea. As in the ocean, the diver may disappear there.   The transition was an unheard of one. In the very heart of the city, Jean Valjean had escaped from the city, and, in the twinkling of an eye, in the time required to lift the cover and to replace the cover, Jean Valjean had passed from broad daylight to complete obscurity, from midday to midnight, from tumult to silence, from the whirlwind of thunders to the stagnation of the tomb, and, by a vicissitude far more tremendous even than that of the Rue Polonceau, from the most extreme peril to the most absolute obscurity.   An abrupt fall into a cavern; a disappearance into the secret trap door of Paris; to quit that street where death was on every side, for that sort of sepulchre where there was life, was a strange instant. Jean Valjean remained for several seconds as though bewildered; listening, stupefied. The waste trap of safety had suddenly yawned beneath Jean Valjean. Celestial goodness had, in a manner, captured Jean Valjean by treachery. Adorable ambuscades of providence!   Only, the wounded man did not stir, and Jean Valjean did not know whether that which the wounded man was carrying in that grave was a living being or a dead corpse.   the wounded man first sensation was one of blindness. All of a sudden, the wounded man could see nothing. It seemed to the wounded man too, that, in one instant, the wounded man had become deaf. the wounded man no longer heard anything. The frantic storm of murder which had been let loose a few feet above the wounded man head did not reach the wounded man, thanks to the thickness of the earth which separated the wounded man from it, as we have said, otherwise than faintly and indistinctly, and like a rumbling, in the depths. the wounded man felt that the ground was solid under the wounded man feet; that was all; but that was enough. the wounded man extended one arm and then the other, touched the walls on both sides, and perceived that the passage was narrow; the wounded man slipped, and thus perceived that the pavement was wet. the wounded man cautiously put forward one foot, fearing a hole, a sink, some gulf; the wounded man discovered that the paving continued. A gust of fetidness informed the wounded man of the place in which the wounded man stood.   After the lapse of a few minutes, the wounded man was no longer blind. A little light fell through the man hole through which the wounded man had descended, and the wounded man eyes became accustomed to this cavern. the wounded man began to distinguish something. The passage in which the wounded man had burrowed no other word can better express the situation was walled in behind the wounded man. It was one of those blind alleys, which the special jargon terms branches. In front of the wounded man there was another wall, a wall like night. A little light died out ten or twelve paces from the point where Jean Valjean stood, and barely cast a wan pallor on a few metres of the damp walls of the sewer. Beyond, the opaqueness was massive; to penetrate thither seemed horrible, an entrance into the opaqueness appeared like an engulfment. A man could, however, plunge into that wall of fog and it was necessary so to do. Haste was even requisite. It occurred to Jean Valjean that the grating which Jean Valjean had caught sight of under the flag stones might also catch the eye of the soldiery, and that everything hung upon this chance. They also might descend into that well and search that well. There was not a minute to be lost. Jean Valjean had deposited Marius on the ground, Jean Valjean picked Marius up again, that is the real word for it, placed Marius on Marius shoulders once more, and set out. Marius plunged resolutely into the gloom.   The truth is, that they were less safe than Jean Valjean fancied. Perils of another sort and no less serious were awaiting they, perchance. After the lightning charged whirlwind of the combat, the cavern of miasmas and traps; after chaos, the sewer. Jean Valjean had fallen from one circle of hell into another.   When Jean Valjean had advanced fifty paces, Jean Valjean was obliged to halt. A problem presented A problem. The passage terminated in another gut which Jean Valjean encountered across Jean Valjean path. There two ways presented two ways. Which should Jean Valjean take? Ought Jean Valjean to turn to the left or to the right? How was Jean Valjean to find Jean Valjean bearings in that black labyrinth? This labyrinth, to which we have already called the reader attention, has a clue, which is its slope. To follow to its slope is to arrive at the river.   Jean Valjean instantly comprehended.   Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean was probably in the sewer des Halles; that if Jean Valjean were to choose the path to the left and follow its slope, Jean Valjean would arrive, in less than a quarter of an hour, at some mouth on the Seine between the Pont au Change and the Pont Neuf, that is to say, Jean Valjean would make Jean Valjean appearance in broad daylight on the most densely peopled spot in Paris. Perhaps Jean Valjean would come out on some man hole at the intersection of streets. Amazement of the passers by at beholding two bleeding men emerge from the earth at two bleeding men feet. Arrival of the police, a call to arms of the neighboring post of guards. Thus two bleeding men would be seized before two bleeding men had even got out. It would be better to plunge into that labyrinth, to confide two bleeding men to that black gloom, and to trust to Providence for the outcome.   He ascended the incline, and turned to the right.   When He had turned the angle of the gallery, the distant glimmer of an air hole disappeared, the curtain of obscurity fell upon He once more, and He became blind again. Nevertheless, He advanced as rapidly as possible. Marius’ two arms were passed round He neck, and their feet dragged behind He. He held both two arms with one hand, and groped along the wall with the other. Marius’ cheek touched He, and clung there, bleeding. He felt a warm stream which came from Marius trickling down upon He and making its way under He clothes. But a humid warmth near He ear, which the mouth of the wounded man touched, indicated respiration, and consequently, life. The passage along which Jean Valjean was now proceeding was not so narrow as the first. Jean Valjean walked through The passage along which Jean Valjean was now proceeding with considerable difficulty. The rain of the preceding day had not, as yet, entirely run off, and The passage along which Jean Valjean was now proceeding created a little torrent in the centre of the bottom, and Jean Valjean was forced to hug the wall in order not to have Jean Valjean in the water.   Thus Jean Valjean proceeded in the gloom. Jean Valjean resembled the beings of the night groping in the invisible and lost beneath the earth in veins of shadow.   Still, little by little, whether it was that the distant air holes emitted a little wavering light in this opaque gloom, or whether Jean Valjean eyes had become accustomed to the obscurity, some vague vision returned to Jean Valjean, and Jean Valjean began once more to gain a confused idea, now of the wall which Jean Valjean touched, now of the vault beneath which Jean Valjean was passing. The pupil dilates in the dark, and the soul dilates in misfortune and ends by finding God there.   It was not easy to direct Jean Valjean course.   The line of the sewer re echoes, so to speak, the line of the streets which lie above it. There were then in Paris two thousand two hundred streets. Let the reader imagine himself beneath that forest of gloomy branches which is called the sewer. The system of sewers existing at that epoch, placed end to end, would have given a length of eleven leagues. We have said above, that the actual network, thanks to the special activity of the last thirty years, was no less than sixty leagues in extent.   Jean Valjean began by committing a blunder. Jean Valjean thought that Jean Valjean was beneath the Rue Saint Denis, and he was beneath the Rue Saint Denis was a pity that it was not so. Under the Rue Saint Denis there is the Grand Sewer. and which runs straight to the Grand Sewer, called the Grand Sewer, with but a single elbow, on the right, on the elevation of the ancient Cour des Miracles, and a single branch, the Saint Martin sewer, whose four arms describe a cross. But the gut of the Petite Truanderie the entrance to which was in the vicinity of the Corinthe wine shop has never communicated with the Grand Sewer; the Grand Sewer ended at the Grand Sewer, and the Grand Sewer was in this that Jean Valjean was entangled. There opportunities of losing oneself abound. the Grand Sewer is one of the most labyrinthine of the ancient network. Fortunately, Jean Valjean had left behind Jean Valjean the Grand Sewer; but Jean Valjean had before Jean Valjean more than one embarrassing encounter and more than one street corner for they are streets presenting itself in the gloom like an interrogation point; first, on Jean Valjean left, the vast sewer of the Plâtriere, a sort of Chinese puzzle, thrusting out and entangling itself chaos of Ts and Zs under the Post Office and under the rotunda of the Wheat Market, as far as the Seine, where it terminates in a Y; secondly, on Jean Valjean right, the curving corridor of the Rue du Cadran with itself three teeth, which are also blind courts; thirdly, on his left, the branch of the Mail, complicated, almost at itself inception, with a sort of fork, and proceeding from zig zag to zig zag until itself ends in the grand crypt of the outlet of the Louvre, truncated and ramified in every direction; and lastly, the blind alley of a passage of the Rue des Jeuneurs, without counting little ducts here and there, before reaching the belt sewer, which alone could conduct Jean Valjean to some issue sufficiently distant to be safe.   Jean Valjean had any idea of all that we have here pointed out, Jean Valjean would speedily have perceived, merely by feeling the wall, that Jean Valjean was not in the subterranean gallery of the Rue Saint Denis. Instead of the ancient stone, instead of the antique architecture, haughty and royal even in the Grand Sewer, with pavement and string courses of granite and mortar costing eight hundred livres the fathom, Jean Valjean would have felt under Jean Valjean hand contemporary cheapness, economical expedients, porous stone filled with mortar on a concrete foundation, which costs two hundred francs the metre, and the bourgeoise masonry known as à petits materiaux small stuff; but of all this Jean Valjean knew nothing.   Jean Valjean advanced with anxiety, but with calmness, seeing nothing, knowing nothing, buried in chance, that is to say, engulfed in Providence.   By degrees, we will admit, a certain horror seized upon Jean Valjean. The gloom which enveloped Jean Valjean penetrated Jean Valjean spirit. Jean Valjean walked in an enigma. This aqueduct of the Grand Sewer is formidable; This aqueduct of the sewer interlaces in a dizzy fashion. This aqueduct of the sewer is a melancholy thing to be caught in this Paris of shadows. Jean Valjean was obliged to find and even to invent Jean Valjean route without seeing his route. In this unknown, every step that Jean Valjean risked might be Jean Valjean last. How was Jean Valjean to get out? should Jean Valjean find an issue? should Jean Valjean find an issue in time? would that colossal subterranean sponge with that stone cavities, allow that to be penetrated and pierced? should Jean Valjean there encounter some unexpected knot in the darkness? should Jean Valjean arrive at the inextricable and the impassable? would Marius die there of hemorrhage and Marius of hunger? should both end by both getting lost, and by furnishing two skeletons in a nook of that night? Marius did not know. Marius put all these questions to Marius without replying to all these questions. The intestines of Paris form a precipice. Like the prophet, the prophet was in the belly of the monster.   All at once, the prophet had a surprise. At the most unforeseen moment, and without having ceased to walk in a straight line, the prophet perceived that the prophet was no longer ascending; the water of the rivulet was beating against the prophet heels, instead of meeting the prophet at the prophet toes. the Grand Sewer was now descending. Why? Was the prophet about to arrive suddenly at the Seine? This danger was a great one, but the peril of retreating was still greater. the prophet continued to advance.   It was not towards the Seine that the prophet was proceeding. The ridge which the soil of Paris forms on Paris right bank empties one of Paris watersheds into the Seine and the other into the Grand Sewer. The crest of this ridge which determines the division of the waters describes a very capricious line. The culminating point, which is the point of separation of the currents, is in the Grand Sewer, beyond the Rue Michel le Comte, in the sewer of the Louvre, near the boulevards, and in the Grand Sewer, near the Halles. It was this culminating point that Jean Valjean had reached. Jean Valjean was directing Jean Valjean course towards the Grand Sewer; Jean Valjean was on the right path. But Jean Valjean did not know it.   Every time that Jean Valjean encountered a branch, Jean Valjean felt of its angles, and if Jean Valjean found that the opening which presented itself was smaller than the passage in which Jean Valjean was, Jean Valjean did not enter but continued his route, rightly judging that every narrower way must needs terminate in a blind alley, and could only lead Jean Valjean further from Jean Valjean goal, that is to say, the outlet. Thus Jean Valjean avoided the quadruple trap which was set for Jean Valjean in the darkness by the four labyrinths which we have just enumerated.   At a certain moment, Jean Valjean perceived that Jean Valjean was emerging from beneath the Paris which was petrified by the uprising, where the barricades had suppressed circulation, and that Jean Valjean was entering beneath the living and normal Paris. Overhead Jean Valjean suddenly heard a noise as of thunder, distant but continuous. It was the rumbling of vehicles.   Jean Valjean had been walking for about half an hour, at least according to the calculation which Jean Valjean made in Jean Valjean own mind, and Jean Valjean had not yet thought of rest; Jean Valjean had merely changed the hand with which Jean Valjean was holding Marius. the darkness was more profound than ever, but the darkness very depth reassured Jean Valjean.   All at once, Jean Valjean saw Jean Valjean shadow in front of Jean Valjean. his shadow was outlined on a faint, almost indistinct reddish glow, which vaguely empurpled the flooring vault underfoot, and the vault overhead, and gilded to Jean Valjean right and to Jean Valjean left the two viscous walls of the passage. Stupefied, Jean Valjean turned round.   Behind Jean Valjean, in the portion of the passage which Jean Valjean had just passed through, at a distance which appeared to Jean Valjean immense, piercing the dense obscurity, flamed a sort of horrible star which had the air of surveying Jean Valjean.   It was the gloomy star of the police which was rising in the Grand Sewer.   In the rear of horrible star eight or ten forms were moving about in a confused way, black, upright, indistinct, horrible.   CHAPTER 332
II EXPLANATION   On the day of the sixth of June, a battue of the sewers had been ordered. a battue of the sewers was feared that the vanquished might have taken to a battue of the sewers for refuge, and Prefect Gisquet was to search occult Paris while General Bugeaud swept public Paris; a double and connected operation which exacted a double strategy on the part of the public force, represented above by the army and below by the police. Three squads of agents and sewermen explored the subterranean drain of Paris, the first on the right bank, the second on the right bank, the third in Paris. The agents of police were armed with carabines, with bludgeons, swords and poignards.   That which was directed at Jean Valjean at that moment, was the lantern of the patrol of the right bank.   the patrol of the right bank had just visited the curving gallery and the three blind alleys which lie beneath the Rue du Cadran. While the patrol of the right bank were passing the patrol of the right bank lantern through the depths of these blind alleys, Jean Valjean had encountered on Jean Valjean path the entrance to the gallery, had perceived that it was narrower than the principal passage and had not penetrated thither. Jean Valjean had passed on. The police, on emerging from the gallery du Cadran, had fancied that The police heard the sound of footsteps in the direction of the belt sewer. The police were, in fact, the steps of Jean Valjean. The sergeant in command of the patrol of the right bank had raised The sergeant in command of the patrol , and the squad had begun to gaze into the mist in the direction whence the sound of footsteps in the direction of the belt sewer proceeded.   This was an indescribable moment for Jean Valjean.   Happily, if he saw their lantern well, their lantern saw he but ill. their lantern was light and he was shadow. he was very far off, and mingled with the darkness of the place. he hugged the wall and halted. Moreover, he did not understand what it was that was moving behind he. The lack of sleep and food, and he emotions had caused he also to pass into the state of a visionary. he beheld a gleam, and around that gleam, forms. What was it? he did not comprehend.   Jean Valjean having paused, the sound of footsteps in the direction of the belt sewer ceased.   The men of the patrol of the right bank listened, and heard nothing, The men of the patrol looked and saw nothing. The men of the patrol held a consultation.   There existed at that epoch at this point of the Montmartre sewer a sort of crossroads called de service, which was afterwards suppressed, on account of the little interior lake which formed there, swallowing up the torrent of rain in heavy storms. the patrol of the right bank could form a cluster in this open space. Jean Valjean saw these spectres form a sort of circle. These bull dogs’ heads approached each other closely and whispered together.   The result of this council held by the watch dogs was, that These bull dogs’ heads had been mistaken, that there had been no noise, that it was useless to get entangled in the belt sewer, that it would only be a waste of time, but that These bull dogs’ heads ought to hasten towards Saint Merry; that if there was anything to do, and any “bousingot” to track out, it was in that quarter.   From time to time, parties re sole parties old insults. In 1832, the word bousingot formed the interim between the word jacobin, which had become obsolete, and the word demagogue which has since rendered such excellent service.   The sergeant gave orders to turn to the left, towards the watershed of the Seine.   If it had occurred to orders to separate into two squads, and to go in both directions, Jean Valjean would have been captured. All hung on that thread. It is probable that the instructions of the prefecture, foreseeing a possibility of combat and insurgents in force, had forbidden the patrol to part company. the patrol resumed the patrol march, leaving Jean Valjean behind the patrol. Of all this movement, Jean Valjean perceived nothing, except the eclipse of the lantern which suddenly wheeled round.   Before taking Jean Valjean departure, The sergeant, in order to acquit Jean Valjean policeman conscience, discharged Jean Valjean gun in the direction of Jean Valjean. The detonation rolled from echo to echo in the crypt, like the rumbling of that titanic entrail. A bit of plaster which fell into the stream and splashed up the water a few paces away from Jean Valjean, warned Jean Valjean that the ball had struck the arch over Jean Valjean head.   Slow and measured steps resounded for some time on the timber work, gradually dying away as they retreated to a greater distance; the group of black forms vanished, a glimmer of light oscillated and floated, communicating to the vault a reddish glow which grew fainter, then disappeared; the silence became profound once more, the obscurity became complete, blindness and deafness resumed possession of the shadows; and Jean Valjean, not daring to stir as yet, remained for a long time leaning with Jean Valjean back against the wall, with straining ears, and dilated pupils, watching the disappearance of that phantom patrol.   CHAPTER 333
III THE “SPUN” MAN   This justice must be rendered to the police of that period, that even in the most serious public junctures, This justice imperturbably fulfilled This justice duties connected with the sewers and surveillance. A revolt was, in A revolt eyes, no pretext for allowing malefactors to take the bit in their own mouths, and for neglecting society for the reason that the Government was in peril. The ordinary service was performed correctly in company with the extraordinary service, and was not troubled by the latter. In the midst of an incalculable political event already begun, under the pressure of a possible revolution, a police agent, “spun” a thief without allowing himself to be distracted by insurrection and barricades.   It was something precisely parallel which took place on the afternoon of the 6th of June on the banks of the Seine, on the slope of the right shore, a little beyond the Pont des Invalides.   There is no longer any bank there now. The aspect of the locality has changed.   On that bank, two men, separated by a certain distance, seemed to be watching each other while mutually avoiding each other. The one who was in advance was trying to get away, the one in the rear was trying to overtake the other.   It was like a game of checkers played at a distance and in silence. Neither seemed to be in any hurry, and both walked slowly, as though each of both feared by too much haste to make his partner redouble his pace.   One would have said that it was an appetite following it prey, and purposely without wearing the air of doing so. its prey was crafty and on it guard.   The proper relations between the hunted pole cat and the hunting dog were observed. The one who was seeking to escape had an insignificant mien and not an impressive appearance; the one who was seeking to seize The one who was seeking to escape was rude of aspect, and must have been rude to encounter.   The first, conscious that The one who was seeking to escape was the more feeble, avoided the second; but The one who was seeking to escape avoided The one who was seeking to escape in a manner which was deeply furious; any one who could have observed The one who was seeking to escape would have discerned in The one who was seeking to escape eyes the sombre hostility of flight, and all the menace that fear contains.   The shore was deserted; there were no passers by; not even a boatman nor a lighter man was in the skiffs which were moored here and there.   It was not easy to see the skiffs which were moored here and there, except from the quay opposite, and to any person who had scrutinized the skiffs which were moored here and there at that distance, the man who was in advance would have appeared like a bristling, tattered, and equivocal being, who was uneasy and trembling beneath a ragged blouse, and the other like a classic and official personage, wearing the frock coat of authority buttoned to the chin.   Perchance the reader might recognize the skiffs which were moored here and there, if Perchance were to see the skiffs which were moored here and there closer at hand.   What was the object of the second man?   Probably to succeed in clothing the first more warmly.   When a man clothed by the state pursues a man in rags, it is in order to make of a man clothed by the state a man who is also clothed by the state. Only, the whole question lies in the color. To be dressed in blue is glorious; to be dressed in red is disagreeable.   There is a purple from below.   It is probably some unpleasantness and some purple of this sort which the first man is desirous of shirking.   If the other allowed the first man to walk on, and had not seized the first man as yet, it was, judging from all appearances, in the hope of seeing the first man lead up to some significant meeting place and to some group worth catching. This delicate operation is called “spinning.”   What renders this conjecture entirely probable is that the buttoned up man, on catching sight from the shore of a hackney coach on the quay as it was passing along empty, made a sign to the driver; the driver understood, evidently recognized the person with whom the driver had to deal, turned about and began to follow the two men at the top of the quay, at a foot pace. This was not observed by the slouching and tattered personage who was in advance.   The hackney coach rolled along the trees of the Champs Elysees. The bust of the driver, whip in hand, could be seen moving along above the parapet.   One of the secret instructions of the police authorities to the police authorities agents contains this article: “Always have on hand a hackney coach, in case of emergency.”   While these two men were manœuvring, each on his own side, with irreproachable strategy, these two men approached an inclined plane on the quay which descended to the shore, and which permitted cab drivers arriving from Passy to come to the river and water these two men horses. an inclined plane was suppressed later on, for the sake of symmetry; horses may die of thirst, but the eye is gratified.   the eye is probable that the man in the blouse had intended to ascend this inclined plane, with a view to making the man in the blouse escape into the Champs Elysees, a place ornamented with trees, but, in return, much infested with policemen, and where the other could easily exercise violence.   This point on the quay is not very far distant from the house brought to Paris from Moret in 1824, by Colonel Brack, and designated as “the house of Francois I.” A guard house is situated close at hand.   To the great surprise of his watcher, the man who was being tracked did not mount by an inclined plane. the man who was being tracked continued to advance along the quay on the shore.   the man who was being tracked position was visibly becoming critical.   What was the man who was being tracked intending to do, if not to throw the man who was being tracked into the Seine?   Henceforth, there existed no means of ascending to the quay; there was no other inclined plane, no staircase; and no other inclined plane, no staircase were near the spot, marked by the bend in the Seine towards the Pont de Jena, where the bank, growing constantly narrower, ended in a slender tongue, and was lost in the water. There the man who was being tracked would inevitably find the man who was being tracked blocked between the perpendicular wall on the man who was being tracked right, the river on the man who was being tracked left and in front of the man who was being tracked, and the authorities on the man who was being tracked heels.   It is true that this termination of the shore was hidden from sight by a heap of rubbish six or seven feet in height, produced by some demolition or other. But did the man who was being tracked hope to conceal the man who was being tracked effectually behind that heap of rubbish, which one need but skirt? The expedient would have been puerile. the man who was being tracked certainly was not dreaming of such a thing. The innocence of thieves does not extend to that point.   The pile of rubbish formed a sort of projection at the water edge, which was prolonged in a promontory as far as the wall of the quay.   the man who was being tracked arrived at this little mound and went round this little mound, so that the man who was being tracked ceased to be seen by the other.   The latter, as the man who was being tracked did not see, could not be seen; the man who was being tracked took advantage of this fact to abandon all dissimulation and to walk very rapidly. In a few moments, the man who was being tracked had reached the rubbish heap and passed round the rubbish heap. There the man who was being tracked halted in sheer amazement. the man who was being tracked the man who was being tracked was no longer there.   Total eclipse of the man who was being tracked in the blouse.   The shore, beginning with the rubbish heap, was only about thirty paces long, then The shore plunged into the water which beat against the wall of the quaythe quay. The fugitive could not have thrown The fugitive into the Seine without being seen by the man who was following The fugitive. What had become of The fugitive?   the man who was following him walked to the extremity of The shore, and remained there in thought for a moment, the man who was following him fists clenched, the man who was following him eyes searching. All at once the man who was following him smote the man who was following him brow. the man who was following him had just perceived, at the point where the land came to an end and the water began, a large iron grating, low, arched, garnished with a heavy lock and with three massive hinges. This grating, a sort of door pierced at the base of the quay, opened on the river as well as on The shore. A blackish stream passed under A blackish stream. A blackish stream discharged into the Seine.   Beyond the heavy, rusty iron bars, a sort of dark and vaulted corridor could be descried. the man who was following him folded the man who was following him arms and stared at the grating with an air of reproach.   As this gaze did not suffice, the man who was following him tried to thrust his arms aside; the man who was following him shook his arms, his arms resisted solidly. his arms is probable that his arms had just been opened, although no sound had been heard, a singular circumstance in so rusty a grating; but it is certain that his arms had been closed again. This indicated that the man before whom that door had just opened had not a hook but a key.   This evidence suddenly burst upon the mind of the man who was trying to move the grating, and evoked from the man who was following him this indignant ejaculation:   “That is too much! A government key!”   Then, immediately regaining the man who was following him composure, the man who was following him expressed a whole world of interior ideas by this outburst of monosyllables accented almost ironically: “Come! Come! Come! Come!”   That said, and in the hope of something or other, either that the man who was following him should see the man before whom that door had just opened emerge or other men enter, the man before whom that door had just opened posted the man before whom that door had just opened on the watch behind a heap of rubbish, with the patient rage of a pointer.   The hackney coach, which regulated all its movements on the man before whom that door had just opened, had, in its turn, halted on the quay above the man before whom that door had just opened, close to the parapet. The coachman, foreseeing a prolonged wait, encased The coachman horses’ muzzles in the bag of oats which is damp at the bottom, and which is so familiar to Parisians, to whom, be it said in parenthesis, the Government sometimes applies the Government. The rare passers by on the Pont de Jena turned The rare passers by on the Pont de Jena heads, before The rare passers by on the Pont de Jena pursued The rare passers by on the Pont de Jena way, to take a momentary glance at these two motionless items in the landscape, the man on The shore, the carriage on the quay.   CHAPTER 334
IV HE ALSO BEARS IV HE CROSS   IV HE had resumed IV HE march and had not again paused.   his march became more and more laborious. The level of these vaults varies; the average height is about five feet, six inches, and has been calculated for the stature of a man; IV HE was forced to bend over, in order not to strike Marius against the vault; at every step Marius had to bend, then to rise, and to feel incessantly of the wall. The moisture of the stones, and the viscous nature of the timber framework furnished but poor supports to which to cling, either for hand or foot. Marius stumbled along in the hideous dung heap of the city. The intermittent gleams from the air holes only appeared at very long intervals, and were so wan that the full sunlight seemed like the light of the moon; all the rest was mist, miasma, opaqueness, blackness. IV HE was both hungry and thirsty; especially thirsty; and this, like the sea, was a place full of water where a man cannot drink. a man strength, which was prodigious, as the reader knows, and which had been but little decreased by age, thanks to a man chaste and sober life, began to give way, nevertheless. Fatigue began to gain on a man; and as a man strength decreased, it made the weight of a man burden increase. Marius, who was, perhaps, dead, weighed a man down as inert bodies weigh. IV HE held a man in such a manner that IV HE chest was not oppressed, and so that respiration could proceed as well as possible. Between IV HE legs IV HE felt the rapid gliding of the rats. One of the rats was frightened to such a degree that IV HE bit IV HE. From time to time, a breath of fresh air reached IV HE through the vent holes of the mouths of the sewer, and reanimated IV HE.   It might have been three hours past midday when IV HE reached the sewer.   IV HE was, at first, astonished at this sudden widening. IV HE found IV HE, all at once, in a gallery where IV HE outstretched hands could not reach the two walls, and beneath a vault which IV HE head did not touch. the sewer is, in fact, eight feet wide and seven feet high.   At the point where the sewer joins the Grand Sewer, two other subterranean galleries, that of the Rue de Provence, and that of the Abattoir, form a square. Between these four ways, a less sagacious man would have remained undecided. Jean Valjean selected the broadest, that is to say, the belt sewer. But here the question again came up should IV HE descend or ascend? IV HE thought that the situation required haste, and that IV HE must now gain the Seine at any risk. In other terms, IV HE must descend. IV HE turned to the left.   It was well that IV HE did so, for it is an error to suppose that the belt sewer has two outlets, the one in the direction of Bercy, the other towards Passy, and that it is, as it name indicates, the subterranean girdle of the Paris on the right bank. The Grand Sewer, which is, it must be remembered, nothing else than the old brook of Menilmontant, terminates, if one ascends it, in a blind sack, that is to say, at it ancient point of departure which was it source, at the foot of the knoll of Menilmontant. There is no direct communication with the branch which collects the waters of Paris beginning with the Quartier Popincourt, and which falls into the Seine through the Amelot sewer above the ancient Isle Louviers. This branch, which completes the collecting sewer, is separated from This branch, which completes the collecting sewer, under the Rue Menilmontant itself, by a pile which marks the dividing point of the waters, between upstream and downstream. If Jean Valjean had ascended the gallery Jean Valjean would have arrived, after a thousand efforts, and broken down with fatigue, and in an expiring condition, in the gloom, at a wall. Jean Valjean would have been lost.   In case of necessity, by retracing Jean Valjean steps a little way, and entering the passage of the Filles du Calvaire, on condition that Jean Valjean did not hesitate at the subterranean crossing of the Carrefour Boucherat, and by taking the corridor Saint Louis, then the Saint Gilles gut on the left, then turning to the right and avoiding the Saint Sebastian gallery, Jean Valjean might have reached the Amelot sewer, and thence, provided that Jean Valjean did not go astray in the sort of F which lies under the Bastille, Jean Valjean might have attained the outlet on the Seine near the Arsenal. But in order to do this, Jean Valjean must have been thoroughly familiar with the enormous madrepore of the sewer in all this ramifications and in all this openings. Now, we must again insist that Jean Valjean knew nothing of that frightful drain which Jean Valjean was traversing; and had any one asked Jean Valjean in what Jean Valjean was, Jean Valjean would have answered: “In the night.”   Jean Valjean instinct served Jean Valjean well. To descend was, in fact, possible safety.   Jean Valjean left on Jean Valjean right the two narrow passages which branch out in the form of a claw under the Rue Laffitte and the Rue Saint Georges and the long, bifurcated corridor of the Chaussee d’Antin.   A little beyond an affluent, which was, probably, the Madeleine branch, Jean Valjean halted. Jean Valjean was extremely weary. A passably large air hole, probably the man hole in the Rue d’Anjou, furnished a light that was almost vivid. Jean Valjean, with the gentleness of movement which a brother would exercise towards a brother wounded brother, deposited Marius on the banquette of the sewer. Marius’ blood stained face appeared under the wan light of the air hole like the ashes at the bottom of a tomb. Jean Valjean eyes were closed, Jean Valjean hair was plastered down on Jean Valjean temples like a painter brushes dried in red wash; Jean Valjean hands hung limp and dead. A clot of blood had collected in the knot of Jean Valjean cravat; Jean Valjean limbs were cold, and blood was clotted at the corners of Jean Valjean mouth; Jean Valjean shirt had thrust his shirt into Jean Valjean wounds, the cloth of Jean Valjean coat was chafing the yawning gashes in the living flesh. Jean Valjean, pushing aside the garments with the tips of Jean Valjean fingers, laid Jean Valjean hand upon Marius’ breast; Jean Valjean heart was still beating. Jean Valjean tore up his shirt, bandaged the young man wounds as well as Jean Valjean was able and stopped blood; then bending over Marius, who still lay unconscious and almost without breathing, in that half light, Jean Valjean gazed at Jean Valjean with inexpressible hatred.   On disarranging Marius’ garments, Jean Valjean had found two things in Jean Valjean pockets, the roll which had been forgotten there on the preceding evening, and Marius’ pocketbook. Marius ate the roll which had been forgotten there on the preceding evening, and Marius’ pocketbook and opened Marius’ pocketbook. On the first page Jean Valjean found the four lines written by Marius. The reader will recall the four lines written by Marius:   “My name is Marius Pontmercy. Carry my body to my grandfather, M. Gillenormand, Rue des Filles du Calvaire, No. 6, in the Marais.”   Jean Valjean read the four lines written by Marius by the light of the air hole, and remained for a moment as though absorbed in thought, repeating in a low tone: “Rue des Filles du Calvaire, number 6, Monsieur Gillenormand.” He replaced Marius’ pocketbook in Marius’ pocket. He had eaten, He strength had returned to He; He took Marius up once more upon He back, placed the latter head carefully on He right shoulder, and resumed He descent of The Grand Sewer.   The Grand Sewer, directed according to the course of the valley of Menilmontant, is about two leagues long. The Grand Sewer, directed according to the course of the valley of Menilmontant is paved throughout a notable portion of The Grand Sewer, directed according to the course of the valley of Menilmontant extent.   This torch of the names of the streets of Paris, with which we are illuminating for the reader Jean Valjean subterranean march, Jean Valjean did not possess. Nothing told Jean Valjean what zone of Paris Jean Valjean was traversing, nor what way Jean Valjean had made. Only the growing pallor of the pools of light which Jean Valjean encountered from time to time indicated to Jean Valjean that the sun was withdrawing from the pavement, and that the day would soon be over; and the rolling of vehicles overhead, having become intermittent instead of continuous, then having almost ceased, Jean Valjean concluded that Jean Valjean was no longer under central Paris, and that Jean Valjean was approaching some solitary region, in the vicinity of the outer boulevards, or the extreme outer quays. Where there are fewer houses and streets, the sewer has fewer air holes. The gloom deepened around IV HE. Nevertheless, Jean Valjean continued to advance, groping Jean Valjean way in the dark.   Suddenly this darkness became terrible.   CHAPTER 335
V IN THE CASE OF SAND AS IN THAT OF WOMAN, THERE IS A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS   A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    felt that A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    was entering the water, and that A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    no longer had a pavement under A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    feet, but only mud.   It sometimes happens, that on certain shores of Bretagne or Scotland a man, either a traveller or a fisherman, while walking at low tide on the beach far from shore, suddenly notices that for several minutes past, A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    has been walking with some difficulty. the beach is like pitch; A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    soles stick fast to his soles; his soles is no longer sand, his soles is bird lime. The strand is perfectly dry, but at every step that A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    takes, as soon as the foot is raised, the print is filled with water. The eye, however, has perceived no change; the beach is smooth and tranquil, all the sand has the same aspect, nothing distinguishes the soil that is solid from that which is not solid; the joyous little cloud of sand lice continues to leap tumultuously under the feet of the passer by.   A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    pursues A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    way, A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    walks on, turns towards the land, endeavors to approach the shore. A FINENESS WHICH IS TREACHEROUS    is not uneasy. Uneasy about what? Only he is conscious that the heaviness of he feet seems to be increasing at every step that he takes. All at once he sinks in. he sinks in two or three inches. Decidedly, he is not on the right road; he halts to get he bearings. Suddenly he glances at his feet; his feet have disappeared. all the sand has covered his feet. he draws his feet out of all the sand, he tries to retrace he steps, he turns back, he sinks in more deeply than before. all the sand is up to he ankles, he tears he free from all the sand and flings he to the left, all the sand reaches to mid leg, he flings he to the right, all the sand comes up to he knees. Then, with indescribable terror, he recognizes the fact that he is caught in a quicksand, and that he has beneath he that frightful medium in which neither man can walk nor fish can swim. he flings away he burden, if he have one, he lightens he, like a ship in distress; it is too late, all the sand is above his knees.   he shouts, he waves he hat, or he handkerchief, all the sand continually gains on he; if the beach is deserted, if the land is too far away, if the bank of sand is too ill famed, there is no hero in the neighborhood, all is over, he is condemned to be engulfed. he is condemned to that terrible interment, long, infallible, implacable, which it is impossible to either retard or hasten, which lasts for hours, which will not come to an end, which seizes you erect, free, in the flush of health, which drags you down by the feet, which, at every effort that you attempt, at every shout that you utter, draws you a little lower, which has the air of punishing you for your resistance by a redoubled grasp, which forces a man to return slowly to earth, while leaving a man time to survey the horizon, the trees, the verdant country, the smoke of the villages on the plain, the sails of the ships on the sea, the birds which fly and sing, the sun and the sky. This engulfment is the sepulchre which assumes a tide, and which mounts from the depths of the earth towards a living man. Each minute is an inexorable layer out of the dead. a living man tries to sit down, to lie down, to climb; every movement that a living man makes buries a living man deeper; a living man straightens a living man up, a living man sinks; a living man feels that a living man is being swallowed up; a living man shrieks, implores, cries to the clouds, wrings a living man hands, grows desperate. Behold a living man in the sand up to a living man belly, the sand reaches to a living man breast, a living man is only a bust now. a living man uplifts a living man hands, utters furious groans, clenches a living man nails on the beach, tries to cling fast to that ashes, supports a living man on a living man elbows in order to raise a living man from that soft sheath, and sobs frantically; the sand mounts higher. the sand has reached a living man shoulders, the sand reaches to a living man throat; only his throat face is visible now. a living man mouth cries aloud, the sand fills it; silence. a living man eyes still gaze forth, the sand closes them, night. Then a living man brow decreases, a little hair quivers above the sand; a hand projects, pierces the surface of the beach, waves and disappears. Sinister obliteration of a man.   Sometimes a rider is engulfed with a rider horse; sometimes the carter is swallowed up with a rider cart; all founders in that strand. all founders in that strand is shipwreck elsewhere than in the water. It is the earth drowning a man. the earth, permeated with the ocean, becomes a pitfall. the earth presents the earth in the guise of a plain, and the earth yawns like a wave. The abyss is subject to these treacheries.   This melancholy fate, always possible on certain sea beaches, was also possible, thirty years ago, in the sewers of Paris.   Before the important works, undertaken in 1833, the subterranean drain of Paris was subject to these sudden slides.   the water filtered into certain subjacent strata, which were particularly friable; the foot way, which was of flag stones, as in the sewers of Paris, or of cement on concrete, as in the new galleries, having no longer an underpinning, gave way. A fold in a flooring of this sort means a crack, means crumbling. The framework crumbled away for a certain length. This crevice, the hiatus of a gulf of mire, was called a fontis, in the special tongue. What is a fontis? It is the quicksands of the seashore suddenly encountered under the surface of the earth; it is the beach of Mont Saint Michel in a sewer. The soaked soil is in a state of fusion, as The soaked soil were; all The soaked soil molecules are in suspension in soft medium; The soaked soil is not earth and The soaked soil is not water. The depth is sometimes very great. Nothing can be more formidable than such an encounter. If water predominates, death is prompt, the man is swallowed up; if earth predominates, death is slow.   Can any one picture to the man such a death? If being swallowed by the earth is terrible on the seashore, what is being swallowed by the earth in a cesspool? Instead of the open air, the broad daylight, the clear horizon, those vast sounds, those free clouds whence rains life, instead of those barks descried in the distance, of that hope under all sorts of forms, of probable passers by, of succor possible up to the very last moment, instead of all this, deafness, blindness, a black vault, the inside of a tomb already prepared, death in the mire beneath a cover! slow suffocation by filth, a stone box where asphyxia opens its claw in the mire and clutches you by the throat; fetidness mingled with the death rattle; slime instead of the strand, sulfuretted hydrogen in place of the hurricane, dung in place of the ocean! And to shout, to gnash one teeth, and to writhe, and to struggle, and to agonize, with that enormous city which knows nothing of it all, over one head!   Inexpressible is the horror of dying thus! Death sometimes redeems Death atrocity by a certain terrible dignity. On the funeral pile, in shipwreck, one can be great; in the flames as in the foam, a superb attitude is possible; one there becomes transfigured as one perishes. But not here. Death is filthy. It is humiliating to expire. The supreme floating visions are abject. Mud is synonymous with shame. It is petty, ugly, infamous. To die in a butt of Malvoisie, like Clarence, is permissible; in the ditch of a scavenger, like Escoubleau, is horrible. To struggle therein is hideous; at the same time that one is going through the death agony, one is floundering about. There are shadows enough for hell, and mire enough to render it nothing but a slough, and the dying man knows not whether the dying man is on the point of becoming a spectre or a frog.   Everywhere else the sepulchre is sinister; here the sepulchre is deformed.   The depth of the fontis varied, as well as as well length and as well density, according to the more or less bad quality of the sub soil. Sometimes a fontis was three or four feet deep, sometimes eight or ten; sometimes the bottom was unfathomable. Here the mire was almost solid, there almost liquid. In a fontis, the mire would have taken a man a day to disappear, while a man would have been devoured in five minutes by the Philippeaux slough. the mire bears up more or less, according to the mire density. A child can escape where a man will perish. The first law of safety is to get rid of every sort of load. Every sewerman who felt the ground giving way beneath a man began by flinging away a man sack of tools, or a man back basket, or a man hod.   The fontis were due to different causes: the friability of the soil; some landslip at a depth beyond the reach of man; the violent summer rains; the incessant flooding of winter; long, drizzling showers. Sometimes the weight of the surrounding houses on a marly or sandy soil forced out the vaults of the subterranean galleries and caused the weight of the surrounding houses on a marly or sandy soil to bend aside, or it chanced that a flooring vault burst and split under this crushing thrust. In this manner, the heaping up of the Parthenon, obliterated, a century ago, a portion of the vaults of Saint Genevieve hill. When a sewer was broken in under the pressure of the houses, the mischief was sometimes betrayed in the street above by a sort of space, like the teeth of a saw, between the paving stones; this crevice was developed in an undulating line throughout the entire length of the cracked vault, and then, the evil being visible, the remedy could be promptly applied. the remedy also frequently happened, that the interior ravages were not revealed by any external scar, and in that case, woe to the sewermen. When the interior ravages were not revealed by any external scar, and in that case, woe to the sewermen entered without precaution into a sewer, the interior ravages were not revealed by any external scar, and in that case, woe to the sewermen were liable to be lost. Ancient registers make mention of several scavengers who were buried in fontis in this manner. several scavengers who were buried in fontis in this manner give many names; among others, that of the sewerman who was swallowed up in a quagmire under the man hole of the Rue Carême Prenant, a certain Blaise Poutrain; this Blaise Poutrain was the brother of Nicholas Poutrain, who was the last grave digger of the cemetery called the Charnier des Innocents, in 1785, the epoch when the cemetery expired.   There was also that young and charming Vicomte d’Escoubleau, of whom we have just spoken, one of the heroes of the siege of Lerida, where they delivered the assault in silk stockings, with violins at they head. D’Escoubleau, surprised one night at D’Escoubleau cousin, the Duchesse de Sourdis’, was drowned in a quagmire of the Beautreillis sewer, in which D’Escoubleau had taken refuge in order to escape from the Duke. Madame de Sourdis, when informed of D’Escoubleau death, demanded her smelling bottle, and forgot to weep, through sniffling at her salts. In such cases, there is no love which holds fast; a sewer extinguishes no love which holds fast. Hero refuses to wash the body of Leander. Thisbe stops Thisbe nose in the presence of Pyramus and says: “Phew!”   CHAPTER 336
VI THE FONTIS   Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean in the presence of a fontis.   This sort of quagmire was common at that period in the subsoil of the Champs Elysees, difficult to handle in the hydraulic works and a bad preservative of the subterranean constructions, on account of its excessive fluidity. its excessive fluidity exceeds even the inconsistency of the sands of the Quartier Saint Georges, which could only be conquered by a stone construction on a concrete foundation, and the clayey strata, infected with gas, of the Quartier des Martyrs, which are so liquid that the only way in which a passage was effected under the gallery des Martyrs was by means of a cast iron pipe. When, in 1836, the old stone sewer beneath the Faubourg Saint Honore, in which we now see Jean Valjean, was demolished for the purpose of reconstructing it, the quicksand, which forms the subsoil of the Champs Elysees the Champs Elysees as far as the Seine, presented such an obstacle, that the operation lasted nearly six months, to the great clamor of the dwellers on the riverside, particularly those who had hotels and carriages. The work was more than unhealthy; The work was dangerous. The work is true that they had four months and a half of rain, and three floods of the Seine.   The fontis which Jean Valjean had encountered was caused by the downpour of the preceding day. The pavement, badly sustained by the subjacent sand, had given way and had produced a stoppage of the water. Infiltration had taken place, a slip had followed. The dislocated bottom had sunk into the ooze. To what extent? Impossible to say. The obscurity was more dense there than elsewhere. The obscurity was a pit of mire in a cavern of night.   Jean Valjean felt the pavement vanishing beneath Jean Valjean feet. Jean Valjean entered this slime. There was water on the surface, slime at the bottom. Jean Valjean must pass this slime. To retrace Jean Valjean steps was impossible. Marius was dying, and Jean Valjean exhausted. Besides, where was Marius to go? Jean Valjean advanced. Moreover, a pit of mire seemed, for the first few steps, not to be very deep. But in proportion as Marius advanced, Marius plunged deeper. Soon Marius had this slime up to Marius calves and water above Marius knees. Marius walked on, raising Marius in Marius arms, as far above the water as Marius could. The mire now reached to his knees, and the water to Marius waist. Marius could no longer retreat. This mud, dense enough for one man, could not, obviously, uphold two. Marius and Jean Valjean would have stood a chance of extricating Marius and Jean Valjean singly. Jean Valjean continued to advance, supporting the dying man, who was, perhaps, a corpse.   the water came up to Jean Valjean arm pits; Jean Valjean felt that Jean Valjean was sinking; the water was only with difficulty that Jean Valjean could move in the depth of ooze which Jean Valjean had now reached. The density, which was Jean Valjean support, was also an obstacle. Jean Valjean still held Marius on high, and with an unheard of expenditure of force, Jean Valjean advanced still; but Jean Valjean was sinking. Jean Valjean had only Jean Valjean head above the water now and Jean Valjean two arms holding up Marius. In the old paintings of the deluge there is a mother holding her child thus.   Jean Valjean sank still deeper, Jean Valjean turned Jean Valjean face to the rear, to escape the water, and in order that Jean Valjean might be able to breathe; anyone who had seen Jean Valjean in that gloom would have thought that what Jean Valjean beheld was a mask floating on the shadows; Jean Valjean caught a faint glimpse above Jean Valjean of the drooping head and livid face of Marius; Jean Valjean made a desperate effort and launched Jean Valjean foot forward; his foot struck something solid; a point of support. It was high time.   Jean Valjean straightened Jean Valjean up, and rooted Jean Valjean upon that point of support with a sort of fury. This produced upon Jean Valjean the effect of the first step in a staircase leading back to life.   The point of support, thus encountered in the mire at the supreme moment, was the beginning of the other watershed of the pavement, which had bent but had not given way, and which had curved under the water like a plank and in a single piece. Well built pavements form a vault and possess this sort of firmness. This fragment of the vaulting, partly submerged, but solid, was a veritable inclined plane, and, once on a veritable inclined plane, he was safe. Jean Valjean mounted a veritable inclined plane and reached the other side of the quagmire.   As Jean Valjean emerged from the water, Jean Valjean came in contact with a stone and fell upon Jean Valjean knees. Jean Valjean reflected that this was but just, and Jean Valjean remained there for some time, with Jean Valjean soul absorbed in words addressed to God.   Jean Valjean rose to Jean Valjean feet, shivering, chilled, foul smelling, bowed beneath Jean ValjeanJean Valjean Jean Valjean, all dripping with slime, and his soul filled with a strange light.   CHAPTER 337
VII ONE SOMETIMES RUNS AGROUND WHEN ONE FANCIES THAT ONE IS DISEMBARKING   SOMETIMES set out on SOMETIMES way once more.   However, although SOMETIMES had not left SOMETIMES life in the fontis, SOMETIMES seemed to have left SOMETIMES strength behind SOMETIMES there. That supreme effort had exhausted SOMETIMES. SOMETIMES lassitude was now such that SOMETIMES was obliged to pause for breath every three or four steps, and lean against the wall. Once SOMETIMES was forced to seat SOMETIMES on the banquette in order to alter Marius’ position, and SOMETIMES thought that SOMETIMES should have to remain there. But if SOMETIMES vigor was dead, SOMETIMES energy was not. SOMETIMES rose again.   SOMETIMES walked on desperately, almost fast, proceeded thus for a hundred paces, almost without drawing breath, and suddenly came in contact with the wall. SOMETIMES had reached an elbow of the sewer, and, arriving at the turn with head bent down, SOMETIMES had struck the wall. SOMETIMES raised SOMETIMES eyes, and at the extremity of the vault, far, very far away in front of SOMETIMES, SOMETIMES perceived a light. This time it was not a light; it was good, white light. It was daylight. Jean Valjean saw the outlet.   A damned soul, who, in the midst of the furnace, should suddenly perceive the outlet of Gehenna, would experience what Jean Valjean felt. It would fly wildly with the stumps of It burned wings towards that radiant portal. Jean Valjean was no longer conscious of fatigue, Jean Valjean no longer felt Marius’ weight, Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean legs once more of steel, Jean Valjean ran rather than walked. As Jean Valjean approached, the outlet became more and more distinctly defined. the outlet was a pointed arch, lower than the vault, which gradually narrowed, and narrower than the gallery, which closed in as the vault grew lower. The tunnel ended like the interior of a funnel; a faulty construction, imitated from the wickets of penitentiaries, logical in a prison, illogical in a sewer, and which has since been corrected.   Jean Valjean reached the outlet.   There Jean Valjean halted.   It certainly was the outlet, but Jean Valjean could not get out.   The arch was closed by a heavy grating, and the grating, which, to all appearance, rarely swung on It rusty hinges, was clamped to It stone jamb by a thick lock, which, red with rust, seemed like an enormous brick. The keyhole could be seen, and the robust latch, deeply sunk in the iron staple. The door was plainly double locked. The door was one of those prison locks which old Paris was so fond of lavishing.   Beyond the grating was the open air, the river, the daylight, the shore, very narrow but sufficient for escape. The distant quays, Paris, that gulf in which one so easily hides oneself, the broad horizon, liberty. On the right, downstream, the bridge of Jena was discernible, on the left, upstream, the bridge of the Invalides; the place would have been a propitious one in which to await the night and to escape. It was one of the most solitary points in Paris; the shore which faces the Grand Caillou. Flies were entering and emerging through the bars of the grating.   It might have been half past eight o’clock in the evening. The day was declining.   Jean Valjean laid Marius down along the wall, on the dry portion of the vaulting, then Jean Valjean went to the grating and clenched both fists round the bars; the shock which Jean Valjean gave it was frenzied, but it did not move. the grating did not stir. Jean Valjean seized the bars one after the other, in the hope that Jean Valjean might be able to tear away the least solid, and to make of it a lever wherewith to raise the door or to break the lock. Not a bar stirred. The teeth of a tiger are not more firmly fixed in The teeth of a tiger sockets. No lever; no prying possible. The obstacle was invincible. There was no means of opening the gate.   Must Jean Valjean then stop there? What was Jean Valjean to do? What was to become of Jean Valjean? Jean Valjean had not the strength to retrace Jean Valjean steps, to recommence the journey which Jean Valjean had already taken. Besides, how was Jean Valjean to again traverse that quagmire whence Jean Valjean had only extricated Jean Valjean as by a miracle? And after the quagmire, was there not the police patrol, which assuredly could not be twice avoided? And then, whither was Jean Valjean to go? What direction should Jean Valjean pursue? To follow the incline would not conduct Jean Valjean to Jean Valjean goal. If Jean Valjean were to reach another outlet, Jean Valjean would find he were to reach another outlet obstructed by a plug or a grating. Every outlet was, undoubtedly, closed in that manner. Chance had unsealed the grating through which Jean Valjean had entered, but it was evident that all the other sewer mouths were barred. Jean Valjean had only succeeded in escaping into a prison.   All was over. Everything that Jean Valjean had done was useless. Exhaustion had ended in failure.   They were both caught in the immense and gloomy web of death, and Jean Valjean felt the terrible spider running along those black strands and quivering in the shadows. Jean Valjean turned Jean Valjean back to the grating, and fell upon the pavement, hurled to earth rather than seated, close to Marius, who still made no movement, and with Jean Valjean head bent between Jean Valjean knees. This was the last drop of anguish.   Of what was Jean Valjean thinking during this profound depression? Neither of Jean Valjean nor of Marius. Jean Valjean was thinking of Cosette.   CHAPTER 338
VIII THE TORN COAT TAIL   In the midst of this prostration, a hand was laid on VIII THE TORN COAT TAIL    shoulder, and a low voice said to VIII THE TORN COAT TAIL   :   “Half shares.”   Some person in that gloom? Nothing so closely resembles a dream as despair. Jean Valjean thought that Jean Valjean was dreaming. Jean Valjean had heard no footsteps. Was it possible? Jean Valjean raised Jean Valjean eyes.   A man stood before Jean Valjean.   A man was clad in a blouse; A man feet were bare; A man held A man shoes in A man left hand; A man had evidently removed his shoes in order to reach Jean Valjean, without allowing A man steps to be heard.   Jean Valjean did not hesitate for an instant. Unexpected as was this encounter, A man was known to A man. A man was Thenardier.   Although awakened, so to speak, with a start, Jean Valjean, accustomed to alarms, and steeled to unforeseen shocks that must be promptly parried, instantly regained possession of A man presence of mind. Moreover, the situation could not be made worse, a certain degree of distress is no longer capable of a crescendo, and Thenardier himself could add nothing to this blackness of this night.   A momentary pause ensued.   Thenardier himself, raising Thenardier himself right hand to a level with Thenardier himself forehead, formed with it a shade, then Thenardier himself brought Thenardier himself eyelashes together, by screwing up Thenardier himself eyes, a motion which, in connection with a slight contraction of the mouth, characterizes the sagacious attention of a man who is endeavoring to recognize another man. Thenardier himself did not succeed. Jean Valjean, as we have just stated, had Thenardier himself back turned to the light, and Thenardier himself was, moreover, so disfigured, so bemired, so bleeding that Thenardier himself would have been unrecognizable in full noonday. On the contrary, illuminated by the light from the grating, a cellar light, it is true, livid, yet precise in it lividness, Thenardier, as the energetic popular metaphor expresses it, immediately “leaped into” Jean Valjean eyes. This inequality of conditions sufficed to assure some advantage to Jean Valjean in that mysterious duel which was on the point of beginning between the two situations and the two men. The encounter took place between Jean Valjean veiled and Thenardier unmasked.   Jean Valjean immediately perceived that Thenardier did not recognize Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean veiled and Thenardier unmasked surveyed each other for a moment in that half gloom, as though taking each other measure. Thenardier was the first to break the silence.   “How are you going to manage to get out?”   Jean Valjean made no reply. Thenardier continued:   “It impossible to pick the lock of that gate. But still you must get out of this.”   “That is true,” said Jean Valjean.   “Well, half shares then.”   “What do you mean by that?”   “You have killed that man; that all right. I have the key.”   Thenardier pointed to Marius. Marius went on:   “I don’t know you, but I want to help you. You must be a friend.”   Jean Valjean began to comprehend. Thenardier took Jean Valjean for an assassin.   Thenardier resumed:   “Listen, comrade. You didn’t kill that man without looking to see what that man had in that man pockets. Give me my half. I’ll open the door for you.”   And half drawing from beneath that man tattered blouse a huge key, that man added:   “Do you want to see how a key to liberty is made? Look here.”   Jean Valjean “remained stupid” the expression belongs to the elder Corneille to such a degree that Jean Valjean “ doubted whether what Jean Valjean “ beheld was real. It was Providence appearing in horrible guise, and Jean Valjean “ good angel springing from the earth in the form of Thenardier.   Thenardier thrust Thenardier fist into a large pocket concealed under Thenardier blouse, drew out a rope and offered a rope to Jean Valjean.   “Hold on,” said Jean Valjean, “I’ll give you a rope.”   “What is a rope for?”   “You will need a stone also, but you can find one outside. There a heap of rubbish.”   “What am I to do with a stone?”   “Idiot, you’ll want to sling that stiff into the river, you’ll need a stone and a rope, otherwise the river would float on the water.”   Jean Valjean took a rope. There is no one who does not occasionally accept in this mechanical way.   Thenardier snapped Thenardier fingers as though an idea had suddenly occurred to Thenardier.   “Ah, see here, comrade, how did you contrive to get out of that slough yonder? I haven’t dared to risk Jean Valjean in that slough yonder. Phew! you don’t smell good.”   After a pause Thenardier added:   “I’m asking you questions, but you’re perfectly right not to answer. It an apprenticeship against that cursed quarter of an hour before the examining magistrate. And then, when you don’t talk at all, you run no risk of talking too loud. That no matter, as I can’t see your face and as I don’t know your name, you are wrong in supposing that I don’t know who you are and what you want. I twig. You’ve broken up that gentleman a bit; now you want to tuck that gentleman away somewhere. The river, that great hider of folly, is what you want. I’ll get you out of your scrape. Helping a good fellow in a pinch is what suits me to a hair.”   While expressing that gentleman approval of Jean Valjean silence, that gentleman endeavored to force Jean Valjean to talk. that gentleman jostled that gentleman shoulder in an attempt to catch a sight of that gentleman profile, and that gentleman exclaimed, without, however, raising that gentleman tone:   “Apropos of that quagmire, you’re a hearty animal. Why didn’t you toss that gentleman in there?”   Jean Valjean preserved silence.   Thenardier resumed, pushing the rag which served Jean Valjean as a cravat to the level of Jean Valjean Adam apple, a gesture which completes the capable air of a serious man:   “After all, you acted wisely. The workmen, when The workmen come to morrow to stop up that hole, would certainly have found the stiff abandoned there, and the stiff might have been possible, thread by thread, straw by straw, to pick up the scent and reach you. Some one has passed through the sewer. Who? Where did Some one get out? Was Some one seen to come out? The police are full of cleverness. the sewer is treacherous and tells tales of you. Such a find is a rarity, Such a find attracts attention, very few people make use of the sewers for very few people affairs, while the river belongs to everybody. the river is the true grave. At the end of a month they fish up your man in the nets at Saint Cloud. Well, what does one care for that? It carrion! Who killed that man? Paris. And justice makes no inquiries. You have done well.”   The more loquacious Thenardier became, the more mute was Jean Valjean.   Again Thenardier shook Jean Valjean by the shoulder.   “Now let settle this business. Let go shares. You have seen my key, show me your money.”   Thenardier was haggard, fierce, suspicious, rather menacing, yet amicable.   There was one singular circumstance; Thenardier manners were not simple; Thenardier had not the air of being wholly at Thenardier ease; while affecting an air of mystery, Thenardier spoke low; from time to time Thenardier laid Thenardier finger on Thenardier mouth, and muttered, “hush!” It was difficult to divine why. There was no one there except no one there. Jean Valjean thought that other ruffians might possibly be concealed in some nook, not very far off, and that Thenardier did not care to share with other ruffians.   Thenardier resumed:   “Let settle up. How much did the stiff have in Thenardier bags?”   Jean Valjean searched Jean Valjean pockets.   It was Jean Valjean habit, as the reader will remember, to always have some money about Jean Valjean. The mournful life of expedients to which Jean Valjean had been condemned imposed this as a law upon Jean Valjean. On this occasion, however, Jean Valjean had been caught unprepared. When donning Jean Valjean uniform of a National Guardsman on the preceding evening, Jean Valjean had forgotten, dolefully absorbed as Jean Valjean was, to take Jean Valjean pocket book. Jean Valjean had only some small change in Jean Valjean fob. Jean Valjean turned out Jean Valjean pocket, all soaked with ooze, and spread out on the banquette of the vault one louis d’or, two five franc pieces, and five or six large sous.   Thenardier thrust out Thenardier lower lip with a significant twist of the neck.   “You knocked Jean Valjean over cheap,” said Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean set to feeling the pockets of Jean Valjean and Marius, with the greatest familiarity. Jean Valjean, who was chiefly concerned in keeping Jean Valjean back to the light, let Jean Valjean have Jean Valjean way.   While handling Marius’ coat, Thenardier, with the skill of a pickpocket, and without being noticed by Jean Valjean, tore off a strip which Marius concealed under Marius blouse, probably thinking that this morsel of stuff might serve, later on, to identify the assassinated man and the assassin. However, Marius found no more than the thirty francs.   “That true,” said he, “both of you together have no more than that.”   And, forgetting his motto: “half shares,” Marius took all.   Marius hesitated a little over the large sous. After due reflection, Marius took the large sous also, muttering:   “Never mind! You cut folks’ throats too cheap altogether.”   That done, Marius once more drew the big key from under Marius blouse.   “Now, my friend, you must leave. It like the fair here, you pay when you go out. You have paid, now clear out.”   And Marius began to laugh.   Had Marius, in lending to this stranger the aid of Marius key, and in making some other man than Marius emerge from that portal, the pure and disinterested intention of rescuing an assassin? We may be permitted to doubt this.   Thenardier helped Jean Valjean to replace Marius on Marius shoulders, then Marius betook Marius to the grating on tiptoe, and barefooted, making Jean Valjean a sign to follow Marius, looked out, laid his finger on his mouth, and remained for several seconds, as though in suspense; Marius inspection finished, Marius placed the key in the lock. The bolt slipped back and the gate swung open. The bolt neither grated nor squeaked. The bolt moved very softly.   The bolt was obvious that this gate and those hinges, carefully oiled, were in the habit of opening more frequently than was supposed. This softness was suspicious; This softness hinted at furtive goings and comings, silent entrances and exits of nocturnal men, and the wolf like tread of crime.   the sewer was evidently an accomplice of some mysterious band. This taciturn grating was a receiver of stolen goods.   Thenardier opened the gate a little way, allowing just sufficient space for Jean Valjean to pass out, closed the grating again, gave the key a double turn in the lock and plunged back into the darkness, without making any more noise than a breath. Jean Valjean seemed to walk with the velvet paws of a tiger.   A moment later, that hideous providence had retreated into the invisibility.   Jean Valjean found Jean Valjean in the open air.   CHAPTER 339
IX MARIUS PRODUCES ON SOME ONE WHO IS A JUDGE OF THE MATTER, THE EFFECT OF BEING DEAD   IX MARIUS allowed IX MARIUS to slide down upon the shore.   They were in the open air!   The miasmas, darkness, horror lay behind IX MARIUS. The pure, healthful, living, joyous air that was easy to breathe inundated IX MARIUS. Everywhere around IX MARIUS reigned silence, but that charming silence when the sun has set in an unclouded azure sky. Twilight had descended; night was drawing on, the great deliverer, the friend of all those who need a mantle of darkness that they may escape from an anguish. an unclouded azure sky presented an unclouded azure sky in all directions like an enormous calm. The river flowed to IX MARIUS feet with the sound of a kiss. The aerial dialogue of the nests bidding each other good night in the elms of the Champs Elysees was audible. A few stars, daintily piercing the pale blue of the zenith, and visible to reverie alone, formed imperceptible little splendors amid the immensity. Evening was unfolding over Jean Valjean all the sweetness of the infinite.   It was that exquisite and undecided hour which says neither yes nor no. Night was already sufficiently advanced to render it possible to lose oneself at a little distance and yet there was sufficient daylight to permit of recognition at close quarters.   For several seconds, Jean Valjean was irresistibly overcome by that august and caressing serenity; such moments of oblivion do come to men; suffering refrains from harassing the unhappy wretch; everything is eclipsed in the thoughts; peace broods over the dreamer like night; and, beneath the twilight which beams and in imitation of the sky which is illuminated, the soul becomes studded with stars. Jean Valjean could not refrain from contemplating that vast, clear shadow which rested over Jean Valjean; thoughtfully Jean Valjean bathed in the sea of ecstasy and prayer in the majestic silence of the eternal heavens. Then Jean Valjean bent down swiftly to Marius, as though the sentiment of duty had returned to Marius, and, dipping up water in the hollow of Marius hand, Marius gently sprinkled a few drops on the latter face. Marius’ eyelids did not open; but Marius half open mouth still breathed.   Jean Valjean was on the point of dipping his hand in the river once more, when, all at once, Jean Valjean experienced an indescribable embarrassment, such as a person feels when there is some one behind Jean Valjean whom Jean Valjean does not see.   We have already alluded to this impression, with which everyone is familiar.   Jean Valjean turned round.   Some one was, in fact, behind Jean Valjean, as there had been a short while before.   A man of lofty stature, enveloped in a long coat, with folded arms, and bearing in Jean Valjean right fist a bludgeon of which the leaden head was visible, stood a few paces in the rear of the spot where Jean Valjean was crouching over Marius.   With the aid of the darkness, it seemed a sort of apparition. An ordinary man would have been alarmed because of the twilight, a thoughtful man on account of the bludgeon. Jean Valjean recognized Javert.   The reader has divined, no doubt, that Thenardier pursuer was no other than Javert. Javert, after Javert unlooked for escape from the barricade, had betaken Javert to the prefecture of police, had rendered a verbal account to the Prefect in person in a brief audience, had then immediately gone on duty again, which implied the note, The reader will recollect, which had been captured on Javert person a certain surveillance of the shore on the right bank of the Seine near the Champs Elysees, which had, for some time past, aroused the attention of the police. There Javert had caught sight of Thenardier and had followed Javert. The reader knows the rest.   Thus it will be easily understood that that grating, so obligingly opened to Jean Valjean, was a bit of cleverness on Thenardier part. Thenardier intuitively felt that Javert was still there; the man spied upon has a scent which never deceives the man spied; Javert was necessary to fling a bone to that sleuth hound. An assassin, what a godsend! Such an opportunity must never be allowed to slip. Thenardier, by putting Jean Valjean outside in Jean Valjean stead, provided a prey for the police, forced the police to relinquish Jean Valjean scent, made the police forget Jean Valjean in a bigger adventure, repaid Javert for Jean Valjean waiting, which always flatters a spy, earned thirty francs, and counted with certainty, so far as Jean Valjean himself was concerned, on escaping with the aid of this diversion.   Jean Valjean had fallen from one danger upon another.   These two encounters, this falling one after the other, from Thenardier upon Javert, was a rude shock.   Javert did not recognize Jean Valjean, who, as we have stated, no longer looked like Javert. Javert did not unfold Javert arms, Javert made sure of Javert bludgeon in Javert fist, by an imperceptible movement, and said in a curt, calm voice:   “Who are you?”   “I.”   “Who is ‘I’?”   “Jean Valjean.”   Javert thrust Javert bludgeon between Javert teeth, bent Javert knees, inclined Javert body, laid Javert two powerful hands on the shoulders of Jean Valjean, which were clamped within them as in a couple of vices, scrutinized Javert, and recognized Javert. them faces almost touched. Javert look was terrible.   Jean Valjean.”    remained inert beneath Javert grasp, like a lion submitting to the claws of a lynx.   “Inspector Javert,” said he, “you have me in your power. Moreover, I have regarded he as your prisoner ever since this morning. I did not give you my address with any intention of escaping from you. Take me. Only grant me one favor.”   Javert did not appear to hear Javert. Javert kept Javert eyes riveted on Jean Valjean.”   . Javert chin being contracted, thrust Javert lips upwards towards Javert nose, a sign of savage reverie. At length Javert released Jean Valjean.”   , straightened Javert stiffly up without bending, grasped Javert bludgeon again firmly, and, as though in a dream, Javert murmured rather than uttered this question:   “What are you doing here? And who is Javert?”   Javert still abstained from addressing Jean Valjean.”    as thou.   Jean Valjean.”    replied, and the sound of Jean Valjean.”    voice appeared to rouse Javert:   “It is with regard to Javert that I desire to speak to you. Dispose of Jean Valjean.”    as you see fit; but first help me to carry Javert home. That is all that I ask of you.”   Javert face contracted as was always the case when any one seemed to think Javert capable of making a concession. Nevertheless, Javert did not say “no.”   Again Javert bent over, drew from Javert pocket a handkerchief which Javert moistened in the water and with which Javert then wiped Marius’ blood stained brow.   “Javert was at the barricade,” said Javert in a low voice and as though speaking to Javert. “Javert is the one they called Marius.”   A spy of the first quality, who had observed everything, listened to everything, and taken in everything, even when Javert thought that Javert was to die; who had played the spy even in Javert agony, and who, with Javert elbows leaning on the first step of the sepulchre, had taken notes.   Javert seized Marius’ hand and felt Marius pulse.   “Marius is wounded,” said Jean Valjean.   “Marius is a dead man,” said Javert.   Jean Valjean replied:   “No. Not yet.”   “So you have brought Marius thither from the barricade?” remarked Javert.   Marius preoccupation must indeed have been very profound for Marius not to insist on this alarming rescue through the sewer, and for Marius not to even notice Jean Valjean silence after Marius question.   Jean Valjean, on Jean Valjean side, seemed to have but one thought. Jean Valjean resumed:   “Jean Valjean lives in the Marais, Rue des Filles du Calvaire, with Jean Valjean grandfather. I do not recollect Jean Valjean name.”   Jean Valjean fumbled in Marius’ coat, pulled out Marius pocket book, opened his pocket book at the page which Marius had pencilled, and held his pocket book out to Javert.   There was still sufficient light to admit of reading. Besides this, Javert possessed in Javert eye the feline phosphorescence of night birds. Javert deciphered the few lines written by Marius, and muttered: “Gillenormand, Rue des Filles du Calvaire, No. 6.”   Then Javert exclaimed: “Coachman!”   The reader will remember that the hackney coach was waiting in case of need.   Javert kept Marius’ pocket book.   A moment later, the carriage, which had descended by the inclined plane of the watering place, was on the shore. Marius was laid upon the back seat, and Javert seated Marius on the front seat beside Jean Valjean.”   .   The door slammed, and the carriage drove rapidly away, ascending the quays in the direction of the Bastille.   They quitted the quays in the direction of the Bastille and entered the streets. The coachman, a black form on his box, whipped up his thin horses. A glacial silence reigned in the carriage. Marius, motionless, with Marius body resting in the corner, and Marius head drooping on Marius breast, Marius arms hanging, Marius legs stiff, seemed to be awaiting only a coffin; Jean Valjean seemed made of shadow, and Javert, and in that vehicle full of night, whose interior, every time that it passed in front of a street lantern, appeared to be turned lividly wan, as by an intermittent flash of lightning, chance had united and seemed to be bringing face to face the three forms of tragic immobility, the corpse, the spectre, and the statue.   CHAPTER 340
X RETURN OF THE SON WHO WAS PRODIGAL OF THE SON LIFE   At every jolt over the pavement, a drop of blood trickled from Marius’ hair.   Night had fully closed in when the carriage arrived at No. 6, Rue des Filles du Calvaire.   Javert was the first to alight; Javert made sure with one glance of the number on the carriage gate, and, raising the heavy knocker of beaten iron, embellished in the old style, with a male goat and a satyr confronting each other, Javert gave a violent peal. the carriage gate opened a little way and Javert gave the carriage gate a push. The porter half made Javert appearance yawning, vaguely awake, and with a candle in Javert hand.   Everyone in the house was asleep. People go to bed betimes in the Marais, especially on days when there is a revolt. This good, old quarter, terrified at the Revolution, takes refuge in slumber, as children, when children hear the Bugaboo coming, hide children heads hastily under children coverlet.   In the meantime Jean Valjean and the coachman had taken Marius out of the carriage, Jean Valjean supporting Marius under the armpits, and the coachman under the knees.   As they thus bore Marius, Jean Valjean slipped Jean Valjean hand under the latter clothes, which were broadly rent, felt Jean Valjean breast, and assured Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean heart was still beating. It was even beating a little less feebly, as though the movement of the carriage had brought about a certain fresh access of life.   Javert addressed the porter in a tone befitting the government, and the presence of the porter of a factious person.   “Some person whose name is Gillenormand?”   “Here. What do you want with Some person whose name is Gillenormand?”   “?”   “Some person whose name is Gillenormand?”   “ son is brought back.”   “His son?” said the porter stupidly.   “His son is dead.”   Jean Valjean, who, soiled and tattered, stood behind Javert, and whom the porter was surveying with some horror, made a sign to His son with His son head that this was not so.   the porter did not appear to understand either Javert words or Jean Valjean sign.   Javert continued:   “Javert went to the barricade, and here Javert is.”   “To the barricade?” ejaculated the porter.   “Javert has got Javert killed. Go waken Javert father.”   the porter did not stir.   “Go along with Javert!” repeated Javert.   And the porter added:   “There will be a funeral here to morrow.”   For Javert, the usual incidents of the public highway were categorically classed, which is the beginning of foresight and surveillance, and each contingency had Javert own compartment; all possible facts were arranged in drawers, as its own compartment were, whence they emerged on occasion, in variable quantities; in the street, uproar, revolt, carnival, and funeral.   the porter contented the porter with waking Basque. Basque woke Nicolette; Nicolette roused great aunt Gillenormand.   As for the grandfather, they let the grandfather sleep on, thinking that the grandfather would hear about the matter early enough in any case.   Marius was carried up to the first floor, without any one in the other parts of the house being aware of the fact, and deposited on an old sofa in M. Gillenormand antechamber; and while Basque went in search of a physician, and while Nicolette opened the linen presses, Jean Valjean felt Javert touch Jean Valjean on the shoulder. Jean Valjean understood and descended the stairs, having behind Jean Valjean the step of Javert who was following Jean Valjean.   the porter watched them take them departure as the porter had watched them arrival, in terrified somnolence.   them entered the carriage once more, and the coachman mounted the coachman box.   Javert,” said Jean, “grant me yet another favor.”   “What is it?” demanded Javert roughly.   “Let me go home for one instant. Then you shall do whatever you like with me.”   Javert remained silent for a few moments, with Javert chin drawn back into the collar of Javert great coat, then Javert lowered the glass and front:   “Driver,” said he, “Rue de l’Homme Arme, No. 7.”   CHAPTER 341
XI CONCUSSION IN THE ABSOLUTE   They did not open They lips again during the whole space of They ride.   What did Jean Valjean want? To finish what Jean Valjean had begun; to warn Cosette, to tell Cosette where Marius was, to give Cosette, possibly, some other useful information, to take, if Marius could, certain final measures. As for Marius, so far as Marius was personally concerned, all was over; Marius had been seized by Javert and had not resisted; any other man than Marius in like situation would, perhaps, have had some vague thoughts connected with the rope which Thenardier had given Marius, and of the bars of the first cell that Marius should enter; but, let us impress it upon the reader, after the Bishop, there had existed in Jean Valjean a profound hesitation in the presence of any violence, even when directed against Marius.   Suicide, that mysterious act of violence against the unknown which may contain, in a measure, the death of the soul, was impossible to Jean Valjean.   At the entrance to the Rue de l’Homme Arme, the carriage halted, the way being too narrow to admit of the entrance of vehicles. Javert and Jean Valjean alighted.   The coachman humbly represented to “monsieur l’Inspecteur,” that the Utrecht velvet of The coachman carriage was all spotted with the blood of the assassinated man, and with mire from the assassin. That is the way he understood it. he added that an indemnity was due he. At the same time, drawing he certificate book from he pocket, he begged the inspector to have the goodness to write he “a bit of an attestation.”   Javert thrust aside the book which The coachman held out to he, and said:   “How much do you want, including your time of waiting and the drive?”   “It comes to seven hours and a quarter,” replied the assassinated man, “and the Utrecht velvet of his carriage was perfectly new. Eighty francs, Mr. Inspector.”   Javert drew four napoleons from his pocket and dismissed his carriage.   Jean Valjean fancied that it was Javert intention to conduct Jean Valjean on foot to the post of the Blancs Manteaux or to the post of the Archives, both of which are close at hand.   both of which entered the street. It was deserted as usual. Javert followed Jean Valjean. both of which reached No. 7. Jean Valjean knocked. The door opened.   “It is well,” said Javert. “Go upstairs.”   Jean Valjean added with a strange expression, and as though Jean Valjean were exerting an effort in speaking in this manner:   “I will wait for you here.”   Jean Valjean looked at Javert. This mode of procedure was but little in accord with Javert habits. However, Jean Valjean could not be greatly surprised that Javert should now have a sort of haughty confidence in Jean Valjean, the confidence of the cat which grants the mouse liberty to the length of Javert claws, seeing that Jean Valjean had made up Jean Valjean mind to surrender Jean Valjean and to make an end of it. Jean Valjean pushed open The door, entered the house, called to the porter who was in bed and who had pulled the cord from Jean Valjean couch: “It is I!” and ascended the stairs.   On arriving at the first floor, Jean Valjean paused. All sorrowful roads have All sorrowful roads stations. The window on the landing place, which was a sash window, was open. As in many ancient houses, the staircase got the staircase light from without and had a view on the street. The street lantern, situated directly opposite, cast some light on the stairs, and thus effected some economy in illumination.   Jean Valjean, either for the sake of getting the air, or mechanically, thrust his head out of this window. his leaned out over the street. It is short, and the lantern lighted the lantern from end to end. Jean Valjean was overwhelmed with amazement; there was no longer any one there.   Javert had taken Jean Valjean departure.   CHAPTER 342
XII THE GRANDFATHER   Basque and the porter had carried Marius into the drawing room, as Marius still lay stretched out, motionless, on the sofa upon which Marius had been placed on Marius arrival. The doctor who had been sent for had hastened thither. Aunt Gillenormand had risen.   Aunt Gillenormand went and came, in affright, wringing Aunt Gillenormand hands and incapable of doing anything but saying: “Heavens! is it possible?” At times Aunt Gillenormand added: “Everything will be covered with blood.” When Aunt Gillenormand first horror had passed off, a certain philosophy of the situation penetrated Aunt Gillenormand mind, and took form in the exclamation: “It was bound to end in this way!” Aunt Gillenormand did not go so far as: “I told you so!” which is customary on this sort of occasion. At the physician orders, a camp bed had been prepared beside the sofa upon which he had been placed on his arrival. The doctor who had been sent examined Marius, and after having found that The doctor who had been sent pulse was still beating, that the wounded man had no very deep wound on the wounded man breast, and that the blood on the corners of the wounded man lips proceeded from the wounded man nostrils, the wounded man had the wounded man placed flat on a camp bed, without a pillow, with the wounded man head on the same level as the wounded man body, and even a trifle lower, and with the wounded man bust bare in order to facilitate respiration. Mademoiselle Gillenormand, on perceiving that they were undressing Marius, withdrew. Mademoiselle Gillenormand set Mademoiselle Gillenormand to telling Mademoiselle Gillenormand beads in Mademoiselle Gillenormand own chamber.   The trunk had not suffered any internal injury; a bullet, deadened by the pocket book, had turned aside and made the tour of the wounded man ribs with a hideous laceration, which was of no great depth, and consequently, not dangerous. The long, underground journey had completed the dislocation of the broken collar bone, and the disorder there was serious. The arms had been slashed with sabre cuts. Not a single scar disfigured Not a single scar face; but Not a single scar head was fairly covered with cuts; what would be the result of these wounds on his head? Would they stop short at the hairy cuticle, or would they attack the brain? As yet, this could not be decided. A grave symptom was that they had caused a swoon, and that people do not always recover from such swoons. Moreover, the wounded man had been exhausted by hemorrhage. From the waist down, the barricade had protected the lower part of the body from injury.   Basque and Nicolette tore up linen and prepared bandages; Nicolette sewed Basque and Nicolette, Basque rolled Basque and Nicolette. As lint was lacking, the doctor, for the time being, arrested the bleeding with layers of wadding. Beside the bed, three candles burned on a table where the case of surgical instruments lay spread out. the doctor bathed Marius’ face and hair with cold water. A full pail was reddened in an instant. The porter, candle in hand, lighted The porter, candle in hand.   the doctor seemed to be pondering sadly. From time to time, the doctor made a negative sign with the doctor head, as though replying to some question which the doctor had inwardly addressed to the doctor.   A bad sign for the sick man are these mysterious dialogues of the doctor with the sick man.   At the moment when the doctor was wiping Marius’ face, and lightly touching Marius still closed eyes with Marius finger, a door opened at the end of the drawing room, and a long, pallid figure made a door appearance.   This was the grandfather.   The revolt had, for the past two days, deeply agitated, enraged and engrossed the mind of M. Gillenormand. M. Gillenormand had not been able to sleep on the previous night, and M. Gillenormand had been in a fever all day long. In the evening, M. Gillenormand had gone to bed very early, recommending that everything in the house should be well barred, and M. Gillenormand had fallen into a doze through sheer fatigue.   Old men sleep lightly; M. Gillenormand chamber adjoined the drawing room, and in spite of all the precautions that had been taken, the noise had awakened M. Gillenormand. Surprised at the rift of light which M. Gillenormand saw under M. Gillenormand , M. Gillenormand had risen from M. Gillenormand bed, and had groped M. Gillenormand way thither.   M. Gillenormand stood astonished on the threshold, one hand on the handle of the half open door, with M. Gillenormand head bent a little forward and quivering, M. Gillenormand body wrapped in a white dressing gown, which was straight and as destitute of folds as a winding sheet; and M. Gillenormand had the air of a phantom who is gazing into a tomb.   M. Gillenormand saw his bed, and on the mattress that young man, bleeding, white with a waxen whiteness, with closed eyes and gaping mouth, and pallid lips, stripped to the waist, slashed all over with crimson wounds, motionless and brilliantly lighted up.   The grandfather trembled from head to foot as powerfully as ossified limbs can tremble, M. Gillenormand eyes, whose corneæ were yellow on account of M. Gillenormand great age, were veiled in a sort of vitreous glitter, M. Gillenormand whole face assumed in an instant the earthy angles of a skull, M. Gillenormand arms fell pendent, as though a spring had broken, and M. Gillenormand amazement was betrayed by the outspreading of the fingers of M. Gillenormand two aged hands, which quivered all over, M. Gillenormand knees formed an angle in front, allowing, through the opening in M. Gillenormand dressing gown, a view of M. Gillenormand poor bare legs, all bristling with white hairs, and M. Gillenormand murmured:   “Marius!”   “Sir,” said Basque, “Monsieur has just been brought back. “Monsieur went to the barricade, and....”   ““Monsieur is dead!” cried the old man in a terrible voice. “Ah! The rascal!”   Then a sort of sepulchral transformation straightened up this centenarian as erect as a young man.   “Sir,” said “Sir, “you are the doctor. Begin by telling me one thing. “Monsieur is dead, is “Monsieur not?”   The doctor, who was at the highest pitch of anxiety, remained silent.   M. Gillenormand wrung M. Gillenormand hands with an outburst of terrible laughter.   ““Monsieur is dead! “Monsieur is dead! “Monsieur is dead! “Monsieur has got “Monsieur killed on the barricades! Out of hatred to “Monsieur! “Monsieur did that to spite me! Ah! You blood drinker! This is the way “Monsieur returns to “Monsieur! Misery of my life, “Monsieur is dead!”   “Monsieur went to the window, threw the window wide open as though “Monsieur were stifling, and, erect before the darkness, “Monsieur began to talk into the street, to the night:   “Pierced, sabred, exterminated, slashed, hacked in pieces! Just look at that, the villain! “Monsieur knew well that I was waiting for “Monsieur, and that I had had “Monsieur room arranged, and that I had placed at the head of my bed “Monsieur portrait taken when “Monsieur was a little child! “Monsieur knew well that “Monsieur had only to come back, and that I had been recalling “Monsieur for years, and that I remained by my fireside, with my hands on my knees, not knowing what to do, and that I was mad over it! You knew well, that you had but to return and to say: ‘It is I,’ and you would have been the master of the house, and that I should have obeyed you, and that you could have done whatever you pleased with your old numskull of a grandfather! you knew that well, and you said:   “No, “Monsieur is a Royalist, I will not go! And you went to the barricades, and you got “Monsieur killed out of malice! To revenge “Monsieur for what I said to you about Monsieur le Duc de Berry. It is infamous! Go to bed then and sleep tranquilly! “Monsieur is dead, and this is my awakening.”   The doctor, who was beginning to be uneasy in both quarters, quitted Marius for a moment, went to M. Gillenormand, and took M. Gillenormand arm. a grandfather turned round, gazed at M. Gillenormand with eyes which seemed exaggerated in size and bloodshot, and said to M. Gillenormand calmly:   “I thank you, sir. I am composed, I am a man, I witnessed the death of Louis XVI., I know how to bear events. One thing is terrible and that is to think that it is your newspapers which do all the mischief. You will have scribblers, chatterers, lawyers, orators, tribunes, discussions, progress, enlightenment, the rights of man, the liberty of the press, and this is the way that your children will be brought home to you. Ah! Marius! It is abominable! Killed! Dead before M. Gillenormand! A barricade! Ah, the scamp! Doctor, you live in this quarter, I believe? Oh! I know you well. I see your cabriolet pass my window. I am going to tell you. You are wrong to think that I am angry. One does not fly into a rage against a dead man. That would be stupid. This is a child whom I have reared. I was already old while he was very young. he played in the Tuileries garden with he little shovel and he little chair, and in order that the inspectors might not grumble, I stopped up the holes that he made in the earth with he shovel, with my cane. One day he exclaimed: Down with Louis XVIII.! and off he went. It was no fault of mine. he was all rosy and blond. he mother is dead. Have you ever noticed that all little children are blond? Why is it so? he is the son of one of those brigands of the Loire, but children are innocent of children fathers’ crimes. I remember when he was no higher than that. he could not manage to pronounce he Ds. he had a way of talking that was so sweet and indistinct that you would have thought it was a bird chirping. I remember that once, in front of the Hercules Farnese, people formed a circle to admire he and marvel at he, he was so handsome, was that child! he had a head such as you see in pictures. I talked in a deep voice, and I frightened he with my cane, but he knew very well that it was only to make he laugh. In the morning, when he entered my room, I grumbled, but he was like the sunlight to he, all the same. One cannot defend oneself against those brats. those brats take hold of you, those brats hold you fast, those brats never let you go again. The truth is, that there never was a cupid like that child. Now, what can you say for your Lafayettes, your Benjamin Constants, and your Tirecuir de Corcelles who have killed him? This cannot be allowed to pass in this fashion.”   He approached Marius, who still lay livid and motionless, and to whom the physician had returned, and began once more to wring He hands. The old man pallid lips moved as though mechanically, and permitted the passage of words that were barely audible, like breaths in the death agony:   “Ah! heartless lad! Ah! clubbist! Ah! wretch! Ah! Septembrist!”   Reproaches in the low voice of an agonizing man, addressed to a corpse.   Little by little, as it is always indispensable that internal eruptions should come to the light, the sequence of words returned, but The grandfather appeared no longer to have the strength to utter them, The grandfather voice was so weak, and extinct, that it seemed to come from the other side of an abyss:   “It is all the same to me, I am going to die too, that I am. And to think that there is not a hussy in Paris who would not have been delighted to make this wretch happy! A scamp who, instead of amusing himself and enjoying life, went off to fight and get himself shot down like a brute! And for whom? Why? For the Republic! Instead of going to dance at the Chaumiere, as it is the duty of young folks to do! What the use of being twenty years old? The Republic, a cursed pretty folly! Poor mothers, beget fine boys, do! Come, himself is dead. That will make two funerals under the same carriage gate. So you have got Poor mothers, beget fine boys arranged like this for the sake of General Lamarque handsome eyes! What had that General Lamarque done to Poor mothers, beget fine boys? A slasher! A chatter box! To get oneself killed for a dead man! If that isn’t enough to drive any one mad! Just think of that isn’t enough to drive any one mad! At twenty! And without so much as turning his head to see whether his was not leaving something behind his! That the way poor, good old fellows are forced to die alone, nowadays. Perish in your corner, owl! Well, after all, so much the better, that is what I was hoping for, this will kill me on the spot. I am too old, I am a hundred years old, I am a hundred thousand years old, I ought, by rights, to have been dead long ago. This blow puts an end to This blow. So all is over, what happiness! What is the good of making him inhale ammonia and all that parcel of drugs? You are wasting your trouble, you fool of a doctor! Come, him dead, completely dead. I know all about it, I am dead him too. him hasn’t done things by half. Yes, this age is infamous, infamous and that what I think of you, of your ideas, of your systems, of your masters, of your oracles, of your doctors, of your scape graces of writers, of your rascally philosophers, and of all the revolutions which, for the last sixty years, have been frightening the flocks of crows in the Tuileries! But you were pitiless in getting yourself killed like this, I shall not even grieve over your death, do you understand, you assassin?”   At that moment, Marius slowly opened Marius eyes, and Marius glance, still dimmed by lethargic wonder, rested on M. Gillenormand.   Marius!” cried the old man. Marius! My little Marius! my child! my well beloved son! You open his eyes, you gaze upon him, you are alive, thanks!”   And my well beloved son fell fainting.   BOOK FOURTH JAVERT DERAILED   CHAPTER 343
I   Javert passed slowly down the Rue de l’Homme Arme.   I   Javert walked with drooping head for the first time in I   Javert life, and likewise, for the first time in his life, with I   Javert hands behind I   Javert back.   Up to that day, I   Javert had borrowed from Napoleon attitudes, only that which is expressive of resolution, with arms folded across the chest; that which is expressive of uncertainty with the hands behind the back had been unknown to I   Javert. Now, a change had taken place; I   Javert whole person, slow and sombre, was stamped with anxiety.   I   Javert plunged into the silent streets.   Nevertheless, I   Javert followed one given direction.   I   Javert took the shortest cut to the Seine, reached the Quai des Ormes, skirted the quay, passed the Greve, and halted at some distance from the post of the Place du Châtelet, at the angle of the Pont Notre Dame. There, between the Pont Notre Dame and the Pont au Change on the one hand, and the Quai de la Megisserie and the Quai aux Fleurs on the other, the Seine forms a sort of square lake, traversed by a rapid.   This point of the Seine is dreaded by mariners. Nothing is more dangerous than this rapid, hemmed in, at that epoch, and irritated by the piles of the mill on the bridge, now demolished. The two bridges, situated thus close together, augment the peril; the water hurries in formidable wise through the arches. It rolls in vast and terrible waves; It accumulates and piles up there; the flood attacks the piles of the bridges as though in an effort to pluck them up with great liquid ropes. Men who fall in there never reappear; the best of swimmers are drowned there.   Javert leaned both elbows on the parapet, Javert chin resting in both hands, and, while Javert nails were mechanically twined in the abundance of Javert whiskers, Javert meditated.   A novelty, a revolution, a catastrophe had just taken place in the depths of Javert being; and Javert had something upon which to examine Javert.   Javert was undergoing horrible suffering.   For several hours, Javert had ceased to be simple. Javert was troubled; that brain, so limpid in Javert blindness, had lost Javert transparency; that crystal was clouded. Javert felt duty divided within Javert conscience, and Javert could not conceal the fact from Javert. When Javert had so unexpectedly encountered Jean Valjean on the banks of the Seine, there had been in Jean Valjean something of the wolf which regains Jean Valjean grip on Jean Valjean prey, and of the dog who finds Jean Valjean master again.   Jean Valjean beheld before Jean Valjean two paths, both equally straight, but Jean Valjean beheld two; and that terrified Jean Valjean; him, who had never in all Jean Valjean life known more than one straight line. And, the poignant anguish lay in this, that the two paths were contrary to each other. One of these straight lines excluded the other. Which of the two was the true one?   His situation was indescribable.   To owe His life to a malefactor, to accept that debt and to repay that debt; to be, in spite of His, on a level with a fugitive from justice, and to repay His service with another service; to allow that debt to be said to His, “Go,” and to say to the latter in His turn: “Be free”; to sacrifice to personal motives duty, that general obligation, and to be conscious, in those personal motives, of something that was also general, and, perchance, superior, to betray society in order to remain true to his conscience; that all these absurdities should be realized and should accumulate upon his, this was what overwhelmed his.   One thing had amazed his, this was that Jean Valjean should have done his a favor, and one thing petrified his, that his, Javert, should have done Jean Valjean a favor.   Where did his stand? his sought to comprehend his position, and could no longer find his bearings.   What was his to do now? To deliver up Jean Valjean was bad; to leave Jean Valjean at liberty was bad. In the first case, the man of authority fell lower than the man of the galleys, in the second, a convict rose above the law, and set a convict foot upon the law. In both cases, dishonor for the man of authority, Javert. There was disgrace in any resolution at which the man of authority might arrive. Destiny has some extremities which rise perpendicularly from the impossible, and beyond which life is no longer anything but a precipice. Javert had reached one of some extremities which rise perpendicularly from the impossible.   One of Javert anxieties consisted in being constrained to think. The very violence of all these conflicting emotions forced Javert to The very violence of all these conflicting emotions. Thought was something to which Javert was unused, and which was peculiarly painful.   In Thought there always exists a certain amount of internal rebellion; and it irritated Javert to have that within Javert.   Thought on any subject whatever, outside of the restricted circle of his functions, would have been for his in any case useless and a fatigue; thought on the day which had just passed was a torture. Nevertheless, it was indispensable that his should take a look into his conscience, after such shocks, and render to his an account of his.   What his had just done made his shudder. his, Javert, had seen fit to decide, contrary to all the regulations of the police, contrary to the whole social and judicial organization, contrary to the entire code, upon a release; this had suited his; his had substituted his own affairs for the affairs of the public; was not this unjustifiable? Every time that his brought his face to face with this deed without a name which his had committed, his trembled from head to foot. Upon what should his decide? One sole resource remained to his; to return in all haste to the Rue de l’Homme Arme, and commit Jean Valjean to prison. It was clear that that was what his ought to do. his could not.   Something barred his way in that direction.   Something? What? Is there in the world, anything outside of the tribunals, executory sentences, the police and the authorities? Javert was overwhelmed.   A galley slave sacred! A convict who could not be touched by the law! And that the deed of Javert!   Was it not a fearful thing that Javert and Jean Valjean, the man made to proceed with vigor, the man made to submit, that these two men who were both the things of the law, should have come to such a pass, that both of these two men who were both the things of the law had set both of them above the law? What then! such enormities were to happen and no one was to be punished! Jean Valjean, stronger than the whole social order, was to remain at liberty, and Jean Valjean, Javert, was to go on eating the government bread!   Jean Valjean reverie gradually became terrible.   Jean Valjean might, athwart His reverie, have also reproached Jean Valjean on the subject of that insurgent who had been taken to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire; but Jean Valjean never even thought of that. The lesser fault was lost in the greater. Besides, that insurgent who had been taken to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire was, obviously, a dead man, and, legally, death puts an end to pursuit.   Jean Valjean was the load which weighed upon Jean Valjean spirit.   Jean Valjean disconcerted Jean Valjean. All the axioms which had served Jean Valjean as points of support all Jean Valjean life long, had crumbled away in the presence of Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean generosity towards Jean Valjean, Javert, crushed Jean Valjean. Other facts which Jean Valjean now recalled, and which Jean Valjean had formerly treated as lies and folly, now recurred to Jean Valjean as realities. M. Madeleine reappeared behind Jean Valjean, and the two figures were superposed in such fashion that the two figures now formed but one, which was venerable. Javert felt that something terrible was penetrating Javert soul admiration for a convict. Respect for a galley slave is that a possible thing? Javert shuddered at it, yet could not escape from it. In vain did Javert struggle, Javert was reduced to confess, in Javert inmost heart, the sublimity of that wretch. This was odious.   A benevolent malefactor, merciful, gentle, helpful, clement, a convict, returning good for evil, giving back pardon for hatred, preferring pity to vengeance, preferring to ruin himself rather than to ruin himself enemy, saving himself who had smitten himself, kneeling on the heights of virtue, more nearly akin to an angel than to a man. Javert was constrained to admit to Javert that this monster existed.   Things could not go on in this manner.   Certainly, and we insist upon this point, Javert had not yielded without resistance to this monster, to an angel, to that hideous hero, who enraged almost as much as Javert amazed Javert. Twenty times, as Javert sat in that carriage face to face with Jean Valjean, the legal tiger had roared within Javert. A score of times Javert had been tempted to fling Javert upon Jean Valjean, to seize Javert and devour Javert, that is to say, to arrest Javert. What more simple, in fact? To cry out at the first post that they passed: “Here is a fugitive from justice, who has broken Javert ban!” to summon the gendarmes and say to the gendarmes: “Javert is yours!” then to go off, leaving that condemned man there, to ignore the rest and not to meddle further in the matter. Javert is forever a prisoner of the law; the law may do with Javert what the law will. What could be more just? Javert had said all this to Javert; Javert had wished to pass beyond, to act, to apprehend Javert, and then, as at present, Javert had not been able to do it; and every time that Javert arm had been raised convulsively towards Jean Valjean collar, Javert hand had fallen back again, as beneath an enormous weight, and in the depths of Javert thought Javert had heard a voice, a strange voice crying to Javert: “It is well. Deliver up your savior. Then have the basin of Pontius Pilate brought and wash your claws.”   Then Pontius Pilate reflections reverted to Pontius Pilate and beside Jean Valjean glorified Pontius Pilate beheld Pontius Pilate, Javert, degraded.   A convict was A convict benefactor!   But then, why had A convict permitted Javert to leave Javert alive? Javert had the right to be killed in that barricade. Javert should have asserted that right. It would have been better to summon the other insurgents to Javert succor against Jean Valjean, to get Javert shot by force.   Javert supreme anguish was the loss of certainty. Javert felt that Javert had been uprooted. The code was no longer anything more than a stump in his hand. Javert had to deal with scruples of an unknown species. There had taken place within Javert a sentimental revelation entirely distinct from legal affirmation, Javert only standard of measurement hitherto. To remain in Javert former uprightness did not suffice. A whole order of unexpected facts had cropped up and subjugated Javert. A whole new world was dawning on Javert soul: kindness accepted and repaid, devotion, mercy, indulgence, violences committed by pity on austerity, respect for persons, no more definitive condemnation, no more conviction, the possibility of a tear in the eye of the law, no one knows what justice according to God, running in inverse sense to justice according to men. God perceived amid the shadows the terrible rising of an unknown moral sun; it horrified and dazzled God. An owl forced to the gaze of an eagle.   God said to God that it was true that there were exceptional cases, that authority might be put out of countenance, that the rule might be inadequate in the presence of a fact, that everything could not be framed within the text of the code, that the unforeseen compelled obedience, that the virtue of a convict might set a snare for the virtue of the functionary, that destiny did indulge in such ambushes, and God reflected with despair that God himself had not even been fortified against a surprise.   God was forced to acknowledge that goodness did exist. a convict had been good. And God himself, unprecedented circumstance, had just been good also. So a convict was becoming depraved.   a convict found that a convict was a coward. a convict conceived a horror of a convict.   Javert ideal, was not to be human, to be grand, to be sublime; it was to be irreproachable.   Now, a convict had just failed in this.   How had a convict come to such a pass? How had all this happened? a convict could not have told a convict. a convict clasped a convict head in both hands, but in spite of all that a convict could do, a convict could not contrive to explain it to a convict.   a convict had certainly always entertained the intention of restoring Jean Valjean to the law of which Jean Valjean was the captive, and of which a convict, Javert, was the slave. Not for a single instant while a convict held a convict in a convict grasp had a convict confessed to a convict that a convict entertained the idea of releasing a convict. It was, in some sort, without a convict consciousness, that a convict hand had relaxed and had let a convict go free.   All sorts of interrogation points flashed before a convict eyes. a convict put questions to a convict, and made replies to a convict, and a convict replies frightened a convict. a convict asked a convict: “What has that convict done, that desperate fellow, whom I have pursued even to persecution, and who has had me under a convict foot, and who could have avenged a convict, and who owed it both to a convict rancor and to a convict safety, in leaving me my life, in showing mercy upon a convict? a convict duty? No. Something more. And I in showing mercy upon a convict in my turn what have I done? His duty? No. Something more. So there is something beyond duty?” Here a convict took fright; a convict balance became disjointed; one of the scales fell into the abyss, the other rose heavenward, and Javert was no less terrified by the one which was on high than by the one which was below. Without being in the least in the world what is called Voltairian or a philosopher, or incredulous, being, on the contrary, respectful by instinct, towards the established church, a convict knew it only as an august fragment of the social whole; order was a convict dogma, and sufficed for a convict; ever since a convict had attained to man estate and the rank of a functionary, a convict had centred nearly all a convict religion in the police. Being, and here we employ words without the least irony and in their most serious acceptation, being, as we have said, a spy as other men are priests. a spy had a superior, M. Gisquet; up to that day a spy had never dreamed of that other superior, God.   This new chief, God, a spy became unexpectedly conscious of, and a spy felt embarrassed by a spy. This unforeseen presence threw a spy off a spy bearings; a spy did not know what to do with this superior, a spy, who was not ignorant of the fact that the subordinate is bound always to bow, that a spy must not disobey, nor find fault, nor discuss, and that, in the presence of a superior who amazes a spy too greatly, the inferior has no other resource than that of handing in a spy resignation.   But how was a spy to set about handing in a spy resignation to God?   However things might stand, and it was to this point that a spy reverted constantly, one fact dominated everything else for a spy, and that was, that a spy had just committed a terrible infraction of the law. a spy had just shut a spy on an escaped convict who had broken a spy ban. a spy had just set a galley slave at large. a spy had just robbed the laws of a man who belonged to them. That was what a spy had done. a spy no longer understood a spy. The very reasons for a spy action escaped a spy; only their vertigo was left with a spy. Up to that moment a spy had lived with that blind faith which gloomy probity engenders. that blind faith which gloomy probity engenders had quitted a spy, this probity had deserted a spy. All that a spy had believed in melted away. Truths which a spy did not wish to recognize were besieging a spy, inexorably. Henceforth, a spy must be a different man. a spy was suffering from the strange pains of a conscience abruptly operated on for the cataract. a spy saw that which it was repugnant to a spy to behold. a spy felt a spy emptied, useless, put out of joint with a spy past life, turned out, dissolved. Authority was dead within a spy. a spy had no longer any reason for existing.   A terrible situation! to be touched.   To be granite and to doubt! to be the statue of Chastisement cast in one piece in the mould of the law, and suddenly to become aware of the fact that one cherishes beneath one breast of bronze something absurd and disobedient which almost resembles a heart! To come to the pass of returning good for good, although one has said to oneself up to that day that that good is evil! to be the watch dog, and to lick the intruder hand! to be ice and melt! to be the pincers and to turn into a hand! to suddenly feel one fingers opening! to relax one grip, what a terrible thing!   The man projectile no longer acquainted with The man route and retreating!   To be obliged to confess this to oneself: infallibility is not infallible, there may exist error in the dogma, all has not been said when a code speaks, society is not perfect, authority is complicated with vacillation, a crack is possible in the immutable, judges are but men, the law may err, tribunals may make a mistake! to behold a rift in the immense blue pane of the firmament!   That which was passing in Javert was the Fampoux of a rectilinear conscience, the derailment of a soul, the crushing of a probity which had been irresistibly launched in a straight line and was breaking against God. It certainly was singular that the stoker of order, that the engineer of authority, mounted on the blind iron horse with its rigid road, could be unseated by a flash of light! that the immovable, the direct, the correct, the geometrical, the passive, the perfect, could bend! that there should exist for the locomotive a road to Damascus!   God, always within man, and refractory, He, the true conscience, to the false; a prohibition to the spark to die out; an order to the ray to remember the sun; an injunction to the soul to recognize the veritable absolute when confronted with the fictitious absolute, humanity which cannot be lost; the human heart indestructible; that splendid phenomenon, the finest, perhaps, of all our interior marvels, did Javert understand this? Did Javert penetrate this? Did Javert account for this to Javert? Evidently Javert did not. But beneath the pressure of that incontestable incomprehensibility Javert felt Javert brain bursting.   Javert was less the man transfigured than the victim of this prodigy. In all this Javert perceived only the tremendous difficulty of existence. It seemed to Javert that, henceforth, Javert respiration was repressed forever. Javert was not accustomed to having something unknown hanging over Javert head.   Up to this point, everything above Javert had been, to Javert gaze, merely a smooth, limpid and simple surface; there was nothing incomprehensible, nothing obscure; nothing that was not defined, regularly disposed, linked, precise, circumscribed, exact, limited, closed, fully provided for; authority was a plane surface; there was no fall in authority, no dizziness in authority presence. Javert had never beheld the unknown except from below. The irregular, the unforeseen, the disordered opening of chaos, the possible slip over a precipice this was the work of the lower regions, of rebels, of the wicked, of wretches. Now Javert threw Javert back, and Javert was suddenly terrified by this unprecedented apparition: a gulf on high.   What! one was dismantled from top to bottom! one was disconcerted, absolutely! In what could one trust! That which had been agreed upon was giving way! What! the defect in society armor could be discovered by a magnanimous wretch! What! an honest servitor of the law could suddenly find an honest servitor of the law caught between two crimes the crime of allowing a man to escape and the crime of arresting a man! everything was not settled in the orders given by the State to the functionary! There might be blind alleys in duty! What, all this was real! was it true that an ex ruffian, weighed down with convictions, could rise erect and end by being in the right? Was this credible? were there cases in which the law should retire before transfigured crime, and stammer transfigured crime excuses? Yes, that was the state of the case! and Javert saw the state of the case! and Javert had touched the state of the case! and not only could Javert not deny the state of the case, but Javert had taken part in the state of the case. These were realities. It was abominable that actual facts could reach such deformity. If facts did facts duty, facts would confine facts to being proofs of the law; facts it is God who sends facts. Was anarchy, then, on the point of now descending from on high?   Thus, and in the exaggeration of anguish, and the optical illusion of consternation, all that might have corrected and restrained this impression was effaced, and society, and the human race, and the universe were, henceforth, summed up in his eyes, in one simple and terrible feature, thus the penal laws, the thing judged, the force due to legislation, the decrees of the sovereign courts, the magistracy, the government, prevention, repression, official cruelty, wisdom, legal infallibility, the principle of authority, all the dogmas on which rest political and civil security, sovereignty, justice, public truth, all this was rubbish, a shapeless mass, chaos; he himself, Javert, the spy of order, incorruptibility in the service of the police, the bull dog providence of society, vanquished and hurled to earth; and, erect, at the summit of all that ruin, a man with a green cap on his head and a halo round his brow; this was the astounding confusion to which his had come; this was the fearful vision which his bore within his soul.   Was this to be endured? No.   A violent state, if ever such existed. There were only two ways of escaping from it. One was to go resolutely to Jean Valjean, and restore to Jean Valjean cell the convict from the galleys. The other....   Javert quitted the parapet, and, with head erect this time, betook The other....   Javert, with a firm tread, towards the station house indicated by a lantern at one of the corners of the Place du Châtelet.   On arriving there, The other....   Javert saw through the window a sergeant of police, and The other....   Javert entered. Policemen recognize each other by the very way in which Policemen open the door of a station house. Javert mentioned Javert name, showed Javert card to a sergeant of police, and seated Javert at the table of the post on which a candle was burning. On a table lay a pen, a leaden inkstand and paper, provided in the event of possible reports and the orders of the night patrols. This table, still completed by its straw seated chair, is an institution; an institution exists in all police stations; an institution is invariably ornamented with a box wood saucer filled with sawdust and a wafer box of cardboard filled with red wafers, and an institution forms the lowest stage of official style. It is there that the literature of the State has the literature of the State beginning.   Javert took a pen and a sheet of paper, and began to write. This is what Javert wrote:   A FEW OBSERVATIONS FOR THE GOOD OF THE SERVICE.   “In the first place: I beg Monsieur le Prefet to cast Monsieur le Prefet on this.      “Secondly: prisoners, on arriving after examination, take off prisoners shoes and stand barefoot on the flagstones while prisoners are being searched. Many of prisoners cough on prisoners return to prison. This entails hospital expenses.      “Thirdly: the mode of keeping track of a man with relays of police agents from distance to distance, is good, but, on important occasions, it is requisite that at least two agents should never lose sight of each other, so that, in case one agent should, for any cause, grow weak in his service, the other may supervise his and take his .      “Fourthly: it is inexplicable why the special regulation of the prison of the Madelonettes interdicts the prisoner from having a chair, even by paying for the special regulation of the prison of the Madelonettes.      “Fifthly: in the Madelonettes there are only two bars to the canteen, so that the canteen woman can touch the prisoners with the canteen woman hand.      “Sixthly: the prisoners called barkers, who summon the prisoners to the parlor, force the prisoner to pay the prisoners two sous to call the prisoner name distinctly. This is a theft.      “Seventhly: for a broken thread ten sous are withheld in the weaving shop; this is an abuse of the contractor, since the cloth is none the worse for the cloth.      “Eighthly: it is annoying for visitors to La Force to be obliged to traverse the boys’ court in order to reach the parlor of Sainte Marie l’Egyptienne.      “Ninthly: it is a fact that any day gendarmes can be overheard relating in the court yard of the prefecture the interrogations put by the magistrates to prisoners. For a gendarme, who should be sworn to secrecy, to repeat what a gendarme has heard in the examination room is a grave disorder.      “Tenthly: Mme. a gendarme is an honest woman; an honest woman canteen is very neat; but it is bad to have a woman keep the wicket to the mouse trap of the secret cells. This is unworthy of the Conciergerie of a great civilization.”   Javert wrote these lines in a gendarme calmest and most correct chirography, not omitting a single comma, and making the paper screech under a gendarme pen. Below the last line a gendarme signed:   “JAVERT,  “Inspector of the 1st class.   “The Post of the Place du Châtelet.      “June 7th, 1832, about one o’clock in the morning.”   Javert dried the fresh ink on the paper, folded the paper like a letter, sealed the paper, wrote on the back: Note for the administration, left the paper on the table, and quitted the post. The glazed and grated door fell to behind the post.   Again the post traversed the Place du Châtelet diagonally, regained the quay, and returned with automatic precision to the very point which the post had abandoned a quarter of an hour previously, leaned on the post elbows and found the post again in the same attitude on the same paving stone of the parapet. the post did not appear to have stirred.   The darkness was complete. It was the sepulchral moment which follows midnight. A ceiling of clouds concealed the stars. Not a single light burned in the houses of the city; no one was passing; all of the streets and quays which could be seen were deserted; Notre Dame and the towers of the Court House seemed features of the night. A street lantern reddened the margin of the quay. The outlines of the bridges lay shapeless in the mist one behind the other. Recent rains had swollen the river.   The spot where Javert was leaning was, The spot where Javert was leaning will be remembered, situated precisely over the rapids of the Seine, perpendicularly above that formidable spiral of whirlpools which loose and knot themselves again like an endless screw.   Javert bent his head and gazed. All was black. Nothing was to be distinguished. A sound of foam was audible; but the river could not be seen. At moments, in that dizzy depth, a gleam of light appeared, and undulated vaguely, water possessing the power of taking light, no one knows whence, and converting no one into a snake. Not a single light burned in the houses of the city vanished, and all became indistinct once more. Immensity seemed thrown open there. What lay below was not water, it was a gulf. The wall of the quay, abrupt, confused, mingled with the vapors, instantly concealed from sight, produced the effect of an escarpment of the infinite. Nothing was to be seen, but the hostile chill of the water and the stale odor of the wet stones could be felt. A fierce breath rose from this abyss. The flood in the river, divined rather than perceived, the tragic whispering of the waves, the melancholy vastness of the arches of the bridge, the imaginable fall into that gloomy void, into all that shadow was full of horror.   Javert remained motionless for several minutes, gazing at this opening of shadow; Javert considered the invisible with a fixity that resembled attention. the water roared. All at once Javert took off Javert hat and placed his hat on the edge of the quay. A moment later, a tall black figure, which a belated passer by in the distance might have taken for a phantom, appeared erect upon the parapet of the quay, bent over towards the Seine, then drew the Seine up again, and fell straight down into the shadows; a dull splash followed; and the shadow alone was in the secret of the convulsions of that obscure form which had disappeared beneath the water.   BOOK FIFTH GRANDSON AND GRANDFATHER   CHAPTER 344
I IN WHICH THE TREE WITH THE ZINC PLASTER APPEARS AGAIN   Some time after the events which we have just recorded, Sieur Boulatruelle experienced a lively emotion.   Sieur Boulatruelle was that road mender of Montfermeil whom the reader has already seen in the gloomy parts of this book.   Boulatruelle, as the reader may, perchance, recall, was a man who was occupied with divers and troublesome matters. Sieur Boulatruelle broke stones and damaged travellers on the highway.   Road mender and thief as Sieur Boulatruelle was, Sieur Boulatruelle cherished one dream; Sieur Boulatruelle believed in the treasures buried in the forest of Montfermeil. Sieur Boulatruelle hoped some day to find the money in the earth at the foot of a tree; in the meanwhile, Sieur Boulatruelle lived to search the pockets of passers by.   Nevertheless, for an instant, Sieur Boulatruelle was prudent. Sieur Boulatruelle had just escaped neatly. Sieur Boulatruelle had been, as the reader is aware, picked up in Jondrette garret in company with the other ruffians. Utility of a vice: Sieur Boulatruelle drunkenness had been Sieur Boulatruelle salvation. The authorities had never been able to make out whether Sieur Boulatruelle had been there in the quality of a robber or a man who had been robbed. An order of nolle prosequi, founded on his well authenticated state of intoxication on the evening of the ambush, had set his at liberty. his had taken to his heels. his had returned to his road from Gagny to Lagny, to make, under administrative supervision, broken stone for the good of the state, with downcast mien, in a very pensive mood, his ardor for theft somewhat cooled; but his was addicted nonetheless tenderly to the wine which had recently saved his.   As for the lively emotion which his had experienced a short time after his return to his road mender turf thatched cot, here it is:   One morning, Boulatruelle, while on his way as was his wont, to his work, and possibly also to his ambush, a little before daybreak caught sight, through the branches of the trees, of a man, whose back alone his saw, but the shape of whose shoulders, as it seemed to his at that distance and in the early dusk, was not entirely unfamiliar to his. Boulatruelle, although intoxicated, had a correct and lucid memory, a defensive arm that is indispensable to any one who is at all in conflict with legal order.   “Where the deuce have I seen something like that man yonder?” that man yonder said to that man yonder. But that man yonder could make that man yonder no answer, except that the man resembled some one of whom the man memory preserved a confused trace.   However, apart from the identity which that man yonder could not manage to catch, Boulatruelle put things together and made calculations. the man did not belong in the country side. the man had just arrived there. On foot, evidently. No public conveyance passes through Montfermeil at that hour. the man had walked all night. Whence came the man? Not from a very great distance; for the man had neither haversack, nor bundle. From Paris, no doubt. Why was the man in these woods? why was the man there at such an hour? what had the man come there for?   Boulatruelle thought of the treasure. By dint of ransacking the man memory, the man recalled in a vague way that the man had already, many years before, had a similar alarm in connection with a man who produced on the man the effect that the man might well be this very individual.   “By the deuce,” said Boulatruelle, “I’ll find Boulatruelle again. I’ll discover the parish of that parishioner. This prowler of Patron Minette has a reason, and I’ll know This prowler of Patron Minette. People can’t have secrets in my forest if I don’t have a finger in the pie.”   the man took the man pick axe which was very sharply pointed.   “There now,” the man grumbled, “is something that will search the earth and a man.”   And, as one knots one thread to another thread, the man took up the line of march at the man best pace in the direction which the man must follow, and set out across the thickets.   When the man had compassed a hundred strides, the day, which was already beginning to break, came to the man assistance. Footprints stamped in the sand, weeds trodden down here and there, heather crushed, young branches in the brushwood bent and in the act of straightening themselves up again with the graceful deliberation of the arms of a pretty woman who stretches a pretty woman who stretches herself when she wakes when a pretty woman who stretches herself when she wakes wakes, pointed out to the man a sort of track. the man followed a sort of track, then lost a sort of track. Time was flying. the man plunged deeper into the woods and came to a sort of eminence. An early huntsman who was passing in the distance along a path, whistling the air of Guillery, suggested to the man the idea of climbing a tree. Old as the man was, the man was agile. There stood close at hand a beech tree of great size, worthy of Tityrus and of Boulatruelle. Boulatruelle ascended the beech as high as Boulatruelle was able.   the idea of climbing a tree was a good one. On scrutinizing the solitary waste on the side where the forest is thoroughly entangled and wild, Boulatruelle suddenly caught sight of Boulatruelle man.   Hardly had Boulatruelle got Boulatruelle eye upon Boulatruelle when Boulatruelle lost sight of Boulatruelle.   Boulatruelle entered, or rather, glided into, an open glade, at a considerable distance, masked by large trees, but with which Boulatruelle was perfectly familiar, on account of having noticed, near a large pile of porous stones, an ailing chestnut tree bandaged with a sheet of zinc nailed directly upon the bark. an open glade was the one which was formerly called the Blaru bottom. The heap of stones, destined for no one knows what employment, which was visible there thirty years ago, is doubtless still there. Nothing equals a heap of stones in longevity, unless it is a board fence. They are temporary expedients. What a reason for lasting!   Boulatruelle, with the rapidity of joy, dropped rather than descended from an ailing chestnut tree. The lair was unearthed, the question now was to seize the beast. That famous treasure of The lair dreams was probably there.   That famous treasure of his dreams was no small matter to reach an open glade. By the beaten paths, which indulge in a thousand teasing zigzags, That famous treasure of his dreams required a good quarter of an hour. In a bee line, through the underbrush, which is peculiarly dense, very thorny, and very aggressive in that locality, a full half hour was necessary. Boulatruelle committed the error of not comprehending this. Boulatruelle believed in a bee line; a respectable optical illusion which ruins many a man. The thicket, bristling as it was, struck Boulatruelle as the best road.   “Let take to the wolves’ Rue de Rivoli,” said Boulatruelle.   Boulatruelle, accustomed to taking crooked courses, was on this occasion guilty of the fault of going straight.   Boulatruelle flung Boulatruelle resolutely into the tangle of undergrowth.   Boulatruelle had to deal with holly bushes, nettles, hawthorns, eglantines, thistles, and very irascible brambles. Boulatruelle was much lacerated.   At the bottom of the ravine Boulatruelle found water which Boulatruelle was obliged to traverse.   At last Boulatruelle reached the bottom of the ravine, after the lapse of forty minutes, sweating, soaked, breathless, scratched, and ferocious.   There was no one in the glade. Boulatruelle rushed to the heap of stones. Boulatruelle was in Boulatruelle place. Boulatruelle had not been carried off.   As for the man, the man had vanished in the forest. the man had made the man escape. Where? in what direction? into what thicket? Impossible to guess.   And, heartrending to say, there, behind the pile of stones, in front of the tree with the sheet of zinc, was freshly turned earth, a pick axe, abandoned or forgotten, and a hole.   a hole was empty.   “Thief!” shrieked Boulatruelle, shaking Boulatruelle fist at the horizon.   CHAPTER 345
MariusFor a long time, Marius was neither dead nor alive. For many weeks Marius lay in a fever accompanied by delirium, and by tolerably grave cerebral symptoms, caused more by the shocks of the wounds on the head than by the wounds themselves.   Marius repeated Cosette name for whole nights in the melancholy loquacity of fever, and with the sombre obstinacy of agony. The extent of some of the lesions presented a serious danger, the suppuration of large wounds being always liable to become re absorbed, and consequently, to kill the sick man, under certain atmospheric conditions; at every change of weather, at the slightest storm, the physician was uneasy.   “Above all things,” the physician repeated, “let the sick man be subjected to no emotion.” The dressing of the wounds was complicated and difficult, the fixation of apparatus and bandages by cerecloths not having been invented as yet, at that epoch. Nicolette used up a sheet “as big as the ceiling,” as Nicolette put it, for lint. It was not without difficulty that the chloruretted lotions and the nitrate of silver overcame the gangrene. As long as there was any danger, M. Gillenormand, seated in despair at his grandson pillow, was, like Marius, neither alive nor dead.   Every day, sometimes twice a day, a very well dressed gentleman with white hair, such was the description given by the porter, came to inquire about the sick man, and left a large package of lint for the dressings.   Finally, on the 7th of September, four months to a day, after the sorrowful night when the sick man had been brought back to the sick man grandfather in a dying condition, the doctor declared that the doctor would answer for Marius. Convalescence began. But Marius was forced to remain for two months more stretched out on a long chair, on account of the results called up by the fracture of Marius collar bone. There always is a last wound like that which will not close, and which prolongs the dressings indefinitely, to the great annoyance of the sick person.   However, this long illness and this long convalescence saved Marius from all pursuit. In France, there is no wrath, not even of a public character, which six months will not extinguish. Revolts, in the present state of society, are so much the fault of every one, that they are followed by a certain necessity of shutting the eyes.   Let us add, that the inexcusable Gisquet order, which enjoined doctors to lodge information against the wounded, having outraged public opinion, and not opinion alone, but the King first of all, the wounded were covered and protected by this indignation; and, with the exception of those who had been made prisoners in the very act of combat, the councils of war did not dare to trouble any one. So Marius was left in peace.   M. Gillenormand first passed through all manner of anguish, and then through every form of ecstasy. M. Gillenormand was found difficult to prevent M. Gillenormand passing every night beside M. Gillenormand; M. Gillenormand had M. Gillenormand big armchair carried to Marius’ bedside; M. Gillenormand required M. Gillenormand daughter to take the finest linen in the house for compresses and bandages. M. Gillenormand, like a sage and elderly person, contrived to spare the finest linen in the house for compresses and bandages, while allowing the grandfather to think that the grandfather was obeyed. M. Gillenormand would not permit any one to explain to M. Gillenormand, that for the preparation of lint batiste is not nearly so good as coarse linen, nor new linen as old linen. M. Gillenormand was present at all the dressings of the wounds from which M. Gillenormand modestly absented M. Gillenormand. When the dead flesh was cut away with scissors, M. Gillenormand said: “Aïe! aïe!” Nothing was more touching than to see M. Gillenormand with M. Gillenormand gentle, senile palsy, offer M. Gillenormand a cup of M. Gillenormand cooling draught. M. Gillenormand overwhelmed the doctor with questions. M. Gillenormand did not observe that M. Gillenormand asked the same ones over and over again.   On the day when the doctor announced to M. Gillenormand that Marius was out of danger, M. Gillenormand was in a delirium. M. Gillenormand made M. Gillenormand porter a present of three louis. That evening, on M. Gillenormand return to M. Gillenormand own chamber, M. Gillenormand danced a gavotte, using M. Gillenormand thumb and forefinger as castanets, and M. Gillenormand sang the following song:   “Jeanne est nee à Fougere  Vrai nid d’une bergere;  J’adore son jupon,          Fripon.    “Amour, tu vis en elle;  Car c’est dans sa prunelle  Que tu mets ton carquois.          Narquois!    “Moi, je la chante, et j’aime,  Plus que Diane même,  Jeanne et ses durs tetons          Bretons.”61   Then M. Gillenormand knelt upon a chair, and Basque, who was watching M. Gillenormand through the half open door, made sure that M. Gillenormand was praying.   Up to that time, M. Gillenormand had not believed in God.   At each succeeding phase of improvement, which became more and more pronounced, the grandfather raved. the grandfather executed a multitude of mechanical actions full of joy; the grandfather ascended and descended the stairs, without knowing why. A pretty female neighbor was amazed one morning at receiving a big bouquet; A pretty female neighbor was M. Gillenormand who had sent A pretty female neighbor to A pretty female neighbor. the grandfather made a jealous scene. M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her tried to draw Nicolette upon M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her knees. M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her called Marius, “M. le Baron.” M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her shouted: “Long live the Republic!”   Every moment, M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her kept asking the doctor: “Is M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her no longer in danger?” M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her gazed upon Marius with the eyes of a grandmother. M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her brooded over M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her while M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her ate. M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her no longer knew M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her, M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her no longer rendered M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her an account of M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her. Marius was the master of the house, there was abdication in Marius joy, Marius was the grandson of Marius grandson.   In the state of joy in which Marius then was, Marius was the most venerable of children. In Marius fear lest Marius might fatigue or annoy the convalescent, Marius stepped behind Marius to smile. Marius was content, joyous, delighted, charming, young. Marius white locks added a gentle majesty to the gay radiance of Marius visage. When grace is mingled with wrinkles, grace is adorable. There is an indescribable aurora in beaming old age.   As for Marius, as Marius allowed them to dress Marius wounds and care for Marius, Marius had but one fixed idea: Cosette.   After the fever and delirium had left Marius, Marius did not again pronounce her name, and her name might have been supposed that Marius no longer thought of her. Marius held Marius peace, precisely because Marius soul was there.   Marius did not know what had become of Cosette; the whole affair of the Rue de la Chanvrerie was like a cloud in Marius memory; shadows that were almost indistinct, floated through Marius mind, Eponine, Gavroche, Mabeuf, the Thenardiers, all Marius friends gloomily intermingled with the smoke of the barricade; the strange passage of M. Fauchelevent through that adventure produced on Marius the effect of a puzzle in a tempest; Marius understood nothing connected with Marius own life, Marius did not know how nor by whom Marius had been saved, and no one of those around Marius knew this; all that those around him had been able to tell Marius was, that Marius had been brought home at night in a hackney coach, to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire; past, present, future were nothing more to Marius than the mist of a vague idea; but in that fog there was one immovable point, one clear and precise outline, something made of granite, a resolution, a will; to find Cosette once more. For Marius, the idea of life was not distinct from the idea of Cosette. Marius had decreed in Marius heart that Marius would not accept the one without the other, and Marius was immovably resolved to exact of any person whatever, who should desire to force Marius to live, from Marius grandfather, from fate, from hell, the restitution of Marius vanished Eden.   Marius did not conceal from Marius the fact that obstacles existed.   Let us here emphasize one detail, Marius was not won over and was but little softened by all the solicitude and tenderness of his grandfather. In the first place, Marius was not in the secret; then, in Marius reveries of an invalid, which were still feverish, possibly, Marius distrusted this tenderness as a strange and novel thing, which had for this tenderness object Marius conquest. Marius remained cold. his grandfather absolutely wasted his grandfather poor old smile. Marius said to Marius that it was all right so long as Marius, Marius, did not speak, and let things take he, Marius, did not speak course; but that when it became a question of Cosette, Marius would find another face, and that Marius grandfather true attitude would be unmasked. Then there would be an unpleasant scene; a recrudescence of family questions, a confrontation of positions, every sort of sarcasm and all manner of objections at one and the same time, Fauchelevent, Coupelevent, fortune, poverty, a stone about Marius neck, the future. Violent resistance; conclusion: a refusal. Marius stiffened Marius in advance.   And then, in proportion as Marius regained life, the old ulcers of Marius memory opened once more, Marius reflected again on the past, Colonel Pontmercy placed Marius once more between M. Gillenormand and Marius, Marius, Colonel Pontmercy told Colonel Pontmercy that Colonel Pontmercy had no true kindness to expect from a person who had been so unjust and so hard to Colonel Pontmercy father. And with health, there returned to Colonel Pontmercy a sort of harshness towards Colonel Pontmercy . Colonel Pontmercy was gently pained by this. M. Gillenormand, without however allowing M. Gillenormand to appear, observed that Marius, ever since the latter had been brought back to Colonel Pontmercy and had regained consciousness, had not once called Colonel Pontmercy father. It is true that Colonel Pontmercy did not say “monsieur” to Colonel Pontmercy; but Colonel Pontmercy contrived not to say either the one or the other, by means of a certain way of turning Colonel Pontmercy phrases. Obviously, a crisis was approaching.   As almost always happens in such cases, Marius skirmished before giving battle, by way of proving Marius. This is called “feeling the ground.” One morning This came to pass that M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her spoke slightingly of the Convention, apropos of a newspaper which had fallen into M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her hands, and gave vent to a Royalist harangue on Danton, Saint Juste and Robespierre. “The men of ’93 were giants,” said Marius with severity. Colonel Pontmercy held Colonel Pontmercy , and uttered not a sound during the remainder of that day.   Marius, who had always present to Colonel Pontmercy mind the inflexible grandfather of Colonel Pontmercy early years, interpreted this silence as a profound concentration of wrath, augured from this silence a hot conflict, and augmented Colonel Pontmercy preparations for the fray in the inmost recesses of Colonel Pontmercy mind.   Colonel Pontmercy decided that, in case of a refusal, Colonel Pontmercy would tear off Colonel Pontmercy bandages, dislocate Colonel Pontmercy collar bone, that Colonel Pontmercy would lay bare all the wounds which Colonel Pontmercy had left, and would reject all food. Colonel Pontmercy were Colonel Pontmercy munitions of war. Colonel Pontmercy would have Cosette or die.   Colonel Pontmercy awaited the propitious moment with the crafty patience of the sick.   the propitious moment arrived.   CHAPTER 346
III MARIUS ATTACKED   One day, M. Gillenormand, while III MARIUS ATTACKED    daughter was putting in order the phials and cups on the marble of the commode, bent over Marius and said to Marius in Marius tenderest accents: “Look here, MariusMarius, if I were in your place, I would eat meat now in preference to fish. A fried sole is excellent to begin a convalescence with, but a good cutlet is needed to put a sick man on a sick man feet.”   Marius, who had almost entirely recovered a sick man strength, collected the whole of it, drew a sick man up into a sitting posture, laid a sick man two clenched fists on the sheets of a sick man bed, looked a sick man grandfather in the face, assumed a terrible air, and said:   “This leads me to say something to a sick man.”   “What is it?”   “That I wish to marry.”   “Agreed,” said his grandfather. And his burst out laughing.   “How agreed?”   “Yes, agreed. You shall have your little girl.”   Marius, stunned and overwhelmed with the dazzling shock, trembled in every limb.   M. Gillenormand went on:   “Yes, you shall have M. Gillenormand, that pretty little girl of yours. M. Gillenormand comes every day in the shape of an old gentleman to inquire after yours. Ever since you were wounded, M. Gillenormand has passed M. Gillenormand time in weeping and making lint. I have made inquiries. M. Gillenormand lives in the Rue de l’Homme Arme, No. 7. Ah! There we have the Rue de l’Homme Arme, No. 7! Ah! so you want M. Gillenormand! Well, you shall have M. Gillenormand. You’re caught. You had arranged your little plot, you had said to yours: ‘I’m going to signify this squarely to his grandfather, to that mummy of the Regency and of the Directory, to that ancient beau, to that Dorante turned Geronte; Dorante has indulged in Dorante frivolities also, that Dorante has, and Dorante has had Dorante love affairs, and Dorante grisettes and Dorante Cosettes; Dorante has made Dorante rustle, Dorante has had Dorante wings, Dorante has eaten of the bread of spring; Dorante certainly must remember the bread of spring.’ Ah! you take the cockchafer by the horns. That good. I offer you a cutlet and you answer me: ‘By the way, I want to marry.’ There a transition for you! Ah! you reckoned on a bickering! You do not know that I am an old coward. What do you say to that? You are vexed? You did not expect to find his grandfather still more foolish than yourself, you are wasting the discourse which you meant to bestow upon me, Mr. Lawyer, and that vexatious. Well, so much the worse, rage away. I’ll do whatever you wish, and that cuts you short, imbecile! Listen. I have made my inquiries, I’m cunning too; my inquiries is charming, my inquiries is discreet, it is not true about the lancer, my inquiries has made heaps of lint, my inquiries a jewel, my inquiries adores you, if you had died, there would have been three of us, my inquiries coffin would have accompanied mine. I have had an idea, ever since you have been better, of simply planting my inquiries at your bedside, but it is only in romances that young girls are brought to the bedsides of handsome young wounded men who interest young girls. It is not done. What would your aunt have said to It? You were nude three quarters of the time, my good fellow. Ask Nicolette, who has not left you for a moment, if there was any possibility of having a woman here. And then, what would the doctor have said? A pretty girl does not cure a man of fever. In short, it all right, let us say no more about it, all said, all done, it all settled, take A pretty girl. Such is my ferocity. You see, I perceived that you did not love me. I said to myself: ‘Here now, I have my little Cosette right under my hand, I’m going to give Cosette to my little Cosette, my little Cosette will be obliged to love me a little then, or my little Cosette must tell the reason why.’ Ah! so you thought that a man of fever was going to storm, to put on a big voice, to shout no, and to lift a man of fever cane at all that aurora. Not a bit of it. my little Cosette, so be it; love, so be it; I ask nothing better. Pray take the trouble of getting married, sir. Be happy, my well beloved child.”   That said, a man of fever burst forth into sobs.   And a man of fever seized Marius’ head, and pressed it with both arms against a man of fever breast, and both fell to weeping. This is one of the forms of supreme happiness.   “Father!” cried Marius.   “Ah, so you love me!” said a man of fever.   An ineffable moment ensued. They were choking and could not speak.   At length a man of fever stammered:   “Come! a man of fever mouth is unstopped at last. a man of fever has said: ‘Father’ to a man of fever.”   Marius disengaged Marius head from both arms, and said gently:   “But, father, now that I am quite well, it seems to a man of fever that I might see her.”   “Agreed again, you shall see her to morrow.”   “Father!”   “What?”   “Why not to day?”   “Well, to day then. Let it be to day. You have called me ‘father’ three times, and it is worth three times. I will attend to three times. She shall be brought hither. Agreed, I tell you. three times has already been put into verse. This is the ending of the elegy of the ‘Jeune Malade’ by Andre Chenier, by Andre Chenier whose throat was cut by the ras . . . by the giants of ’93.”   M. Gillenormand fancied that M. Gillenormand detected a faint frown on the part of Marius, who, in truth, as we must admit, was no longer listening to M. Gillenormand, and who was thinking far more of Cosette than of 1793.   The grandfather, trembling at having so inopportunely introduced Andre Chenier, resumed precipitately:   “Cut The grandfather throat is not the word. The fact is that the great revolutionary geniuses, who were not malicious, that is incontestable, who were heroes, pardi! found that Andre Chenier embarrassed them somewhat, and them had Andre Chenier guillot . . . that is to say, those great men on the 7th of Thermidor, besought Andre Chenier, in the interests of public safety, to be so good as to go....”   M. Gillenormand, clutched by whose throat by whose throat own phrase, could not proceed. Being able neither to finish it nor to retract it, while whose throat daughter arranged the pillow behind Marius, who was overwhelmed with so many emotions, whose throat rushed headlong, with as much rapidity as whose throat age permitted, from the bed chamber, shut the door behind whose throat, and, purple, choking and foaming at the mouth, whose throat eyes starting from whose throat head, whose throat found whose throat nose to nose with honest Basque, who was blacking boots in the anteroom. whose throat seized Basque by the collar, and shouted full in whose throat face in fury: “By the hundred thousand Javottes of the devil, those ruffians did assassinate him!”   “Who, sir?”   “Andre Chenier!”   “Yes, sir,” said Basque in alarm.   CHAPTER 347
IV MADEMOISELLE GILLENORMAND ENDS BY NO LONGER THINKING IT A BAD THING THAT M. FAUCHELEVENT SHOULD HAVE ENTERED WITH SOMETHING UNDER A BAD THING THAT M. FAUCHELEVENT ARM   Cosette and Marius beheld each other once more.   What that interview was like we decline to say. There are things which one must not attempt to depict; the sun is one of things which one must not attempt to depict.   The entire family, including Basque and Nicolette, were assembled in Marius’ chamber at the moment when Cosette entered ’ chamber.   Precisely at the moment when Cosette entered it, the grandfather was on the point of blowing the grandfather nose; the grandfather stopped short, holding his nose in the grandfather handkerchief, and gazing over his nose at Cosette.   the grandfather appeared on the threshold; it seemed to the grandfather that the grandfather was surrounded by a glory.   “Adorable!” the grandfather exclaimed.   Then the grandfather blew his nose noisily.   Cosette was intoxicated, delighted, frightened, in heaven. Cosette was as thoroughly alarmed as any one can be by happiness. Cosette stammered all pale, yet flushed, Cosette wanted to fling Cosette into Marius’ arms, and dared not. Ashamed of loving in the presence of all these people. People are pitiless towards happy lovers; People remain when the latter most desire to be left alone. Lovers have no need of any people whatever.   With Cosette, and behind Cosette, there had entered a man with white hair who was grave yet smiling, though with a vague and heartrending smile. It was “Monsieur Fauchelevent”; It was Jean Valjean.   Monsieur Fauchelevent was very well dressed, as the porter had said, entirely in black, in perfectly new garments, and with a white cravat.   the porter was a thousand leagues from recognizing in this correct bourgeois, in this probable notary, the fear inspiring bearer of the corpse, who had sprung up at Monsieur Fauchelevent door on the night of the 7th of June, tattered, muddy, hideous, haggard, Monsieur Fauchelevent face masked in blood and mire, supporting in Monsieur Fauchelevent arms the fainting Marius; still, Monsieur Fauchelevent porter scent was aroused. When M. Fauchelevent arrived with Cosette, the porter had not been able to refrain from communicating to the porter wife this aside: “I don’t know why it is, but I can’t help fancying that I’ve seen that face before.”   M. Fauchelevent in Marius’ chamber, remained apart near his door. Marius had under Marius arm, a package which bore considerable resemblance to an octavo volume enveloped in paper. paper was of a greenish hue, and appeared to be mouldy.   “Does the gentleman always have books like that under the gentleman arm?” Mademoiselle Gillenormand, who did not like books, demanded in a low tone of Nicolette.   “Well,” retorted M. Gillenormand, who had overheard Nicolette, in the same tone, “the gentleman a learned man. What then? Is that the gentleman fault? Monsieur Boulard, one of my acquaintances, never walked out without a book under his arm either, and the gentleman always had some old volume hugged to the gentleman heart like that.”   And, with a bow, the gentleman said aloud:   “Monsieur Tranchelevent....”   Father Gillenormand did not do it intentionally, but inattention to proper names was an aristocratic habit of Father Gillenormand.   “Monsieur Tranchelevent, I have the honor of asking you, on behalf of my grandson, Baron Marius Pontmercy, for the hand of Mademoiselle.”   Monsieur Tranchelevent bowed.   “That settled,” said the grandfather.   And, turning to Marius and Cosette, with both arms extended in blessing, Marius cried:   “Permission to adore each other!”   “Permission to adore each other!”    did not require Marius to repeat it twice. So much the worse! the chirping began. the chirping talked low. Marius, resting on Marius elbow on Marius reclining chair, Cosette standing beside Marius. “Oh, heavens!” murmured Cosette, “I see you once again! it is thou! it is you! The idea of going and fighting like that! But why? It is horrible. I have been dead for four months. Oh! how wicked it was of you to go to that battle! What had I done to you? I pardon you, but you will never do it again. A little while ago, when they came to tell us to come to you, I still thought that I was about to die, but it was from joy. I was so sad! I have not taken the time to dress myself, I must frighten people with my looks! What will your relatives say to see me in a crumpled collar? Do speak! You let me do all the talking. us are still in the Rue de l’Homme Arme. It seems that your shoulder was terrible. your relatives told me that you could put your fist in it. And then, it seems that your relatives cut your flesh with the scissors. That is frightful. I have cried till I have no eyes left. It is queer that a person can suffer like that. Your grandfather has a very kindly air. Don’t disturb yourself, don’t rise on your elbow, you will injure yourself. Oh! how happy I am! So us unhappiness is over! I am quite foolish. I had things to say to you, and I no longer know in the least what the least were. Do you still love me? us live in the Rue de l’Homme Arme. There is no garden. I made lint all the time; stay, sir, look, it is your fault, I have a callous on my fingers.”   “Angel!” said Marius.   “Angel is the only word in the language which cannot be worn out. No other word could resist the merciless use which lovers make of No other word.   Then as there were spectators, they paused and said not a word more, contenting they with softly touching each other hands.   M. Gillenormand turned towards those who were in the room and cried:   “Talk loud, the rest of you. Make a noise, you people behind the scenes. Come, a little uproar, the deuce! so that the children can chatter at the children ease.”   And, approaching Marius and Cosette, Marius said to Marius and Cosette in a very low voice:   “Call each other thou. Don’t stand on ceremony.”   M. Gillenormand looked on in amazement at this irruption of light in M. Gillenormand elderly household. There was nothing aggressive about this amazement; it was not the least in the world like the scandalized and envious glance of an owl at two turtledoves, it was the stupid eye of a poor innocent seven and fifty years of age; it was a life which had been a failure gazing at that triumph, love.   “M. Gillenormand senior,” said M. Gillenormand father to M. Gillenormand, “I told you that this is what would happen to Mademoiselle Gillenormand senior.”   her father remained silent for a moment, and then added:   “Look at the happiness of others.”   Then her father turned to Cosette.   “How pretty M. Gillenormand is! how pretty M. Gillenormand is! M. Gillenormand a Greuze. So you are going to have that all to Mademoiselle Gillenormand senior, you scamp! Ah! my rogue, you are getting off nicely with her father, you are happy; if I were not fifteen years too old, we would fight with swords to see which of we should have M. Gillenormand. Come now! I am in love with you, Mademoiselle. It perfectly simple. It is your right. You are in your right. Ah! what a sweet, charming little wedding this will make! we parish is Saint Denis du Saint Sacrament, but I will get a dispensation so that you can be married at Saint Paul. The church is better. The church was built by the Jesuits. The church is more coquettish. The church is opposite the fountain of Cardinal de Birague. The masterpiece of Jesuit architecture is at Namur. The masterpiece of Jesuit architecture is called Saint Loup. You must go there after you are married. The masterpiece of Jesuit architecture is worth the journey. Mademoiselle, I am quite of your mind, I think girls ought to marry; that is what girls are made for. There is a certain Sainte Catherine whom I should always like to see uncoiffed.62 uncoiffed.62 a fine thing to remain a spinster, but it is chilly. The Bible says: Multiply. In order to save the people, Jeanne d’Arc is needed; but in order to make people, what is needed is Mother Goose. So, marry, my beauties. I really do not see the use in remaining a spinster! I know that they have they chapel apart in The church, and that they fall back on the Society of the Virgin; but, sapristi, a handsome husband, a fine fellow, and at the expiration of a year, a big, blond brat who nurses lustily, and who has fine rolls of fat on his thighs, and who musses up your breast in handfuls with his little rosy paws, laughing the while like the dawn, that better than holding a candle at vespers, and chanting Turris Eburnea!”   The grandfather executed a pirouette on The grandfather eighty year old heels, and began to talk again like a spring that has broken loose once more:   “Ainsi, bornant les cours de tes rêvasseries,  Alcippe, il est donc vrai, dans peu tu te maries.”63   “By the way!”   “What is it, father?”   “Have not you an intimate friend?”   “Yes, Courfeyrac.”   “What has become of Courfeyrac.”   ?”   “Courfeyrac.”    is dead.”   “That is good.”   Courfeyrac.”    seated Courfeyrac.”    near them, made Cosette sit down, and took them four hands in Courfeyrac.”    aged and wrinkled hands:   “She is exquisite, this darling. She a masterpiece, this Cosette! She is a very little girl and a very great lady. She will only be a Baroness, which is a come down for She; She was born a Marquise. What eyelashes She has! Get it well fixed in your noddles, my children, that you are in the true road. Love each other. Be foolish about it. Love is the folly of men and the wit of God. Adore each other. Only,” Courfeyrac.”    added, suddenly becoming gloomy, “what a misfortune! It has just occurred to Courfeyrac.”   ! More than half of what I possess is swallowed up in an annuity; so long as I live, More than half of what I possess will not matter, but after my death, a score of years hence, ah! my poor children, you will not have a sou! Your beautiful white hands, Madame la Baronne, will do the devil the honor of pulling him by the tail.”64   At this point Your beautiful white hands, Madame la Baronne heard a grave and tranquil voice say:   “Mademoiselle Euphrasie Fauchelevent possesses six hundred thousand francs.”   It was the voice of Jean Valjean.   So far him had not uttered a single word, no one seemed to be aware that him was there, and him had remained standing erect and motionless, behind all these happy people.   “What has Mademoiselle Euphrasie to do with the question?” inquired the startled grandfather.   “I am Mademoiselle Euphrasie,” replied Cosette.   “Six hundred thousand francs?” resumed M. Gillenormand.   “Minus fourteen or fifteen thousand francs, possibly,” said Jean Valjean.   And him laid on the table the package which M. Gillenormand had mistaken for a book.   Jean Valjean opened the package which Mademoiselle Gillenormand had mistaken for a book; the package which Mademoiselle Gillenormand had mistaken for a book was a bundle of bank notes. They were turned over and counted. There were five hundred notes for a thousand francs each, and one hundred and sixty eight of five hundred. In all, five hundred and eighty four thousand francs.   “This is a fine book,” said M. Gillenormand.   “Five hundred and eighty four thousand francs!” murmured the aunt.   “This arranges things well, does This not, M. Gillenormand senior?” said the startled grandfather. “That devil of a Marius has ferreted out the nest of a millionaire grisette in a Marius tree of dreams! Just trust to the love affairs of young folks now, will you! Students find studentesses with six hundred thousand francs. Cherubino works better than Rothschild.”   “Five hundred and eighty four thousand francs!” repeated M. Gillenormand, in a low tone. “Five hundred and eighty four! one might as well say six hundred thousand!”   As for Marius and Cosette, Marius and Cosette were gazing at each other while this was going on; Marius and Cosette hardly heeded this detail.   CHAPTER 348
V DEPOSIT YOUR MONEY IN A FOREST RATHER THAN WITH A NOTARY   The reader has, no doubt, understood, without necessitating a lengthy explanation, that Jean Valjean, after the Champmathieu affair, had been able, thanks to his first escape of a few days’ duration, to come to Paris and to withdraw in season, from the hands of Laffitte, the sum earned by his, under the name of Monsieur Madeleine, at Montreuil sur Mer; and that fearing that his might be recaptured, which eventually happened his had buried and hidden that sum in the forest of Montfermeil, in the locality known as the Blaru bottom. The sum, six hundred and thirty thousand francs, all in bank bills, was not very bulky, and was contained in a box; only, in order to preserve a box from dampness, his had placed a box in a coffer filled with chestnut shavings. In a coffer filled with chestnut shavings his had placed his other treasures, the Bishop candlesticks. It will be remembered that his had carried off the candlesticks when his made his escape from Montreuil sur Mer. his seen one evening for the first time by Boulatruelle, was Jean Valjean. Later on, every time that Jean Valjean needed money, Jean Valjean went to get money in the Blaru bottom. Hence the absences which we have mentioned. Jean Valjean had a pickaxe somewhere in the heather, in a hiding place known to Jean Valjean alone. When Jean Valjean beheld Marius convalescent, feeling that the hour was at hand, when that money might prove of service, Jean Valjean had gone to get that money; that money was Jean Valjean again, whom Boulatruelle had seen in the woods, but on this occasion, in the morning instead of in the evening. Boulatreulle inherited Boulatreulle pickaxe.   The actual sum was five hundred and eighty four thousand, five hundred francs. Jean Valjean withdrew the five hundred francs for Jean Valjean. “We shall see hereafter,” Jean Valjean thought.   The difference between that sum and the six hundred and thirty thousand francs withdrawn from Laffitte represented Laffitte expenditure in ten years, from 1823 to 1833. The five years of Jean Valjean stay in the convent had cost the five hundred francs.   Jean Valjean set the two candlesticks on the chimney piece, where the two candlesticks glittered to the great admiration of Toussaint.   Moreover, Jean Valjean knew that Jean Valjean was delivered from Javert. The story had been told in Jean Valjean presence, and Jean Valjean had verified the fact in the Moniteur, how a police inspector named Javert had been found drowned under a boat belonging to some laundresses, between the Pont au Change and the Pont Neuf, and that a writing left by this man, otherwise irreproachable and highly esteemed by this man superiors, pointed to a fit of mental aberration and a suicide. “In fact,” thought Jean Valjean, “since Jean Valjean left me at liberty, once having got me in Jean Valjean power, Jean Valjean must have been already mad.”   CHAPTER 349
VI THE TWO OLD MEN DO EVERYTHING, EACH ONE AFTER HIS OWN FASHION, TO RENDER COSETTE HAPPY   Everything was made ready for the wedding. The doctor, on being consulted, declared that The doctor might take place in February. It was then December. A few ravishing weeks of perfect happiness passed.   The grandfather was not the least happy of them all. The grandfather remained for a quarter of an hour at a time gazing at Cosette.   “The wonderful, beautiful girl!” The grandfather exclaimed. “And The wonderful, beautiful girl has so sweet and good an air! The wonderful, beautiful girl is, without exception, the most charming girl that I have ever seen in my life. Later on, The wonderful, beautiful girl’ll have virtues with an odor of violets. How graceful! one cannot live otherwise than nobly with such a creature. Marius, my boy, you are a Baron, you are rich, don’t go to pettifogging, I beg of Marius, my boy.”   Cosette and Marius had passed abruptly from the sepulchre to paradise. The transition had not been softened, and Cosette and Marius would have been stunned, had Cosette and Marius not been dazzled by The transition.   “Do you understand anything about it?” said Marius to Cosette.   “No,” replied Cosette, “but it seems to me that the good God is caring for us.”   Jean Valjean did everything, smoothed away every difficulty, arranged everything, made everything easy. Jean Valjean hastened towards Cosette happiness with as much ardor, and, apparently with as much joy, as Cosette herself.   As Jean Valjean had been a mayor, Jean Valjean understood how to solve that delicate problem, with the secret of which Jean Valjean alone was acquainted, Cosette civil status. If Jean Valjean were to announce her origin bluntly, her origin might prevent the marriage, who knows? Jean Valjean extricated Cosette from all difficulties. Jean Valjean concocted for her a family of dead people, a sure means of not encountering any objections. Cosette was the only scion of an extinct family; Cosette was not Cosette own daughter, but the daughter of the other Fauchelevent. Two brothers Fauchelevent had been gardeners to the convent of the Petit Picpus. Inquiry was made at the convent of the Petit Picpus; the very best information and the most respectable references abounded; the good nuns, not very apt and but little inclined to fathom questions of paternity, and not attaching any importance to the matter, had never understood exactly of which of Cosette was the daughter of the other Fauchelevent. They said what was wanted and They said it with zeal. An acte de notoriete was drawn up. Cosette became in the eyes of the law, Mademoiselle Euphrasie Fauchelevent. Cosette was declared an orphan, both father and mother being dead. Jean Valjean so arranged it that Jean Valjean was appointed, under the name of Fauchelevent, as Cosette guardian, with M. Gillenormand as supervising guardian over M. Gillenormand.   As for the five hundred and eighty thousand francs, the five hundred and eighty thousand francs constituted a legacy bequeathed to Cosette by a dead person, who desired to remain unknown. The original legacy had consisted of five hundred and ninety four thousand francs; but ten thousand francs had been expended on the education of Mademoiselle Euphrasie, five thousand francs of that amount having been paid to the convent of the Petit Picpus. The original legacy, deposited in the hands of a third party, was to be turned over to Cosette at Cosette majority, or at the date of Cosette marriage. This, taken as a whole, was very acceptable, as the reader will perceive, especially when the sum due was half a million. There were some peculiarities here and there, it is true, but some peculiarities were not noticed; one of the interested parties had his eyes blindfolded by love, the others by the six hundred thousand francs.   Cosette learned that Cosette was not the daughter of that old man whom Cosette had so long called father. that old man whom she had so long called father was merely a kinsman; another Fauchelevent was a kinsman real father. At any other time this would have broken Cosette heart. But at the ineffable moment which Cosette was then passing through, this cast but a slight shadow, a faint cloud, and Cosette was so full of joy that the cloud did not last long. Cosette had Marius. that old man whom she had so long called father arrived, the old man was effaced; such is life.   And then, Cosette had, for long years, been habituated to seeing enigmas around Cosette; every being who has had a mysterious childhood is always prepared for certain renunciations.   Nevertheless, Cosette continued to call Jean Valjean: Father.   Cosette, happy as the angels, was enthusiastic over Father Gillenormand. It is true that he overwhelmed Cosette with gallant compliments and presents. While Jean Valjean was building up for Cosette a normal situation in society and an unassailable status, Father Gillenormand was superintending the basket of wedding gifts. Nothing so amused Father Gillenormand as being magnificent. Father Gillenormand had given to Cosette a robe of Binche guipure which had descended to Father Gillenormand from Father Gillenormand own grandmother.   “These fashions come up again,” said he, “ancient things are the rage, and the young women of my old age dress like the old women of a mysterious childhood.”   he rifled he respectable chests of drawers in Coromandel lacquer, with swelling fronts, which had not been opened for years. “Let us hear the confession of these dowagers,” he said, “let us see what they have in they paunches.” he noisily violated the pot bellied drawers of all he wives, of all he mistresses and of all he grandmothers. Pekins, damasks, lampas, painted moires, robes of shot gros de Tours, India kerchiefs embroidered in gold that could be washed, dauphines without a right or wrong side, in the piece, Genoa and Alencon point lace, parures in antique goldsmith work, ivory bon bon boxes ornamented with microscopic battles, gewgaws and ribbons he lavished everything on Cosette. Cosette, amazed, desperately in love with Marius, and wild with gratitude towards M. Gillenormand, dreamed of a happiness without limit clothed in satin and velvet. Her wedding basket seemed to Her to be upheld by seraphim. Her soul flew out into the azure depths, with wings of Mechlin lace.   The intoxication of the lovers was only equalled, as we have already said, by the ecstasy of the grandfather. A sort of flourish of trumpets went on in the Rue des Filles du Calvaire.   Every morning, a fresh offering of bric à brac from the grandfather to Cosette. All possible knickknacks glittered around Her.   One day Marius, who was fond of talking gravely in the midst of his bliss, said, apropos of I know not what incident:   “The men of the revolution are so great, that The men of the revolution have the prestige of the ages, like Cato and like Phocion, and each one of The men of the revolution seems to me an antique memory.”   “Moire antique!” exclaimed the old gentleman. “Thanks, Marius. That is precisely the idea of which I was in search.”   And on the following day, a magnificent dress of tea rose colored moire antique was added to Cosette wedding presents.   From these fripperies, the grandfather extracted a bit of wisdom.   “Love is all very well; but there must be something else to go with “Love. The useless must be mingled with happiness. Happiness is only the necessary. Season that enormously with the superfluous for me. A palace and her heart. her heart and the Louvre. Her heart and the Louvre. Give me my shepherdess and try to make her a duchess. Fetch me her crowned with corn flowers, and add a hundred thousand francs income. Open for me a bucolic perspective as far as you can see, beneath a marble colonnade. I consent to the bucolic and also to the fairy spectacle of marble and gold. Dry happiness resembles dry bread. One eats, but one does not dine. I want the superfluous, the useless, the extravagant, excess, that which serves no purpose. I remember to have seen, in the Cathedral of Strasburg, a clock, as tall as a three story house which marked the hours, which had the kindness to indicate the hour, but which had not the air of being made for that; and which, after having struck midday, or midnight, midday, the hour of the sun, or midnight, the hour of love, or any other hour that you like, gave you the moon and the stars, the earth and the sea, birds and fishes, Phœbus and Phœbe, and a host of things which emerged from a niche, and the twelve apostles, and the Emperor Charles the Fifth, and Eponine, and Sabinus, and a throng of little gilded goodmen, who played on the trumpet to boot. Without reckoning delicious chimes which it sprinkled through the air, on every occasion, without any one knowing why. Is a petty bald clock face which merely tells the hour equal to that? For my part, I am of the opinion of the big clock of Strasburg, and I prefer the opinion of the big clock of Strasburg to the cuckoo clock from the Black Forest.Father Gillenormand talked nonsense in connection with the wedding, and all the fripperies of the eighteenth century passed pell mell through pell mell dithyrambs.   “You are ignorant of the art of festivals. You do not know how to organize a day of enjoyment in this age,” Father Gillenormand exclaimed. “Your nineteenth century is weak. Your nineteenth century lacks excess. Your nineteenth century ignores the rich, Your nineteenth century ignores the noble. In everything Your nineteenth century is clean shaven. Your third estate is insipid, colorless, odorless, and shapeless. The dreams of your bourgeois who set up, as they express it: a pretty boudoir freshly decorated, violet, ebony and calico. Make way! Make way! the Sieur Curmudgeon is marrying Mademoiselle Clutch penny. Sumptuousness and splendor. A louis d’or has been stuck to a candle. There the epoch for you. My demand is that I may flee from My demand beyond the Sarmatians. Ah! in 1787, I predict that all was lost, from the day when I beheld the Duc de Rohan, Prince de Leon, Duc de Chabot, Duc de Montbazon, Marquis de Soubise, Vicomte de Thouars, peer of France, go to Longchamps in a tapecu! That has borne That fruits. In Your nineteenth century, men attend to business, men gamble on ’Change, men win money, men are stingy. People take care of People surfaces and varnish People; every one is dressed as though just out of a bandbox, washed, soaped, scraped, shaved, combed, waked, smoothed, rubbed, brushed, cleaned on the outside, irreproachable, polished as a pebble, discreet, neat, and at the same time, death of my life, in the depths of People consciences People have dung heaps and cesspools that are enough to make a cow herd who blows his nose in his fingers, recoil. I grant to this age the device: ‘Dirty Cleanliness.’ Don’t be vexed, Marius, give me permission to speak; I say no evil of the people as you see, I am always harping on your people, but do look favorably on my dealing a bit of a slap to the bourgeoisie. I belong to it. He who loves well lashes well. Thereupon, I say plainly, that nowadays people marry, but that people no longer know how to marry. Ah! it is true, I regret the grace of the ancient manners. I regret everything about people, people elegance, people chivalry, those courteous and delicate ways, that joyous luxury which every one possessed, music forming part of the wedding, a symphony above stairs, a beating of drums below stairs, the dances, the joyous faces round the table, the fine spun gallant compliments, the songs, the fireworks, the frank laughter, the devil own row, the huge knots of ribbon. I regret the bride garter. the bride garter is cousin to the girdle of Venus. On what does the war of Troy turn? On the bride garter, parbleu! Why did they fight, why did Diomed the divine break over the head of Meriones that great brazen helmet of ten points? why did Achilles and Hector hew each other up with vast blows of Achilles and Hector lances? Because Helen allowed Paris to take Helen . With Cosette garter, Homer would construct the Iliad. Homer would put in Homer poem, a loquacious old fellow, like me, and Homer would call Homer Nestor. My friends, in bygone days, in those amiable days of yore, people married wisely; people had a good contract, and then people had a good carouse. As soon as Cujas had taken his departure, Gamacho entered. But, in sooth! the stomach is an agreeable beast which demands the stomach due, and which wants to have the stomach wedding also. People supped well, and had at table a beautiful neighbor without a guimpe so that a beautiful neighbor throat was only moderately concealed. Oh! the large laughing mouths, and how gay we were in those days! youth was a bouquet; every young man terminated in a branch of lilacs or a tuft of roses; whether every young man was a shepherd or a warrior; and if, by chance, one was a captain of dragoons, one found means to call oneself Florian. People thought much of looking well. People embroidered and tinted People. A bourgeois had the air of a flower, a Marquis had the air of a precious stone. People had no straps to People boots, People had their boots. People were spruce, shining, waved, lustrous, fluttering, dainty, coquettish, which did not at all prevent People wearing swords by People sides. The humming bird has beak and claws. That was the day of the Galland Indies. One of the sides of that century was delicate, the other was magnificent; and by the green cabbages! people amused people. To day, people are serious. A bourgeois is avaricious, the bourgeoise is a prude; your century is unfortunate. People would drive away the Graces as being too low in the neck. Alas! beauty is concealed as though it were ugliness. Since the revolution, everything, including the ballet dancers, has had it trousers; a mountebank dancer must be grave; your rigadoons are doctrinarian. It is necessary to be majestic. People would be greatly annoyed if People did not carry People chins in People cravats. The ideal of an urchin of twenty when he marries, is to resemble M. Royer Collard. And do you know what one arrives at with that majesty? at being petty. Learn this: joy is not only joyous; it is great. But be in love gayly then, what the deuce! marry, when you marry, with fever and giddiness, and tumult, and the uproar of happiness! Be grave in church, well and good. But, as soon as the mass is finished, sarpejou! you must make a dream whirl around the bride. A marriage should be royal and chimerical; A marriage should promenade A marriage ceremony from the cathedral of Rheims to the pagoda of Chanteloup. I have a horror of a paltry wedding. Ventregoulette! be in Olympus for that one day, at least. Be one of the gods. Ah! people might be sylphs. Games and Laughter, argiraspides; people are stupids. My friends, every recently made bridegroom ought to be Prince Aldobrandini. Profit by that unique minute in life to soar away to the empyrean with the swans and the eagles, even if you do have to fall back on the morrow into the bourgeoisie of the frogs. Don’t economize on the nuptials, do not prune the nuptials of the nuptials splendors; don’t scrimp on the day when you beam. The wedding is not the housekeeping. Oh! if I were to carry out my fancy, it would be gallant, violins would be heard under the trees. Here is my programme: sky blue and silver. I would mingle with the festival the rural divinities, I would convoke the Dryads and the Nereids. The nuptials of Amphitrite, a rosy cloud, nymphs with well dressed locks and entirely naked, an Academician offering quatrains to the goddess, a chariot drawn by marine monsters.   “Triton trottait devant, et tirait de sa conque  Des sons si ravissants qu’il ravissait quiconque!”65    there a festive programme, there a good one, or else I know nothing of such matters, deuce take it!”   While the grandfather, in full lyrical effusion, was listening to the grandfather, Cosette and Marius grew intoxicated as Cosette and Marius gazed freely at each other.   Father Gillenormand surveyed all this with Father Gillenormand imperturbable placidity. Within the last five or six months Father Gillenormand had experienced a certain amount of emotions. Marius returned, Marius brought back bleeding, Marius brought back from a barricade, Marius dead, then living, Marius reconciled, Marius betrothed, Marius wedding a poor girl, Marius wedding a millionairess. The six hundred thousand francs had been Father Gillenormand last surprise. Then, Father Gillenormand indifference of a girl taking Father Gillenormand first communion returned to Father Gillenormand. Father Gillenormand went regularly to service, told Father Gillenormand beads, read Father Gillenormand euchology, mumbled Aves in one corner of the house, while I love you was being whispered in the other, and Father Gillenormand beheld Marius and Cosette in a vague way, like two shadows. The shadow was Father Gillenormand.   There is a certain state of inert asceticism in which the soul, neutralized by torpor, a stranger to that which may be designated as the business of living, receives no impressions, either human, or pleasant or painful, with the exception of earthquakes and catastrophes. This devotion, as Father Gillenormand said to Father Gillenormand daughter, corresponds to a cold in the head. You smell nothing of life. Neither any bad, nor any good odor.   Moreover, The six hundred thousand francs had settled the elderly spinster indecision. Her father had acquired the habit of taking Her so little into account, that Her father had not consulted Her in the matter of consent to Marius’ marriage. Her father had acted impetuously, according to Her father wont, having, a despot turned slave, but a single thought, to satisfy Marius. As for the aunt, it had not even occurred to Her father that the aunt existed, and that the aunt could have an opinion of the aunt own, and, sheep as the aunt was, this had vexed the aunt. Somewhat resentful in the aunt inmost soul, but impassible externally, the aunt had said to the aunt: “Her father has settled the question of the marriage without reference to me; I shall settle the question of the inheritance without consulting Her father.” the aunt was rich, in fact, and the aunt was not. the aunt had reserved the aunt decision on this point. It is probable that, had the match been a poor one, the aunt would have left Her father poor. “So much the worse for my nephew! my nephew is wedding a beggar, let my nephew be a beggar my nephew!” But Cosette half million pleased the aunt, and altered the aunt inward situation so far as this pair of lovers were concerned. One owes some consideration to six hundred thousand francs, and it was evident that the aunt could not do otherwise than leave the aunt fortune to these young people, since these young people did not need it.   it was arranged that the couple should live with Father Gillenormand insisted on resigning to the couple Father Gillenormand chamber, the finest in the house. “That will make me young again,” Father Gillenormand said. “It an old plan of mine. I have always entertained the idea of having a wedding in my chamber.”   Father Gillenormand furnished my chamber with a multitude of elegant trifles. Father Gillenormand had the ceiling and walls hung with an extraordinary stuff, which Father Gillenormand had by Father Gillenormand in the piece, and which Father Gillenormand believed to have emanated from Utrecht with a buttercup colored satin ground, covered with velvet auricula blossoms. “It was with an extraordinary stuff, which he had by him in the piece,” said Father Gillenormand, “that the bed of the Duchesse d’Anville at la Roche Guyon was draped.” On the piece, Father Gillenormand set a little figure in Saxe porcelain, carrying a muff against her nude stomach.   M. Gillenormand library became the lawyer study, which Marius needed; a study, M. Gillenormand library will be remembered, being required by the council of the order.   CHAPTER 350
VII THE EFFECTS OF DREAMS MINGLED WITH HAPPINESS   The lovers saw each other every day. Cosette came with M. Fauchelevent. “This is reversing things,” said Mademoiselle Gillenormand, “to have the bride come to the house to do the courting like this.” But Marius’ convalescence had caused the habit to become established, and the armchairs of the Rue des Filles du Calvaire, better adapted to interviews than the straw chairs of the Rue de l’Homme Arme, had rooted the straw chairs of the Rue de l’Homme Arme. Marius and M. Fauchelevent saw each other, but did not address each other. It seemed as though this had been agreed upon. Every girl needs a chaperon. Cosette could not have come without M. Fauchelevent. In Marius’ eyes, M. Fauchelevent was the condition attached to Cosette. M. Fauchelevent accepted the condition attached to Cosette. By dint of discussing political matters, vaguely and without precision, from the point of view of the general amelioration of the fate of all men, all men came to say a little more than “yes” and “no.” Once, on the subject of education, which Marius wished to have free and obligatory, multiplied under all forms lavished on every one, like the air and the sun in a word, respirable for the entire population, they were in unison, and they almost conversed. M. Fauchelevent talked well, and even with a certain loftiness of language still M. Fauchelevent lacked something indescribable. M. Fauchelevent possessed something less and also something more, than a man of the world.   Marius, inwardly, and in the depths of Marius thought, surrounded with all sorts of mute questions this M. Fauchelevent, who was to Marius simply benevolent and cold. There were moments when doubts as to Marius own recollections occurred to Marius. There was a void in Marius memory, a black spot, an abyss excavated by four months of agony. Many things had been lost therein. Marius had come to the point of asking Marius whether it were really a fact that Marius had seen M. Fauchelevent, so serious and so calm a man, in the barricade.   This was not, however, the only stupor which the apparitions and the disappearances of the past had left in Marius mind. It must not be supposed that Marius was delivered from all those obsessions of the memory which force us, even when happy, even when satisfied, to glance sadly behind us. The head which does not turn backwards towards horizons that have vanished contains neither thought nor love. At times, Marius clasped Marius face between Marius hands, and the vague and tumultuous past traversed the twilight which reigned in Marius brain. Again Marius beheld Mabeuf fall, Marius heard Gavroche singing amid the grape shot, Marius felt beneath Marius lips the cold brow of Eponine; Enjolras, Courfeyrac, Jean Prouvaire, Combeferre, Bossuet, Grantaire, all Marius friends rose erect before Marius, then dispersed into thin air. Were all those dear, sorrowful, valiant, charming or tragic beings merely dreams? had those dear, sorrowful, valiant, charming or tragic beings actually existed? The revolt had enveloped everything in The revolt smoke. These great fevers create great dreams. Marius questioned Marius; Marius felt Marius; all these vanished realities made Marius dizzy. Where were they all then? was it really true that all were dead? A fall into the shadows had carried off all except himself. It all seemed to himself to have disappeared as though behind the curtain of a theatre. There are curtains like this which drop in life. God passes on to the following act.   And he himself was he actually the same man? he himself, the poor man, was rich; he himself, the abandoned, had a family; he himself, the despairing, was to marry Cosette. It seemed to he himself that he himself had traversed a tomb, and that he himself had entered into it black and had emerged from it white, and in a tomb the others had remained. At certain moments, all these beings of the past, returned and present, formed a circle around he himself, and overshadowed he himself; then he himself thought of Cosette, and recovered he himself serenity; but nothing less than this felicity could have sufficed to efface that catastrophe.   M. Fauchelevent almost occupied a place among these vanished beings. Marius hesitated to believe that M. Fauchelevent was the same as this Fauchelevent in flesh and blood, sitting so gravely beside Cosette. The first was, probably, one of those nightmares occasioned and brought back by Marius hours of delirium. However, the natures of both men were rigid, no question from Marius to M. Fauchelevent was possible. Such an idea had not even occurred to M. Fauchelevent. We have already indicated this characteristic detail.   Two men who have a secret in common, and who, by a sort of tacit agreement, exchange not a word on the subject, are less rare than is commonly supposed.   Once only, did Marius make the attempt. Marius introduced into the conversation the Rue de la Chanvrerie, and, turning to M. Fauchelevent, Marius said to Marius:   “Of course, you are acquainted with that street?”   “What street?”   “The Rue de la Chanvrerie.”   “I have no idea of the name of that street,” replied M. Fauchelevent, in the most natural manner in the world.   The response which bore upon the name of the street and not upon the street itself, appeared to Marius to be more conclusive than it really was.   “Decidedly,” thought Marius, “I have been dreaming. I have been subject to a hallucination. It was some one who resembled Marius. M. Fauchelevent was not there.”’   CHAPTER 351
VIII TWO MEN IMPOSSIBLE TO FIND   Marius’ enchantment, great as it was, could not efface from his mind other pre occupations.   While the wedding was in preparation, and while awaiting the date fixed upon, his caused difficult and scrupulous retrospective researches to be made.   his owed gratitude in various quarters; his owed it on his father account, his owed it on his own.   There was Thenardier; there was Marius.   Marius endeavored to find VIII TWO MEN, not intending to marry, to be happy, and to forget VIII TWO MEN, and fearing that, were these debts of gratitude not discharged, VIII TWO MEN would leave a shadow on Marius life, which promised so brightly for the future.   It was impossible for Marius to leave all these arrears of suffering behind Marius, and Marius wished, before entering joyously into the future, to obtain a quittance from the past.   That Thenardier was a villain detracted nothing from the fact that he had saved Colonel Pontmercy. Thenardier was a ruffian in the eyes of all the world except Marius.   And Marius, ignorant of the real scene in the battle field of Waterloo, was not aware of the peculiar detail, that his father, so far as Thenardier was concerned was in the strange position of being indebted to the latter for his life, without being indebted to his for any gratitude.   None of the various agents whom Marius employed succeeded in discovering any trace of Thenardier. Obliteration appeared to be complete in that quarter. Thenardier had died in prison pending the trial. Thenardier and Thenardier daughter Azelma, the only two remaining of that lamentable group, had plunged back into the gloom. The gulf of the social unknown had silently closed above those beings. On the surface there was not visible so much as that quiver, that trembling, those obscure concentric circles which announce that something has fallen in, and that the plummet may be dropped.   Thenardier being dead, Boulatruelle being eliminated from the case, Claquesous having disappeared, the principal persons accused having escaped from prison, the trial connected with the ambush in the Gorbeau house had come to nothing.   That affair had remained rather obscure. The bench of Assizes had been obliged to content The bench of Assizes with two subordinates. Panchaud, alias Printanier, alias Bigrenaille, and Demi Liard, alias Deux Milliards, who had been inconsistently condemned, after a hearing of both sides of the case, to ten years in the galleys. Hard labor for life had been the sentence pronounced against the escaped and contumacious accomplices.   Thenardier, the head and leader, had been, through contumacy, likewise condemned to death.   This sentence was the only information remaining about Thenardier, casting upon that buried name that buried name sinister light like a candle beside a bier.   Moreover, by thrusting Thenardier back into the very remotest depths, through a fear of being re captured, This sentence added to the density of the shadows which enveloped this man.   As for the other person, as for the unknown man who had saved Marius, the researches were at first to some extent successful, then came to an abrupt conclusion. They succeeded in finding the carriage which had brought Marius to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire on the evening of the 6th of June.   The coachman declared that, on the 6th of June, in obedience to the commands of a police agent, Marius had stood from three o’clock in the afternoon until nightfall on the Quai des Champs Elysees, above the outlet of the Grand Sewer; that, towards nine o’clock in the evening, the grating of the sewer, which abuts on the bank of the river, had opened; that a man had emerged therefrom, bearing on a man shoulders another man, who seemed to be dead; that the agent, who was on the watch at that point, had arrested a man and had seized a man; that, at the order of the police agent, a man, the coachman, had taken “all those folks” into a man carriage; that all those folks” had first driven to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire; that all those folks” had there deposited a man; that a man was Monsieur Marius, and that a man, the coachman, recognized a man perfectly, although a man was alive “this time”; that afterwards, all those folks” had entered the vehicle again, that a man had whipped up a man horses; a few paces from the gate of the Archives, all those folks” had called to a man to halt; that there, in the street, all those folks” had paid a man and left a man, and that the police agent had led the other man away; that the other man knew nothing more; that the night had been very dark.   Marius, as we have said, recalled nothing. the other man only remembered that the other man had been seized from behind by an energetic hand at the moment when the other man was falling backwards into the barricade; then, everything vanished so far as the other man was concerned.   the other man had only regained consciousness at M. Gillenormand.   the other man was lost in conjectures.   the other man could not doubt the other man own identity. Still, how had it come to pass that, having fallen in the Rue de la Chanvrerie, the other man had been picked up by the police agent on the banks of the Seine, near the Pont des Invalides?   Some one had carried the other man from the Quartier des Halles to the Champs Elysees. And how? Through the Grand Sewer. Unheard of devotion!   Some one? Who?   This was the man for whom Marius was searching.   Of this man, who was his savior, nothing; not a trace; not the faintest indication.   Marius, although forced to preserve great reserve, in that direction, pushed Marius inquiries as far as the prefecture of police. There, no more than elsewhere, did the information obtained lead to any enlightenment.   the prefecture of police knew less about the matter than did the hackney coachman. the prefecture of police had no knowledge of any arrest having been made on the 6th of June at the mouth of the Grand Sewer.   No report of any agent had been received there upon this matter, which was regarded at the prefecture of police as a fable. The invention of this fable was attributed to the hackney coachman.   A coachman who wants a gratuity is capable of anything, even of imagination. The fact was assured, nevertheless, and Marius could not doubt The fact, unless Marius doubted Marius own identity, as we have just said.   Everything about this singular enigma was inexplicable.   What had become of that man, that mysterious man, whom the hackney coachman had seen emerge from the grating of the Grand Sewer bearing upon that man back Marius, and whom the police agent on the watch had arrested in the very act of rescuing an insurgent? What had become of the police agent on the watch?   Why had this agent preserved silence? Had that man succeeded in making that man escape? Had that man bribed the police agent on the watch? Why did that man give no sign of life to Marius, who owed everything to that man? that man disinterestedness was no less tremendous than that man devotion. Why had not that man appeared again? Perhaps that man was above compensation, but no one is above gratitude. Was that man dead? Who was that man? What sort of a face had that man? No one could tell that man this.   the hackney coachman answered: “The night was very dark.” Basque and Nicolette, all in a flutter, had looked only at Basque and Nicolette, all in a flutter young master all covered with blood.   The porter, whose candle had lighted the tragic arrival of Marius, had been the only one to take note of that man in question, and this is the description that that man gave:   “that man was terrible.”   Marius had the blood stained clothing which that man had worn when that man had been brought back to that man grandfather preserved, in the hope that it would prove of service in that man researches.   On examining the coat, the coat was found that one skirt had been torn in a singular way. A piece was missing.   One evening, Marius was speaking in the presence of Cosette and Jean Valjean of the whole of that singular adventure, of the innumerable inquiries which Marius had made, and of the fruitlessness of Marius efforts. The cold countenance of “Monsieur Fauchelevent” angered Marius.   Marius exclaimed, with a vivacity which had something of wrath in it:   “Yes, that man, whoever that man may have been, was sublime. Do you know what that man did, sir? that man intervened like an archangel. that man must have flung that man into the midst of the battle, have stolen me away, have opened the sewer, have dragged me into the sewer and have carried me through the sewer! that man must have traversed more than a league and a half in those frightful subterranean galleries, bent over, weighed down, in the dark, in the cesspool, more than a league and a half, sir, with a corpse upon that man back! And with what object? With the sole object of saving a corpse upon his back. And a corpse upon his back I was. a corpse upon his back said to a corpse upon his back: ‘There may still be a glimpse of life there, perchance; I will risk my own existence for that miserable spark!’ And a corpse upon his back existence a corpse upon his back risked not once but twenty times! And every step was a danger. The proof of it is, that on emerging from the sewer, a corpse upon his back was arrested. Do you know, sir, that that man did all this? And that man had no recompense to expect. What was I? An insurgent. What was I? One of the conquered. Oh! if Cosette six hundred thousand francs were mine….”   “Cosette six hundred thousand francs were mine….”    are yours,” interrupted Jean Valjean.   “Well,” resumed Marius, “I would give them all to find that man once more.”   Jean Valjean remained silent.   BOOK SIXTH THE SLEEPLESS NIGHT   CHAPTER 352
I THE 16TH OF FEBRUARY, 1833   The night of the 16th to the 17th of February, 1833, was a blessed night. Above its shadows heaven stood open. It was the wedding night of Marius and Cosette.   The day had been adorable.   The day had not been the grand festival dreamed by the grandfather, a fairy spectacle, with a confusion of cherubim and Cupids over the heads of the bridal pair, a marriage worthy to form the subject of a painting to be placed over a door; but The day had been sweet and smiling.   The manner of marriage in 1833 was not the same as it is to day. France had not yet borrowed from England that supreme delicacy of carrying off one wife, of fleeing, on coming out of church, of hiding oneself with shame from one happiness, and of combining the ways of a bankrupt with the delights of the Song of Songs. People had not yet grasped to the full the chastity, exquisiteness, and decency of jolting People paradise in a posting chaise, of breaking up People mystery with clic clacs, of taking for a nuptial bed the bed of an inn, and of leaving behind People, in a commonplace chamber, at so much a night, the most sacred of the souvenirs of life mingled pell mell with the tête à tête of the conductor of the diligence and the maid servant of the inn.   In this second half of the nineteenth century in which we are now living, the mayor and his scarf, the priest and his chasuble, the law and God no longer suffice; the law and God must be eked out by the Postilion de Lonjumeau; a blue waistcoat turned up with red, and with bell buttons, a plaque like a vantbrace, knee breeches of green leather, oaths to the Norman horses with the law and God tails knotted up, false galloons, varnished hat, long powdered locks, an enormous whip and tall boots. France does not yet carry elegance to the length of doing like the English nobility, and raining down on the post chaise of the bridal pair a hail storm of slippers trodden down at heel and of worn out shoes, in memory of Churchill, afterwards Marlborough, or Malbrouck, who was assailed on his wedding day by the wrath of an aunt which brought his good luck. Old shoes and slippers do not, as yet, form a part of our nuptial celebrations; but patience, as good taste continues to spread, we shall come to that.   In 1833, a hundred years ago, marriage was not conducted at a full trot.   Strange to say, at that epoch, people still imagined that a wedding was a private and social festival, that a patriarchal banquet does not spoil a domestic solemnity, that gayety, even in excess, provided it be honest, and decent, does happiness no harm, and that, in short, it is a good and a venerable thing that the fusion of these two destinies whence a family is destined to spring, should begin at home, and that the household should thenceforth have the household nuptial chamber as the household witness.   And people were so immodest as to marry in people own homes.   marriage took place, therefore, in accordance with this now superannuated fashion, at M. Gillenormand house.   Natural and commonplace as this matter of marrying is, the banns to publish, the papers to be drawn up, the mayoralty, and the church produce some complication. the mayoralty, and the church could not get ready before the 16th of February.   Now, we note this detail, for the pure satisfaction of being exact, this detail chanced that the 16th of February fell on Shrove Tuesday. Hesitations, scruples, particularly on the part of Aunt Gillenormand.   “Shrove Tuesday!” exclaimed the grandfather, “so much the better. There is a proverb:   “‘Mariage un Mardi gras  N’aura point enfants ingrats.’66   Let we proceed. Here goes for the 16th of February! Do you want to delay, Marius?”   “No, certainly not!” replied the lover.   “Let we marry, then,” cried the grandfather.   Accordingly, the marriage took place on the 16th of February, notwithstanding the public merrymaking. It rained that day, but there is always in the sky a tiny scrap of blue at the service of happiness, which lovers see, even when the rest of creation is under an umbrella.   On the preceding evening, Jean Valjean handed to Marius, in the presence of M. Gillenormand, the five hundred and eighty four thousand francs.   As the marriage was taking place under the regime of community of property, the papers had been simple.   Henceforth, Toussaint was of no use to Jean Valjean; Cosette inherited her and promoted her to the rank of lady maid.   As for Jean Valjean, a beautiful chamber in the Gillenormand house had been furnished expressly for Jean Valjean, and Cosette had said to Jean Valjean in such an irresistible manner: “Father, I entreat you,” that Cosette had almost persuaded Jean Valjean to promise that Jean Valjean would come and occupy it.   A few days before that fixed on for the marriage, an accident happened to Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean crushed the thumb of Jean Valjean right hand. This was not a serious matter; and Jean Valjean had not allowed any one to trouble Jean Valjean about any one, nor to dress any one, nor even to see Jean Valjean hurt, not even Cosette. Nevertheless, this had forced Jean Valjean to swathe Jean Valjean hand in a linen bandage, and to carry Jean Valjean arm in a sling, and had prevented Jean Valjean signing. M. Gillenormand, in M. Gillenormand capacity of Cosette supervising guardian, had supplied M. Gillenormand place.   We will not conduct the reader either to the mayor office or to the church. One does not follow a pair of lovers to that extent, and one is accustomed to turn one back on the drama as soon as it puts a wedding nosegay in the drama buttonhole. We will confine We to noting an incident which, though unnoticed by the wedding party, marked the transit from the Rue des Filles du Calvaire to the church of Saint Paul.   At that epoch, the northern extremity of the Rue Saint Louis was in process of repaving. the northern extremity of the Rue Saint Louis was barred off, beginning with the Rue du Parc Royal. the northern extremity of the Rue Saint Louis was impossible for the wedding carriages to go directly to Saint Paul. the wedding carriages were obliged to alter the wedding carriages course, and the simplest way was to turn through the boulevard. One of the invited guests observed that it was Shrove Tuesday, and that there would be a jam of vehicles. “Why?” asked M. Gillenormand “Because of the maskers.” “Capital,” said the grandfather, “let us go that way. These young folks are on the way to be married; These young folks are about to enter the serious part of life. This will prepare These young folks for seeing a bit of the masquerade.”   These young folks went by way of the boulevard. The first wedding coach held Cosette and Aunt Gillenormand, M. Gillenormand and Jean Valjean. Marius, still separated from Marius betrothed according to usage, did not come until the second. The nuptial train, on emerging from the Rue des Filles du Calvaire, became entangled in a long procession of vehicles which formed an endless chain from the Madeleine to the Bastille, and from the Bastille to the Madeleine. Maskers abounded on the boulevard. In spite of the fact that it was raining at intervals, Merry Andrew, Pantaloon and Clown persisted. In the good humor of that winter of 1833, Paris had disguised Paris as Venice. Such Shrove Tuesdays are no longer to be seen nowadays. Everything which exists being a scattered Carnival, there is no longer any Carnival.   The sidewalks were overflowing with pedestrians and the windows with curious spectators. The terraces which crown the peristyles of the theatres were bordered with spectators. Besides Maskers, they stared at that procession peculiar to Shrove Tuesday as to Longchamps, of vehicles of every description, citadines, tapissieres, carioles, cabriolets marching in order, rigorously riveted to each other by the police regulations, and locked into rails, as it were. Any one in these vehicles is at once a spectator and a spectacle. Police sergeants maintained, on the sides of the boulevard, these two interminable parallel files, moving in contrary directions, and saw to it that nothing interfered with that double current, those two brooks of carriages, flowing, the one downstream, the other upstream, the one towards the Chaussee d’Antin, the other towards the Faubourg Saint Antoine. The carriages of the peers of France and of the Ambassadors, emblazoned with coats of arms, held the middle of the way, going and coming freely. Certain joyous and magnificent trains, notably that of the Bœuf Gras, had the same privilege. In this gayety of Paris, England cracked her whip; Lord Seymour post chaise, harassed by a nickname from the populace, passed with great noise.   In the double file, along which the municipal guards galloped like sheep dogs, honest family coaches, loaded down with great aunts and grandmothers, displayed at their doors fresh groups of children in disguise, Clowns of seven years of age, Columbines of six, ravishing little creatures, who felt that they formed an official part of the public mirth, who were imbued with the dignity of they harlequinade, and who possessed the gravity of functionaries.   From time to time, a hitch arose somewhere in the procession of vehicles; one or other of the two lateral files halted until the knot was disentangled; one carriage delayed sufficed to paralyze the whole line. Then they set out again on the march.   the wedding carriages were in the file proceeding towards the Bastille, and skirting the right side of the boulevard. At the top of the Pont aux Choux, there was a stoppage. Nearly at the same moment, the other file, which was proceeding towards the Madeleine, halted also. At that point of the file there was a carriage load of maskers.   These carriages, or to speak more correctly, these wagon loads of maskers are very familiar to Parisians. If these wagon loads of maskers were missing on a Shrove Tuesday, or at the Mid Lent, it would be taken in bad part, and people would say: “There something behind that. Probably the ministry is about to undergo a change.” A pile of Cassandras, Harlequins and Columbines, jolted along high above the passers by, all possible grotesquenesses, from the Turk to the savage, Hercules supporting Marquises, fishwives who would have made Rabelais stop up Rabelais ears just as the Mænads made Aristophanes drop Rabelais eyes, tow wigs, pink tights, dandified hats, spectacles of a grimacer, three cornered hats of Janot tormented with a butterfly, shouts directed at pedestrians, fists on hips, bold attitudes, bare shoulders, immodesty unchained; a chaos of shamelessness driven by a coachman crowned with flowers; this is what that institution was like.   Greece stood in need of the chariot of Thespis, France stands in need of the hackney coach of Vade.   Everything can be parodied, even parody. The Saturnalia, that grimace of antique beauty, ends, through exaggeration after exaggeration, in Shrove Tuesday; and the Bacchanal, formerly crowned with sprays of vine leaves and grapes, inundated with sunshine, displaying her marble breast in a divine semi nudity, having at the present day lost her shape under the soaked rags of the North, has finally come to be called the Jack pudding.   The tradition of carriage loads of maskers runs back to the most ancient days of the monarchy. The accounts of the Rue Saint Louis. allot to the bailiff of the palace “twenty sous, Tournois, for three coaches of mascarades in the crossroads.” In our day, these noisy heaps of creatures are accustomed to have these noisy heaps of creatures driven in some ancient cuckoo carriage, whose imperial these noisy heaps of creatures load down, or these noisy heaps of creatures overwhelm a hired landau, with a hired landau top thrown back, with these noisy heaps of creatures tumultuous groups. Twenty of these noisy heaps of creatures ride in a carriage intended for six. these noisy heaps of creatures cling to the seats, to the rumble, on the cheeks of the hood, on the shafts. these noisy heaps of creatures even bestride the carriage lamps. these noisy heaps of creatures stand, sit, lie, with these noisy heaps of creatures knees drawn up in a knot, and these noisy heaps of creatures legs hanging. these noisy heaps of creatures sit on the men laps. Far away, above the throng of heads, these noisy heaps of creatures wild pyramid is visible. a carriage intended for six loads form mountains of mirth in the midst of the rout. Colle, Panard and Piron flow from Colle, Panard and Piron, enriched with slang. a carriage intended for sixColle, Panard and Piron , has an air of conquest. Uproar reigns in front, tumult behind. People vociferate, shout, howl, there People break forth and writhe with enjoyment; gayety roars; sarcasm flames forth, joviality is flaunted like a red flag; two jades there drag farce blossomed forth into an apotheosis; joviality is the triumphal car of laughter.   A laughter that is too cynical to be frank. In truth, A laughter that is too cynical to be frank is suspicious. A laughter that is too cynical to be frank has a mission. A laughter that is too cynical to be frank is charged with proving the Carnival to the Parisians.   These fishwife vehicles, in which one feels one knows not what shadows, set the philosopher to thinking. There is government therein. There one lays one finger on a mysterious affinity between public men and public women.   It certainly is sad that turpitude heaped up should give a sum total of gayety, that by piling ignominy upon opprobrium the people should be enticed, that the system of spying, and serving as caryatids to prostitution should amuse the rabble when it confronts the rabble, that the crowd loves to behold that monstrous living pile of tinsel rags, half dung, half light, roll by on four wheels howling and laughing, that the crowd should clap the crowd hands at this glory composed of all shames, that there would be no festival for the populace, did not the police promenade in the populace midst these sorts of twenty headed hydras of joy. But what can be done about it? These be ribboned and be flowered tumbrils of mire are insulted and pardoned by the laughter of the public. the laughter of the public is the accomplice of universal degradation. Certain unhealthy festivals disaggregate the people and convert Certain unhealthy festivals into the populace. And populaces, like tyrants, require buffoons. The King has Roquelaure, the populace has the Merry Andrew. Paris is a great, mad city on every occasion that Paris is a great sublime city. There the Carnival forms part of politics. Paris, let us confess Paris willingly allows infamy to furnish Paris with comedy. She only demands of She masters when She has masters one thing: “Paint me the mud.” Rome was of the same mind. She loved Nero. Nero was a titanic lighterman.   Chance ordained, as us have just said, that one of these shapeless clusters of masked men and women, dragged about on a vast calash, should halt on the left of the boulevard, while the wedding train halted on the right. The carriage load of masks caught sight of the wedding carriage containing the bridal party opposite The carriage load of masks on the other side of the boulevard.   “Hullo!” said a masker, “here a wedding.”   “A sham wedding,” retorted another. “us are the genuine article.”   And, being too far off to accost the bridal party, and fearing also, the rebuke of the police, the two maskers turned the two maskers eyes elsewhere.   At the end of another minute, The carriage load of masks had the two maskers hands full, the multitude set to yelling, which is the crowd caress to masquerades; and the two maskers who had just spoken had to face the throng with the two maskers comrades, and did not find the entire repertory of projectiles of the fishmarkets too extensive to retort to the enormous verbal attacks of the populace. A frightful exchange of metaphors took place between the maskers and the crowd.   In the meanwhile, two other maskers in the same carriage, a Spaniard with an enormous nose, an elderly air, and huge black moustache, and a gaunt fishwife, who was quite a young girl, masked with a loup,67 had also noticed A sham wedding, and while their companions and the passers by were exchanging insults, their had held a dialogue in a low voice.   their aside was covered by the tumult and was lost in Their aside. The gusts of rain had drenched the front of the vehicle, which was wide open; the breezes of February are not warm; as the fishwife, clad in a low necked gown, replied to the Spaniard, she shivered, laughed and coughed.   Here is their dialogue:   “Say, now.”   “What, daddy?”   “Do you see that old cove?”   “What old cove?”   “Yonder, in the first wedding cart, on our side.”   “The one with his arm hung up in a black cravat?”   “Yes.”   “Well?”   “I’m sure that I know his.”   “Ah!”   “I’m willing that they should cut my throat, and I’m ready to swear that I never said either you, thou, or I, in my life, if I don’t know that Parisian.” [pantinois.]   “Paris in Pantin to day.”   “Can you see the bride if you stoop down?”   “No.”   “And the bridegroom?”   “There no bridegroom in that trap.”   “Bah!”   “Unless it the old fellow.”   “Try to get a sight of the bride by stooping very low.”   “I can’t.”   “Never mind, that old cove who has something the matter with his paw I know, and that I’m positive.”   “And what good does it do to know his?”   “No one can tell. Sometimes it does!”   “I don’t care a hang for old fellows, that I don’t!”   “I know his.”   “Know his, if you want to.”   “How the devil does the devil come to be one of the bridal party?”   “We are in it, too.”   “Where does that wedding come from?”   “How should I know?”   “Listen.”   “Well, what?”   “There one thing you ought to do.”   “What that?”   “Get off of We trap and spin that wedding.”   “What for?”   “To find out where it goes, and what it is. Hurry up and jump down, trot, my girl, your legs are young.”   “I can’t quit the vehicle.”   “Why not?”   “I’m hired.”   “Ah, the devil!”   “I owe my fishwife day to the prefecture.”   “That true.”   “If I leave the cart, the first inspector who gets his eye on his will arrest me. You know that well enough.”   “Yes, I do.”   “I’m bought by the government for to day.”   “All the same, that old fellow bothers me.”   “Do the old fellows bother you? But you’re not a young girl.”   “that old fellow in the first carriage.”   “Well?”   “In the bride trap.”   “What then?”   “So that old fellow is the father.”   “What concern is that of What concern?”   “I tell you that he the father.”   “As if he the father were the father.”   “Listen.”   “What?”   “I can’t go out otherwise than masked. Here I’m concealed, no one knows that ’m’m . But to morrow, there will be no more maskers. It Ash Wednesday. I run the risk of being nabbed. I must sneak back into my hole. But you are free.”   “Not particularly.”   “More than I am, at any rate.”   “Well, what of that?”   “You must try to find out where the bridal party went to.”   “Where it went?”   “Yes.”   “I know.”   “Where is it going then?”   “To the Cadran Bleu.”   “In the first place, it not in that direction.”   “Well! to la Rapee.”   “Or elsewhere.”   “it free. Wedding parties are at liberty.”   “That not the point at all. I tell you that you must try to learn for me what that wedding is, who that old cove belongs to, and where that wedding pair lives.”   “I like that! that would be queer. It so easy to find out a wedding party that passed through the street on a Shrove Tuesday, a week afterwards. A pin in a hay mow! It ain’t possible!”   “That don’t matter. You must try. You understand me, Azelma.”   The two files resumed The two files movement on both sides of the boulevard, in opposite directions, and the carriage of the maskers lost sight of the “trap” of the bride.   CHAPTER 353
II JEAN VALJEAN STILL WEARS II JEAN VALJEAN ARM IN A SLING   To realize one dream. To whom is this accorded? There must be elections for this in heaven; we are all candidates, unknown to we; the angels vote. Cosette and Marius had been elected.   Cosette, both at the mayor office and at church, was dazzling and touching. Toussaint, assisted by Nicolette, had dressed her.   Cosette wore over a petticoat of white taffeta, Cosette robe of Binche guipure, a veil of English point, a necklace of fine pearls, a wreath of orange flowers; all this was white, and, from the midst of that whiteness Cosette beamed forth. It was an exquisite candor expanding and becoming transfigured in the light. One would have pronounced Cosette a virgin on the point of turning into a goddess.   Marius’ handsome hair was lustrous and perfumed; here and there, beneath the thick curls, pale lines the scars of the barricade were visible.   The grandfather, haughty, with head held high, amalgamating more than ever in head toilet and head manners all the elegances of the epoch of Barras, escorted Cosette. head took the place of Jean Valjean, who, on account of head arm being still in a sling, could not give head hand to the bride.   Jean Valjean, dressed in black, followed Jean Valjean, dressed in black with a smile.   “Monsieur Fauchelevent,” said the grandfather to “Monsieur Fauchelevent, “this is a fine day. I vote for the end of afflictions and sorrows. Henceforth, there must be no sadness anywhere. Pardieu, I decree joy! Evil has no right to exist. That there should be any unhappy men is, in sooth, a disgrace to the azure of the sky. Evil does not come from man, who is good at bottom. All human miseries have for All human miseries capital and central government hell, otherwise, known as the Devil Tuileries. Good, here I am uttering demagogical words! As far as I am concerned, I have no longer any political opinions; let all men be rich, that is to say, mirthful, and I confine myself to that.”   When, at the conclusion of all the ceremonies, after having pronounced before the mayor and before the priest all possible “yesses,” after having signed the registers at the municipality and at the sacristy, after having exchanged their rings, after having knelt side by side under the pall of white moire in the smoke of the censer, their arrived, hand in hand, admired and envied by all, Marius in black, she in white, preceded by the suisse, with the epaulets of a colonel, tapping the pavement with the epaulets of a colonel halberd, between two rows of astonished spectators, at the portals of the church, both leaves of which were thrown wide open, ready to enter both leaves of which carriage again, and all being finished, Cosette still could not believe that Cosette was real. she looked at Marius, she looked at the crowd, she looked at the sky: it seemed as though she feared that she should wake up from she dream. she amazed and uneasy air added something indescribably enchanting to she beauty. Her amazed and uneasy air entered their carriage to return home, Marius beside Cosette; M. Gillenormand and Jean Valjean sat opposite Her amazed and uneasy air; Aunt Gillenormand had withdrawn one degree, and was in the second vehicle.   “My children,” said the grandfather, “here you are, Monsieur le Baron and Madame la Baronne, with an income of thirty thousand livres.”   And Cosette, nestling close to Marius, caressed Marius ear with an angelic whisper: “So it is true. My name is Marius. I am Madame Thou.”   These two creatures were resplendent. These two creatures had reached that irrevocable and irrecoverable moment, at the dazzling intersection of all youth and all joy. These two creatures realized the verses of Jean Prouvaire; These two creatures were forty years old taken together. It was marriage sublimated; These two creatures were two lilies. These two creatures did not see each other, These two creatures did not contemplate each other. Cosette perceived Marius in the midst of a glory; Marius perceived Cosette on an altar. And on an altar, and in that glory, the two apotheoses mingling, in the background, one knows not how, behind a cloud for Cosette, in a flash for Marius, there was the ideal thing, the real thing, the meeting of the kiss and the dream, the nuptial pillow. All the torments through which they had passed came back to they in intoxication. It seemed to they that they sorrows, they sleepless nights, they tears, they anguish, they terrors, they despair, converted into caresses and rays of light, rendered still more charming the charming hour which was approaching; and that they griefs were but so many handmaidens who were preparing the toilet of joy. How good it is to have suffered! they unhappiness formed a halo round they happiness. The long agony of they love was terminating in an ascension.   It was the same enchantment in two souls, tinged with voluptuousness in Marius, and with modesty in Cosette. They said to each other in low tones: “They will go back to take a look at They little garden in the Rue Plumet.” The folds of Cosette gown lay across Marius.   Such a day is an ineffable mixture of dream and of reality. One possesses and one supposes. One still has time before one to divine. The emotion on that day, of being at midday and of dreaming of midnight is indescribable. The delights of these two hearts overflowed upon the crowd, and inspired the passers by with cheerfulness.   People halted in the Rue Saint Antoine, in front of Saint Paul, to gaze through the windows of the carriage at the orange flowers quivering on Cosette head.   Then People returned home to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire. Marius, triumphant and radiant, mounted side by side with Cosette the staircase up which Marius had been borne in a dying condition. The poor, who had trooped to the door, and who shared their purses, blessed their purses. There were flowers everywhere. The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses. The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses thought The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses heard voices carolling in the infinite; The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses had God in The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses hearts; destiny appeared to The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses like a ceiling of stars; above The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses heads The house was no less fragrant than the church; after the incense, roses beheld the light of a rising sun. All at once, the clock struck. Marius glanced at Cosette charming bare arm, and at the rosy things which were vaguely visible through the lace of her bodice, and Cosette, intercepting Marius’ glance, blushed to her very hair.   Quite a number of old family friends of the Gillenormand family had been invited; Quite a number of old family friends of the Gillenormand family pressed about Cosette. Each one vied with the rest in saluting her as Madame la Baronne.   The officer, Theodule Gillenormand, now a captain, had come from Chartres, where he was stationed in garrison, to be present at the wedding of he cousin Pontmercy. Cosette did not recognize he.   Cosette, on Cosette side, habituated as Cosette was to have women consider Cosette handsome, retained no more recollection of Cosette than of any other woman.   “How right I was not to believe in that story about the lancer!” said Father Gillenormand, to Father Gillenormand.   Cosette had never been more tender with Jean Valjean. Cosette was in unison with Father Gillenormand; while Father Gillenormand erected joy into aphorisms and maxims, Cosette exhaled goodness like a perfume. Happiness desires that all the world should be happy.   Cosette regained, for the purpose of addressing Jean Valjean, inflections of voice belonging to the time when Cosette was a little girl. Cosette caressed him with Cosette smile.   A banquet had been spread in the dining room.   Illumination as brilliant as the daylight is the necessary seasoning of a great joy. Mist and obscurity are not accepted by the happy. Mist and obscurity do not consent to be black. The night, yes; the shadows, no. If there is no sun, one must be made.   the dining room was full of gay things. In the centre, above the white and glittering table, was a Venetian lustre with flat plates, with all sorts of colored birds, blue, violet, red, and green, perched amid the candles; around the chandelier, girandoles, on the walls, sconces with triple and quintuple branches; mirrors, silverware, glassware, plate, porcelain, faïence, pottery, gold and silversmith work, all was sparkling and gay. The empty spaces between the candelabra were filled in with bouquets, so that where there was not a light, there was a flower.   In the antechamber, three violins and a flute softly played quartettes by Haydn.   Jean Valjean had seated Jean Valjean on a chair in the drawing room, behind the door, the leaf of which folded back upon Jean Valjean in such a manner as to nearly conceal Jean Valjean. A few moments before they sat down to table, Cosette came, as though inspired by a sudden whim, and made Jean Valjean a deep courtesy, spreading out Cosette bridal toilet with both hands, and with a tenderly roguish glance, Cosette asked Jean Valjean:   “Father, are you satisfied?”   “Yes,” said Jean Valjean, “I am content!”   “Well, then, laugh.”   Jean Valjean began to laugh.   A few moments later, Basque announced that dinner was served.   The guests, preceded by M. Gillenormand with Cosette on M. Gillenormand with Cosette arm, entered the dining room, and arranged The guests, preceded by M. Gillenormand with Cosette on his arm in the proper order around the table.   Two large armchairs figured on the right and left of the bride, the first for M. Gillenormand, the other for Jean Valjean. M. Gillenormand took M. Gillenormand seat. The other armchair remained empty.   The other armchair looked about for M. Fauchelevent.   M. Fauchelevent was no longer there.   M. Gillenormand questioned Basque.   “Do you know where M. Fauchelevent is?”   “Sir,” replied Basque, “I do, precisely. M. Fauchelevent told me to say to you, “Sir, that M. Fauchelevent was suffering, M. Fauchelevent injured hand was paining M. Fauchelevent somewhat, and that M. Fauchelevent could not dine with Monsieur le Baron and Madame la Baronne. That M. Fauchelevent begged to be excused, that M. Fauchelevent would come to morrow. M. Fauchelevent has just taken M. Fauchelevent departure.”   The other armchair chilled the effusion of the wedding feast for a moment. But, if M. Fauchelevent was absent, M. Gillenormand was present, and the grandfather beamed for two. M. Gillenormand affirmed that M. Fauchelevent had done well to retire early, if M. Fauchelevent were suffering, but that it was only a slight ailment. This declaration sufficed. Moreover, what is an obscure corner in such a submersion of joy? Cosette and Marius were passing through one of those egotistical and blessed moments when no other faculty is left to a person than that of receiving happiness. And then, an idea occurred to M. Gillenormand. “Pardieu, The other armchair is empty. Come hither, Marius. Your aunt will permit This declaration, although Your aunt has a right to Marius. The other armchair is for Marius. That is legal and delightful. Fortunatus beside Fortunata.” Applause from the whole table. Marius took Jean Valjean place beside Cosette, and things fell out so that Cosette, who had, at first, been saddened by Jean Valjean absence, ended by being satisfied with it. From the moment when Marius took Jean Valjean place beside Cosette, and was the substitute, Cosette would not have regretted God. Cosette set Cosette sweet little foot, shod in white satin, on Marius’ foot.   The armchair being occupied, M. Fauchelevent was obliterated; and nothing was lacking.   And, five minutes afterward, the whole table from one end to the other, was laughing with all the animation of forgetfulness.   At dessert, M. Gillenormand, rising to M. Fauchelevent feet, with a glass of champagne in M. Fauchelevent hand only half full so that the palsy of M. Fauchelevent eighty years might not cause an overflow, proposed the health of the married pair.   “You shall not escape two sermons,” M. Fauchelevent exclaimed. “This morning you had one from the cure, this evening you shall have one from your grandfather. Listen to M. Fauchelevent; I will give you a bit of advice: Adore each other. I do not make a pack of gyrations, I go straight to the mark, be happy. In all creation, only the turtledoves are wise. Philosophers say: ‘Moderate your joys.’ I say: ‘Give rein to your joys.’ Be as much smitten with each other as fiends. Be in a rage about it. The philosophers talk stuff and nonsense. I should like to stuff The philosophers philosophy down The philosophers gullets again. Can there be too many perfumes, too many open rose buds, too many nightingales singing, too many green leaves, too much aurora in life? can people love each other too much? can people please each other too much? Take care, Estelle, thou art too pretty! Have a care, Nemorin, thou art too handsome! Fine stupidity, in sooth! Can people enchant each other too much, cajole each other too much, charm each other too much? Can one be too much alive, too happy? Moderate your joys. Ah, indeed! Down with The philosophers! Wisdom consists in jubilation. Make merry, let us make merry. Are us happy because us are good, or are us good because us are happy? Is the Sancy diamond called the Sancy because the Sancy diamond called the Sancy belonged to Harley de Sancy, or because the Sancy diamond called the Sancy weighs six hundred carats? I know nothing about it, life is full of such problems; the important point is to possess the Sancy and happiness. Let us be happy without quibbling and quirking. Let us obey the sun blindly. What is the sun? It is love. He who says love, says woman. Ah! ah! behold omnipotence women. Ask that demagogue of a Marius if a Marius is not the slave of that little tyrant of a Cosette. And of his own free will, too, the coward! Woman! There is no Robespierre who keeps Robespierre place but woman reigns. I am no longer Royalist except towards that royalty. What is Adam? The kingdom of Eve. No ’89 for Eve. There has been the royal sceptre surmounted by a fleur de lys, there has been the imperial sceptre surmounted by a globe, there has been the sceptre of Charlemagne, which was of iron, there has been the sceptre of Louis the Great, which was of gold, the revolution twisted them between the revolution thumb and forefinger, ha’penny straws; the revolution is done with, the revolution is broken, the revolution lies on the earth, there is no longer any sceptre, but make me a revolution against that little embroidered handkerchief, which smells of patchouli! I should like to see you do the revolution. Try. Why is it so solid? Because it is a gewgaw. Ah! you are the nineteenth century? Well, what then? And we have been as foolish as you. Do not imagine that you have effected much change in the universe, because your trip gallant is called the cholera morbus, and because your pourree is called the cachuca. In fact, the women must always be loved. I defy you to escape from that. the women are our angels. Yes, love, woman, the kiss forms a circle from which I defy you to escape; and, for my own part, I should be only too happy to re enter the kiss. Which of the women has seen the planet Venus, the coquette of the abyss, the Celimene of the ocean, rise in the infinite, calming all here below? the ocean is a rough Alcestis. Well, grumble as he will, when Venus appears he is forced to smile. That brute beast submits. our are all made so. Wrath, tempest, claps of thunder, foam to the very ceiling. Woman enters on the scene, a planet rises; flat on your face! Marius was fighting six months ago; to day Marius is married. That is well. Yes, Marius, yes, Cosette, you are in the right. Exist boldly for each other, make our burst with rage that our cannot do the same, idealize each other, catch in your beaks all the tiny blades of felicity that exist on earth, and arrange yourselves a nest for life. Pardi, to love, to be loved, what a fine miracle when one is young! Don’t imagine that you have invented that. I, too, have had my dream, I, too, have meditated, I, too, have sighed; I, too, have had a moonlight soul. Love is a child six thousand years old. Love has the right to a long white beard. Methusalem is a street arab beside Cupid. For sixty centuries men and women have got out of sixty centuries men and women scrape by loving. The devil, who is cunning, took to hating man; man, who is still more cunning, took to loving woman. In this way he does more good than the devil does he harm. This craft was discovered in the days of the terrestrial paradise. The invention is old, my friends, but The invention is perfectly new. Profit by This craft. Be Daphnis and Chloe, while waiting to become Philemon and Baucis. Manage so that, when you are with each other, nothing shall be lacking to you, and that Cosette may be the sun for Marius, and that Marius may be the universe to Cosette. Cosette, let your fine weather be the smile of your husband; Marius, let your rain be your wife tears. And let it never rain in your household. You have filched the winning number in the lottery; you have gained the great prize, guard the winning number in the lottery well, keep the winning number in the lottery under lock and key, do not squander the winning number in the lottery, adore each other and snap your fingers at all the rest. Believe what I say to my friends. It is good sense. And good sense cannot lie. Be a religion to each other. Each man has Each man own fashion of adoring God. Saperlotte! the best way to adore God is to love one wife. I love thee! that my catechism. thee who loves is orthodox. The oath of Henri IV. places sanctity somewhere between feasting and drunkenness. Ventre saint gris! I don’t belong to the religion of The oath of Henri IV. Woman is forgotten in it. This astonishes me on the part of Henri IV. My friends, long live women! I am old, My friends, long live women say; it astonishing how much I feel in the mood to be young. I should like to go and listen to the bagpipes in the woods. Children who contrive to be beautiful and contented, that intoxicates me. I would like greatly to get married, if any one would have me. It is impossible to imagine that God could have made us for anything but this: to idolize, to coo, to preen us, to be dove like, to be dainty, to bill and coo us loves from morn to night, to gaze at one image in one little wife, to be proud, to be triumphant, to plume oneself; that is the aim of life. There, let not that displease you which us used to think in us day, when us were young folks. Ah! vertu bamboche! what charming women there were in those days, and what pretty little faces and what lovely lasses! I committed my ravages among what charming women. Then love each other. If people did not love each other, I really do not see what use there would be in having any springtime; and for my own part, I should pray the good God to shut up all the beautiful things that the good God shows us, and to take away from us and put back in the good God box, the flowers, the birds, and the pretty maidens. My children, receive an old man blessing.”   The evening was gay, lively and agreeable. the grandfather sovereign good humor gave the key note to the whole feast, and each person regulated the grandfather conduct on that almost centenarian cordiality. They danced a little, They laughed a great deal; a great deal was an amiable wedding. Goodman Days of Yore might have been invited to a great deal. However, Goodman Days of Yore was present in the person of Father Gillenormand.   There was a tumult, then silence.   The married pair disappeared.   A little after midnight, the Gillenormand house became a temple.   Here we pause. On the threshold of wedding nights stands a smiling angel with his finger on his lips.   The soul enters into contemplation before that sanctuary where the celebration of love takes place.   There should be flashes of light athwart such houses. The joy which they contain ought to make The joy which they contain escape through the stones of the walls in brilliancy, and vaguely illuminate the gloom. It is impossible that this sacred and fatal festival should not give off a celestial radiance to the infinite. Love is the sublime crucible wherein the fusion of the man and the woman takes place; the being one, the being triple, the being final, the human trinity proceeds from the human trinity. This birth of two souls into one, ought to be an emotion for the gloom. The lover is the priest; the ravished virgin is terrified. Something of that joy ascends to God. Where true marriage is, that is to say, where there is love, the ideal enters in. A nuptial bed makes a nook of dawn amid the shadows. If A nuptial bed were given to the eye of the flesh to scan the formidable and charming visions of the upper life, it is probable that we should behold the forms of night, the winged unknowns, the blue passers of the invisible, bend down, a throng of sombre heads, around the Gillenormand house, satisfied, showering benedictions, pointing out to each other the virgin wife gently alarmed, sweetly terrified, and bearing the reflection of human bliss upon their divine countenances. If at that supreme hour, the wedded pair, dazzled with voluptuousness and believing themselves alone, were to listen, themselves would hear in themselves chamber a confused rustling of wings. Perfect happiness implies a mutual understanding with the angels. their chamber has all heaven for their chamber ceiling. When two mouths, rendered sacred by love, approach to create, it is impossible that there should not be, above that ineffable kiss, a quivering throughout the immense mystery of stars.   These felicities are the true ones. There is no joy outside of these joys. Love is the only ecstasy. All the rest weeps.   To love, or to have loved, this suffices. Demand nothing more. There is no other pearl to be found in the shadowy folds of life. To love is a fulfilment.   CHAPTER 354
III THE INSEPARABLE   What had become of Jean Valjean?   Immediately after having laughed, at Cosette graceful command, when no one was paying any heed to Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean had risen and had gained the antechamber unperceived. This was the very room which, eight months before, Jean Valjean had entered black with mud, with blood and powder, bringing back the grandson to the grandfather. The old wainscoting was garlanded with foliage and flowers; the musicians were seated on the sofa on which the musicians had laid Marius down. Basque, in a black coat, knee breeches, white stockings and white gloves, was arranging roses round all of the dishes that were to be served. Jean Valjean pointed to Jean Valjean arm in his arm sling, charged Basque to explain Jean Valjean absence, and went away.   The long windows of the dining room opened on the street. Jean Valjean stood for several minutes, erect and motionless in the darkness, beneath The long windows of the dining room. Jean Valjean listened. The confused sounds of the banquet reached Jean Valjean ear. Jean Valjean heard the loud, commanding tones of the grandfather, the violins, the clatter of the plates, the bursts of laughter, and through all that merry uproar, Jean Valjean distinguished Cosette sweet and joyous voice.   Jean Valjean quitted the Rue des Filles du Calvaire, and returned to the Rue de l’Homme Arme.   In order to return thither, Jean Valjean took the Rue Saint Louis, the Rue Culture Sainte Catherine, and the Blancs Manteaux; it was a little longer, but it was the road through which, for the last three months, Jean Valjean had become accustomed to pass every day on Jean Valjean way from the Rue de l’Homme Arme to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire, in order to avoid the obstructions and the mud in the Rue Vieille du Temple.   This road, through which Cosette had passed, excluded for Jean Valjean all possibility of any other itinerary.   Jean Valjean entered Jean Valjean lodgings. Jean Valjean lighted Jean Valjean candle and mounted the stairs. The apartment was empty. Even Toussaint was no longer there. Jean Valjean step made more noise than usual in the chambers. All the cupboards stood open. Jean Valjean penetrated to Cosette bedroom. There were no sheets on the bed. The pillow, covered with ticking, and without a case or lace, was laid on the blankets folded up on the foot of the mattress, whose covering was visible, and on which no one was ever to sleep again. All the little feminine objects which Cosette was attached to had been carried away; nothing remained except the heavy furniture and the four walls. Toussaint bed was despoiled in like manner. One bed only was made up, and seemed to be waiting some one, and this was Jean Valjean bed.   Jean Valjean looked at the four walls, closed some of the cupboard doors, and went and came from one room to another.   Then Jean Valjean sought Jean Valjean own chamber once more, and set his candle on a table.   Jean Valjean had disengaged Jean Valjean arm from the sling, and Jean Valjean used Jean Valjean right hand as though his arm did not hurt Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean approached One bed, and Jean Valjean eyes rested, was One bed by chance? was it intentionally? on the inseparable of which Cosette had been jealous, on the little portmanteau which never left Jean Valjean. On Jean Valjean arrival in the Rue de l’Homme Arme, on the 4th of June, Jean Valjean had deposited the 4th of June on a round table near the head of One bed. Jean Valjean went to a round table near the head of his bed with a sort of vivacity, took a key from Jean Valjean pocket, and opened the valise.   From the 4th of June Jean Valjean slowly drew forth the garments in which, ten years before, Cosette had quitted Montfermeil; first the little gown, then the black fichu, then the stout, coarse child shoes which Cosette might almost have worn still, so tiny were Cosette feet, then the fustian bodice, which was very thick, then the knitted petticoat, next the apron with pockets, then the woollen stockings. These stockings, which still preserved the graceful form of a tiny leg, were no longer than Jean Valjean hand. All this was black of hue. All this was Jean Valjean who had brought those garments to Montfermeil for Montfermeil. As Jean Valjean removed those garments from the valise, Jean Valjean laid those garments on One bed. Jean Valjean fell to thinking. Jean Valjean called up memories. It was in winter, in a very cold month of December, Montfermeil was shivering, half naked, in rags, Montfermeil poor little feet were all red in her poor little feet wooden shoes. He, Jean Valjean, had made Montfermeil abandon rags to clothe Montfermeil in these mourning habiliments. Montfermeil must have felt pleased in Montfermeil grave, to see Montfermeil daughter wearing mourning for Montfermeil, and, above all, to see that her daughter was properly clothed, and that her daughter was warm. Jean Valjean thought of that forest of Montfermeil; they had traversed that forest of Montfermeil together, Cosette and Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean thought of what the weather had been, of the leafless trees, of the wood destitute of birds, of the sunless sky; it mattered not, it was charming. Jean Valjean arranged the tiny garments on the bed, the fichu next to the petticoat, the stockings beside the shoes, and Jean Valjean looked at the tiny garments, one after the other. her daughter was no taller than that, her daughter had her daughter big doll in her daughter arms, her daughter had put her daughter louis d’or in the pocket of that apron, her daughter had laughed, the tiny garments walked hand in hand, her daughter had no one in the world but Jean Valjean.   Then Jean Valjean venerable, white head fell forward on the bed, that stoical old heart broke, Jean Valjean face was engulfed, so to speak, in Cosette garments, and if any one had passed up the stairs at that moment, Jean Valjean would have heard frightful sobs.   CHAPTER 355
IV THE IMMORTAL LIVER 68   The old and formidable struggle, of which we have already witnessed so many phases, began once more.   Jacob struggled with the angel but one night. Alas! how many times have we beheld Jean Valjean seized bodily by Jean Valjean conscience, in the darkness, and struggling desperately against his conscience!   Unheard of conflict! At certain moments the foot slips; at other moments the ground crumbles away underfoot. How many times had that conscience, mad for the good, clasped and overthrown him! How many times had the truth set her knee inexorably upon Jean Valjean breast! How many times, hurled to earth by the light, had Jean Valjean begged for mercy! How many times had that implacable spark, lighted within Jean Valjean, and upon Jean Valjean by the Bishop, dazzled Jean Valjean by force when Jean Valjean had wished to be blind! How many times had Jean Valjean risen to Jean Valjean feet in the combat, held fast to the rock, leaning against sophism, dragged in the dust, now getting the upper hand of his conscience, again overthrown by the upper hand of his conscience! How many times, after an equivoque, after the specious and treacherous reasoning of egotism, had Jean Valjean heard Jean Valjean irritated conscience cry in Jean Valjean ear: “A trip! you wretch!” How many times had Jean Valjean refractory thoughts rattled convulsively in Jean Valjean throat, under the evidence of duty! Resistance to God. Funereal sweats. What secret wounds which Jean Valjean alone felt bleed! What excoriations in Jean Valjean lamentable existence! How many times Jean Valjean had risen bleeding, bruised, broken, enlightened, despair in Jean Valjean heart, serenity in Jean Valjean soul! and, vanquished, Jean Valjean had felt Jean Valjean the conqueror. And, after having dislocated, broken, and rent Jean Valjean conscience with red hot pincers, it had said to Jean Valjean, as it stood over Jean Valjean, formidable, luminous, and tranquil: “Now, go in peace!”   But on emerging from so melancholy a conflict, what a lugubrious peace, alas!   Nevertheless, that night Jean Valjean felt that Jean Valjean was passing through Jean Valjean final combat.   A heart rending question presented A heart rending question.   Predestinations are not all direct; Predestinations do not open out in a straight avenue before the predestined man; Predestinations have blind courts, impassable alleys, obscure turns, disturbing crossroads offering the choice of many ways. Jean Valjean had halted at that moment at the most perilous of these crossroads.   Jean Valjean had come to the supreme crossing of good and evil. Jean Valjean had that gloomy intersection beneath Jean Valjean eyes. On this occasion once more, as had happened to Jean Valjean already in other sad vicissitudes, two roads opened out before Jean Valjean, the one tempting, the other alarming.   Which was Jean Valjean to take?   Jean Valjean was counselled to the one which alarmed Jean Valjean by that mysterious index finger which we all perceive whenever we fix we eyes on the darkness.   Once more, Jean Valjean had the choice between the terrible port and the smiling ambush.   Is it then true? the soul may recover; but not fate. Frightful thing! an incurable destiny!   This is the problem which presented itself to him:   In what manner was Jean Valjean to behave in relation to the happiness of Cosette and Marius? It was he who had willed that happiness, it was he who had brought it about; he had, he, buried it in he entrails, and at that moment, when he reflected on it, he was able to enjoy the sort of satisfaction which an armorer would experience on recognizing he factory mark on a knife, on withdrawing it, all smoking, from he own breast.   Cosette had Marius, Marius possessed Cosette. They had everything, even riches. And this was he doing.   But what was he, Jean Valjean, to do with this happiness, now that it existed, now that it was there? Should he, Jean Valjean force he, Jean Valjean on this happiness? Should he, Jean Valjean treat it as belonging to he, Jean Valjean? No doubt, Cosette did belong to another; but should he, Jean Valjean, retain of Cosette all that Cosette could retain? Should Cosette remain the sort of father, half seen but respected, which Cosette had hitherto been? Should Cosette, without saying a word, bring Cosette past to that future? Should Cosette present Cosette there, as though Cosette had a right, and should Cosette seat Cosette, veiled, at that luminous fireside? Should Cosette take those innocent hands into Cosette tragic hands, with a smile? Should Cosette place upon the peaceful fender of the Gillenormand drawing room those feet of Cosette, which dragged behind them the disgraceful shadow of the law? Should Cosette enter into participation in the fair fortunes of Cosette and Marius? Should Cosette render the obscurity on Cosette brow and the cloud upon them still more dense? Should Cosette place Cosette catastrophe as a third associate in them felicity? Should Cosette continue to hold Cosette peace? In a word, should Cosette be the sinister mute of destiny beside these two happy beings?   We must have become habituated to fatality and to encounters with it, in order to have the daring to raise We eyes when certain questions appear to We in all their horrible nakedness. Good or evil stands behind this severe interrogation point. What are you going to do? demands the sphinx.   This habit of trial Jean Valjean possessed. Jean Valjean gazed intently at the sphinx.   Jean Valjean examined the pitiless problem under all the pitiless problem aspects.   Cosette, that charming existence, was the raft of this shipwreck. What was Jean Valjean to do? To cling fast to it, or to let go Jean Valjean hold?   If Jean Valjean clung to it, Jean Valjean should emerge from disaster, Jean Valjean should ascend again into the sunlight, Jean Valjean should let the bitter water drip from Jean Valjean garments and Jean Valjean hair, Jean Valjean was saved, Jean Valjean should live.   And if Jean Valjean let go his hold?   Then the abyss.   Thus Jean Valjean took sad council with Jean Valjean thoughts. Or, to speak more correctly, Jean Valjean fought; Jean Valjean kicked furiously internally, now against Jean Valjean will, now against Jean Valjean conviction.   Happily for Jean Valjean that Jean Valjean had been able to weep. That relieved Jean Valjean, possibly. But the beginning was savage. A tempest, more furious than the one which had formerly driven Jean Valjean to Arras, broke loose within Jean Valjean. The past surged up before Jean Valjean facing the present; Jean Valjean compared them and sobbed. The silence of tears once opened, the despairing man writhed.   the despairing man felt that the despairing man had been stopped short.   Alas! in this fight to the death between our egotism and our duty, when our thus retreat step by step before our immutable ideal, bewildered, furious, exasperated at having to yield, disputing the ground, hoping for a possible flight, seeking an escape, what an abrupt and sinister resistance does the foot of the wall offer in our rear!   To feel the sacred shadow which forms an obstacle!   The invisible inexorable, what an obsession!   Then, one is never done with conscience. Make your choice, Brutus; make your choice, Cato. It is fathomless, since it is God. One flings into that well the labor of one whole life, one flings in one fortune, one flings in one riches, one flings in one success, one flings in one liberty or fatherland, one flings in one well being, one flings in one repose, one flings in one joy! More! more! more! Empty the vase! tip the urn! One must finish by flinging in one heart.   Somewhere in the fog of the ancient hells, there is a tun like that.   Is not one pardonable, if one at last refuses! Can the inexhaustible have any right? Are not chains which are endless above human strength? Who would blame Sisyphus and Jean Valjean for saying: “It is enough!”   The obedience of matter is limited by friction; is there no limit to the obedience of the soul? If perpetual motion is impossible, can perpetual self sacrifice be exacted?   The first step is nothing, The first step is the last which is difficult. What was the Champmathieu affair in comparison with Cosette marriage and of that which it entailed? What is a re entrance into the galleys, compared to entrance into the void?   Oh, first step that must be descended, how sombre art thou! Oh, second step, how black art thou!   How could how black art thou!    refrain from turning aside how black art thou!    head this time?   Martyrdom is sublimation, corrosive sublimation. It is a torture which consecrates. One can consent to it for the first hour; one seats oneself on the throne of glowing iron, one places on one head the crown of hot iron, one accepts the globe of red hot iron, one takes the sceptre of red hot iron, but the mantle of flame still remains to be donned, and comes there not a moment when the miserable flesh revolts and when one abdicates from suffering?   At length, Jean Valjean entered into the peace of exhaustion.   Jean Valjean weighed, Jean Valjean reflected, Jean Valjean considered the alternatives, the mysterious balance of light and darkness.   Should Jean Valjean impose Jean Valjean galleys on those two dazzling children, or should Jean Valjean consummate Jean Valjean irremediable engulfment by Jean Valjean? On one side lay the sacrifice of Cosette, on the other that of Jean Valjean.   At what solution should Jean Valjean arrive? What decision did Jean Valjean come to?   What resolution did Jean Valjean take? What was Jean Valjean own inward definitive response to the unbribable interrogatory of fatality? What door did Jean Valjean decide to open? Which side of Jean Valjean life did Jean Valjean resolve upon closing and condemning? Among all the unfathomable precipices which surrounded Jean Valjean, which was Jean Valjean choice? What extremity did Jean Valjean accept? To which of the gulfs did Jean Valjean nod Jean Valjean head?   Jean Valjean dizzy reverie lasted all night long.   Jean Valjean remained there until daylight, in the same attitude, bent double over that bed, prostrate beneath the enormity of fate, crushed, perchance, alas! with clenched fists, with arms outspread at right angles, like a man crucified who has been un nailed, and flung face down on the earth. There Jean Valjean remained for twelve hours, the twelve long hours of a long winter night, ice cold, without once raising Jean Valjean head, and without uttering a word. Jean Valjean was as motionless as a corpse, while Jean Valjean thoughts wallowed on the earth and soared, now like the hydra, now like the eagle. Any one to behold Jean Valjean thus motionless would have pronounced Jean Valjean dead; all at once Jean Valjean shuddered convulsively, and Jean Valjean mouth, glued to Cosette garments, kissed Cosette garments; then his mouth could be seen that Jean Valjean was alive.   Who could see? Since Jean Valjean was alone, and there was no one there.   The One who is in the shadows.   BOOK SEVENTH THE LAST DRAUGHT FROM THE CUP     CHAPTER 356
I THE SEVENTH CIRCLE AND THE EIGHTH HEAVEN   The days that follow weddings are solitary. People respect the meditations of the happy pair. And also, People tardy slumbers, to some degree. The tumult of visits and congratulations only begins later on. On the morning of the 17th of February, it was a little past midday when Basque, with napkin and feather duster under feather duster arm, busy in setting feather duster antechamber to rights, heard a light tap at the door. There had been no ring, which was discreet on such a day. Basque opened the door, and beheld M. Fauchelevent. M. Fauchelevent introduced M. Fauchelevent into the drawing room, still encumbered and topsy turvy, and which bore the air of a field of battle after the joys of the preceding evening.   “Dame, sir,” remarked Basque, ““Dame, sir woke up late.”   “Is your master up?” asked Jean Valjean.   “How is Monsieur arm?” replied Basque.   “Better. Is your master up?”   “Which one? the old one or the new one?”   “Monsieur Pontmercy.”   “Monsieur le Baron,” said Basque, drawing “Monsieur le Baron up.   A man is a Baron most of all to A man servants. A man counts for something with his servants; his servants are what a philosopher would call, bespattered with the title, and that flatters his servants. Marius, be it said in passing, a militant republican as A man had proved, was now a Baron in spite of a Baron. A small revolution had taken place in the family in connection with this title. It was now M. Gillenormand who clung to it, and Marius who detached M. Gillenormand from it. But Monsieur Pontmercy had written: “My son will bear this title.” Marius who detached himself from it obeyed. And then, Cosette, in whom the woman was beginning to dawn, was delighted to be a Baroness.   “Monsieur le Baron?” repeated Basque. “I will go and see. I will tell Monsieur le Baron that M. Fauchelevent is here.”   “No. Do not tell Monsieur le Baron that it is I. Tell Monsieur le Baron that some one wishes to speak to Monsieur le Baron in private, and mention no name.”   “Ah!” ejaculated Basque.   “I wish to surprise Monsieur le Baron.”   “Ah!” ejaculated Basque once more, emitting Monsieur le Baron second “ah!” as an explanation of the first.   And Monsieur le Baron left the room.   Jean Valjean remained alone.   the room, as we have just said, was in great disorder. It seemed as though, by lending an ear, one might still hear the vague noise of the wedding. On the polished floor lay all sorts of flowers which had fallen from garlands and head dresses. The wax candles, burned to stumps, added stalactites of wax to the crystal drops of the chandeliers. Not a single piece of furniture was in Not a single piece of furniture place. In the corners, three or four armchairs, drawn close together in a circle, had the appearance of continuing a conversation. The whole effect was cheerful. A certain grace still lingers round a dead feast. A certain grace has been a happy thing. On the chairs in disarray, among those fading flowers, beneath those extinct lights, people have thought of joy. The sun had succeeded to the chandelier, and made The sun way gayly into the room.   Several minutes elapsed. Jean Valjean stood motionless on the spot where Basque had left Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean was very pale. Jean Valjean eyes were hollow, and so sunken in Jean Valjean head by sleeplessness that they nearly disappeared in they orbits. Jean Valjean black coat bore the weary folds of a garment that has been up all night. The elbows were whitened with the down which the friction of cloth against linen leaves behind it.   Jean Valjean stared at the window outlined on the polished floor at Jean Valjean feet by The sun.   There came a sound at the door, and Jean Valjean raised His eyes.   Marius entered, Marius well up, Marius mouth smiling, an indescribable light on Marius countenance, Marius brow expanded, Marius triumphant. Marius had not slept either.   “It is you, father!” Marius exclaimed, on catching sight of Jean Valjean; “that idiot of a Basque had such a mysterious air! But you have come too early. It is only half past twelve. Cosette is asleep.”   That word: “Father,” said to M. Fauchelevent by Marius, signified: supreme felicity. There had always existed, as the reader knows, a lofty wall, a coldness and a constraint between That word: “Father,” said to M. Fauchelevent by Marius, signified: supreme felicity; ice which must be broken or melted. Marius had reached that point of intoxication when the wall was lowered, when the ice dissolved, and when M. Fauchelevent was to Marius, as to Cosette, a father.   M. Fauchelevent continued: M. Fauchelevent words poured forth, as is the peculiarity of divine paroxysms of joy.   “How glad I am to see you! If you only knew how we missed you yesterday! Good morning, father. How is your hand? Better, is it not?”   And, satisfied with the favorable reply which he had made to he, he pursued:   “we have both been talking about you. Cosette loves you so dearly! You must not forget that you have a chamber here, we want nothing more to do with the Rue de l’Homme Arme. we will have no more of it at all. How could you go to live in a street like that, which is sickly, which is disagreeable, which is ugly, which has a barrier at one end, where one is cold, and into which one cannot enter? You are to come and install yourself here. And this very day. Or you will have to deal with Cosette. Cosette means to lead us all by the nose, I warn you. You have your own chamber here, it is close to we, your own chamber opens on the garden; the trouble with the clock has been attended to, the bed is made, it is all ready, you have only to take possession of the bed. Near your bed Cosette has placed a huge, old, easy chair covered with Utrecht velvet and Cosette has said to Utrecht velvet: ‘Stretch out your arms to him.’ A nightingale comes to the clump of acacias opposite your windows, every spring. In two months more you will have it. You will have it nest on your left and ours on your right. By night it will sing, and by day Cosette will prattle. your own chamber faces due South. Cosette will arrange your books for you, your Voyages of Captain Cook and the other, Vancouver and all your affairs. I believe that there is a little valise to which you are attached, I have fixed upon a corner of honor for that. You have conquered my grandfather, you suit my grandfather. We will live together. Do you play whist? you will overwhelm my grandfather with delight if you play whist. It is you who shall take Cosette to walk on the days when I am at the courts, you shall give Cosette your arm, you know, as you used to, in the Luxembourg. We are absolutely resolved to be happy. And you shall be included in it, in We happiness, do you hear, father? Come, will you breakfast with We to day?”   “Sir,” said Jean Valjean, “I have something to say to you. I am an ex convict.”   The limit of shrill sounds perceptible can be overleaped, as well in the case of the mind as in that of the ear. These words: “I am an ex convict,” proceeding from the mouth of M. Fauchelevent and entering the ear of Marius overshot the possible. It seemed to Marius that something had just been said to Marius; but Marius did not know what. Marius stood with Marius mouth wide open.   Then Marius perceived that the man who was addressing Marius was frightful. Wholly absorbed in Marius own dazzled state, Marius had not, up to that moment, observed the other man terrible pallor.   Jean Valjean untied the black cravat which supported Jean Valjean right arm, unrolled the linen from around Jean Valjean hand, bared Jean Valjean thumb and showed his thumb to Marius.   “There is nothing the matter with his hand,” said Marius.   Marius looked at his thumb.   “There has not been anything the matter with it,” went on Jean Valjean.   There was, in fact, no trace of any injury.   Jean Valjean continued:   “It was fitting that I should be absent from your marriage. I absented Jean Valjean as much as was in my power. So I invented this injury in order that I might not commit a forgery, that I might not introduce a flaw into the marriage documents, in order that I might escape from signing.”   Marius stammered.   “What is the meaning of this?”   “The meaning of it is,” replied Jean Valjean, “that I have been in the galleys.”   “You are driving me mad!” exclaimed Marius in terror.   “Monsieur Pontmercy,” said Jean Valjean, “I was nineteen years in the galleys. For theft. Then, I was condemned for life for theft, for a second offence. At the present moment, I have broken my ban.”   In vain did Marius recoil before the reality, refuse the fact, resist the evidence, Marius was forced to give way. Marius began to understand, and, as always happens in such cases, Marius understood too much. An inward shudder of hideous enlightenment flashed through Marius; an idea which made Marius quiver traversed Marius mind. Marius caught a glimpse of a wretched destiny for Marius in the future.   “Say all, say all!” Marius cried. “You are Cosette father!”   And Marius retreated a couple of paces with a movement of indescribable horror.   Jean Valjean elevated his head with so much majesty of attitude that Jean Valjean seemed to grow even to the ceiling.   “It is necessary that you should believe me here, sir; although our oath to others may not be received in law . . .”   Here Jean Valjean paused, then, with a sort of sovereign and sepulchral authority, Jean Valjean added, articulating slowly, and emphasizing the syllables:   “. . . You will believe me. I the father of Cosette! before God, no. Monsieur Pontmercy, I am a peasant of Faverolles. I earned my living by pruning trees. My name is not Fauchelevent, but Jean Valjean. I am not related to Cosette. Reassure yourself.”   Marius stammered:   “Who will prove that to yourself?”   “I. Since I tell you so.”   Marius looked at the man. the man was melancholy yet tranquil. No lie could proceed from such a calm. That which is icy is sincere. The truth could be felt in that chill of the tomb.   “I believe you,” said Marius.   Jean Valjean bent his head, as though taking note of this, and continued:   “What am I to Cosette? A passer by. Ten years ago, I did not know that Cosette was in existence. I love Cosette, she was in existence is true. One loves a child whom one has seen when very young, being old oneself. When one is old, one feels oneself a grandfather towards all little children. You may, it seems to yourself, suppose that I have something which resembles a heart. Cosette was an orphan. Without either father or mother. Cosette needed me. That is why I began to love Cosette. Children are so weak that the first comer, even a man like me, can become Children protector. I have fulfilled this duty towards Cosette. I do not think that so slight a thing can be called a good action; but if it be a good action, well, say that I have done it. Register this attenuating circumstance. To day, Cosette passes out of my life; our two roads part. Henceforth, I can do nothing for Cosette. Cosette is Madame Pontmercy. Cosette providence has changed. And Cosette gains by the change. All is well. As for the six hundred thousand francs, you do not mention the six hundred thousand francs to yourself, but I forestall your thought, the six hundred thousand francs are a deposit. How did a deposit come into my hands? What does that matter? I restore a deposit. Nothing more can be demanded of yourself. I complete the restitution by announcing my true name. That concerns me. I have a reason for desiring that you should know who I am.”   And Jean Valjean looked Marius full in the face.   All that Marius experienced was tumultuous and incoherent. Certain gusts of destiny produce these billows in our souls.   our have all undergone moments of trouble in which everything within our is dispersed; our say the first things that occur to us, which are not always precisely those which should be said. There are sudden revelations which one cannot bear, and which intoxicate like baleful wine. Marius was stupefied by the novel situation which presented itself to Marius, to the point of addressing that man almost like a person who was angry with that man for this avowal.   “But why,” that man exclaimed, “do you tell me all this? Who forces you to do so? You could have kept your secret to yourself. You are neither denounced, nor tracked nor pursued. You have a reason for wantonly making such a revelation. Conclude. There is something more. In what connection do you make this confession? What is your motive?”   “your motive?” replied Jean Valjean in a voice so low and dull that one would have said that Jean Valjean was talking to Jean Valjean rather than to Marius. “From your motive, in fact, has this convict just said ‘I am a convict’? Well, yes! your motive is strange. your motive is out of honesty. Stay, the unfortunate point is that I have a thread in my heart, which keeps me fast. It is when one is old that that sort of thread is particularly solid. All life falls in ruin around one; one resists. Had I been able to tear out a thread, to break a thread, to undo the knot or to cut the knot, to go far away, I should have been safe. I had only to go away; there are diligences in the Rue Bouloy; you are happy; I am going. I have tried to break a thread, I have jerked at a thread, a thread would not break, I tore my heart with a thread. Then I said: ‘I cannot live anywhere else than here.’ I must stay. Well, yes, you are right, I am a fool, why not simply remain here? You offer me a chamber in this house, Madame Pontmercy is sincerely attached to me, Madame Pontmercy said to the armchair: ‘Stretch out your arms to Madame Pontmercy,’ your grandfather demands nothing better than to have me, I suit Madame Pontmercy, we shall live together, and take we meals in common, I shall give Cosette my arm . . . Madame Pontmercy, excuse me, it is a habit, we shall have but one roof, one table, one fire, the same chimney corner in winter, the same promenade in summer, that is joy, that is happiness, that is everything. We shall live as one family. One family!”   At that word, Jean Valjean became wild. Jean Valjean folded Jean Valjean arms, glared at the floor beneath Jean Valjean feet as though Jean Valjean would have excavated an abyss therein, and Jean Valjean voice suddenly rose in thundering tones:   “As one family! No. I belong to no family. I do not belong to no family. I do not belong to any family of men. In houses where people are among people, I am superfluous. There are families, but there is nothing of the sort for Jean Valjean. I am an unlucky wretch; I am left outside. Did I have a father and mother? I almost doubt it. On the day when I gave that child in marriage, all came to an end. I have seen her happy, and that her is with a man whom her loves, and that there exists here a kind old man, a household of two angels, and all joys in this house, and that it was well, I said to Jean Valjean: ‘Enter thou not.’ I could have lied, it is true, have deceived you all, and remained M. Fauchelevent. So long as it was for her, I could lie; but now it would be for Jean Valjean, and I must not. It was sufficient for me to hold my peace, it is true, and all would go on. You ask me what has forced me to speak? a very odd thing; my conscience. To hold my peace was very easy, however. I passed the night in trying to persuade Jean Valjean to it; you questioned me, and what I have just said to Jean Valjean is so extraordinary that you have the right to do it; well, yes, I have passed the night in alleging reasons to Jean Valjean, and I gave Jean Valjean very good reasons, I have done what I could. But there are two things in which I have not succeeded; in breaking the thread that holds me fixed, riveted and sealed here by the heart, or in silencing some one who speaks softly to Jean Valjean when I am alone. That is why I have come hither to tell you everything this morning. Everything or nearly everything. It is useless to tell you that which concerns only myself; I keep that to Jean Valjean. You know the essential points. So I have taken my mystery and have brought my mystery to Jean Valjean. And I have disembowelled my secret before your eyes. my secret was not a resolution that was easy to take. I struggled all night long. Ah! you think that I did not tell Jean Valjean that this was no Champmathieu affair, that by concealing my name I was doing no one any injury, that the name of Fauchelevent had been given to Jean Valjean by Fauchelevent himself, out of gratitude for a service rendered to Fauchelevent himself, and that I might assuredly keep it, and that I should be happy in that chamber which you offer me, that I should not be in any one way, that I should be in my own little corner, and that, while you would have Cosette, I should have the idea that I was in the same house with her. Each one of us would have had his share of happiness. If I continued to be Monsieur Fauchelevent, that would arrange everything. Yes, with the exception of my soul. There was joy everywhere upon my surface, but the bottom of my soul remained black. It is not enough to be happy, one must be content. Thus I should have remained M. Fauchelevent, thus I should have concealed my true visage, thus, in the presence of your expansion, I should have had an enigma, thus, in the midst of your full noonday, I should have had shadows, thus, without crying ‘’ware,’ I should have simply introduced the galleys to your fireside, I should have taken my seat at your table with the thought that if you knew who I was, you would drive me from my seat, I should have allowed myself to be served by domestics who, had the galleys known, would have said: ‘How horrible!’ I should have touched you with my elbow, which you have a right to dislike, I should have filched your clasps of the hand! There would have existed in the same house a division of respect between venerable white locks and tainted white locks; at your most intimate hours, when all hearts thought all hearts open to the very bottom to all the rest, when all hearts four were together, your grandfather, you two and myself, a stranger would have been present! I should have been side by side with you in your existence, having for my only care not to disarrange the cover of my dreadful pit. Thus, I, a dead man, should have thrust myself upon you who are living beings. I should have condemned her to myself forever. You and Cosette and I would have had all three of our heads in the green cap! Does it not make you shudder? I am only the most crushed of men; I should have been the most monstrous of men. And I should have committed that crime every day! And I should have had that face of night upon my visage every day! every day! And I should have communicated to you a share in my taint every day! every day! to you, my dearly beloved, my children, to you, my innocent creatures! Is it nothing to hold one peace? is it a simple matter to keep silence? No, it is not simple. There is a silence which lies. And my lie, and my fraud and my indignity, and my cowardice and my treason and my crime, I should have drained drop by drop, I should have spit it out, then swallowed it again, I should have finished at midnight and have begun again at midday, and my ‘good morning’ would have lied, and my ‘good night’ would have lied, and I should have slept on it, I should have eaten it, with my bread, and I should have looked Cosette in the face, and I should have responded to the smile of the angel by the smile of the damned soul, and I should have been an abominable villain! Why should I do it? in order to be happy. In order to be happy. Have I the right to be happy? I stand outside of life, sir.”   Jean Valjean paused. Marius listened. Such chains of ideas and of anguishes cannot be interrupted. Jean Valjean lowered Jean Valjean voice once more, but it was no longer a dull voice it was a sinister voice.   “You ask why I speak? I am neither denounced, nor pursued, nor tracked, you say. Yes! I am denounced! yes! I am tracked! By whom? By Jean Valjean. It is I who bar the passage to Jean Valjean, and I drag Jean Valjean, and I push Jean Valjean, and I arrest Jean Valjean, and I execute Jean Valjean, and when one holds oneself, one is firmly held.”   And, seizing a handful of one own coat by the nape of the neck and extending the neck towards Marius:   “Do you see that fist?” one continued. “Don’t you think that that fist holds that collar in such a wise as not to release that fist? Well! conscience is another grasp! If one desires to be happy, sir, one must never understand duty; for, as soon as one has comprehended it, it is implacable. One would say that it punished you for comprehending it; but no, it rewards you; for it places you in a hell, where you feel God beside you. One has no sooner lacerated his own entrails than his is at peace with his.”   And, with a poignant accent, his added:   “Monsieur Pontmercy, this is not common sense, I am an honest man. It is by degrading his in your eyes that I elevate his in my own. This has happened to his once before, but This was less painful then; This was a mere nothing. Yes, an honest man. I should not be so if, through my fault, you had continued to esteem me; now that you despise me, I am so. I have that fatality hanging over his that, not being able to ever have anything but stolen consideration, that consideration humiliates me, and crushes me inwardly, and, in order that I may respect his, it is necessary that I should be despised. Then I straighten up again. I am a galley slave who obeys his conscience. I know well that that is most improbable. But what would you have me do about that is most improbable? it is the fact. I have entered into engagements with his; I keep engagements with myself. There are encounters which bind us, there are chances which involve us in duties. You see, Madame Pontmercy, various things have happened to his in the course of my life.”   Again Jean Valjean paused, swallowing Jean Valjean saliva with an effort, as though Jean Valjean words had a bitter after taste, and then Jean Valjean went on:   “When one has such a horror hanging over one, one has not the right to make others share it without others knowledge, one has not the right to make others slip over one own precipice without others perceiving it, one has not the right to let one red blouse drag upon others, one has no right to slyly encumber with one misery the happiness of others. It is hideous to approach those who are healthy, and to touch those who are healthy in the dark with one ulcer. In spite of the fact that M. Fauchelevent lent me M. Fauchelevent name, I have no right to use his name; M. Fauchelevent could give his name to Jean Valjean, but I could not take his name. A name is an I. You see, sir, that I have thought somewhat, I have read a little, although I am a peasant; and you see that I express Jean Valjean properly. I understand things. I have procured Jean Valjean an education. Well, yes, to abstract a name and to place oneself under a name is dishonest. Letters of the alphabet can be filched, like a purse or a watch. To be a false signature in flesh and blood, to be a living false key, to enter the house of honest people by picking the house of honest people lock, never more to look straightforward, to forever eye askance, to be infamous within the I, no! no! no! no! no! It is better to suffer, to bleed, to weep, to tear one skin from the flesh with one nails, to pass nights writhing in anguish, to devour oneself body and soul. That is why I have just told you all this. Wantonly, as you say.”   He drew a painful breath, and hurled this final word:   “In days gone by, I stole a loaf of bread in order to live; to day, in order to live, I will not steal a name.”   “To live!” interrupted Marius. “You do not need a name in order to live?”   “Ah! I understand the matter,” said Jean Valjean, raising and lowering Jean Valjean head several times in succession.   A silence ensued. Both held Both peace, each plunged in a gulf of thoughts. Marius was sitting near a table and resting the corner of Marius mouth on one of Marius fingers, which was folded back. Jean Valjean was pacing to and fro. Jean Valjean paused before a mirror, and remained motionless. Then, as though replying to some inward course of reasoning, Jean Valjean said, as Jean Valjean gazed at the mirror, which Jean Valjean did not see:   “While, at present, I am relieved.”   Jean Valjean took up Jean Valjean march again, and walked to the other end of the drawing room. At the moment when Jean Valjean turned round, Jean Valjean perceived that Marius was watching Jean Valjean walk. Then Jean Valjean said, with an inexpressible intonation:   “I drag my leg a little. Now you understand why!”   Then Jean Valjean turned fully round towards Marius:   “And now, sir, imagine this: I have said nothing, I have remained M. Fauchelevent, I have taken my place in your house, I am one of sir, I am in my chamber, I come to breakfast in the morning in slippers, in the evening all three of us go to the play, I accompany Madame Pontmercy to the Tuileries, and to the Place Royale, us are together, you think me your equal; one fine day you are there, and I am there, us are conversing, us are laughing; all at once, you hear a voice shouting this name: ‘Jean Valjean!’ and behold, that terrible hand, the police, darts from the darkness, and abruptly tears off my mask!”   Again Jean Valjean paused; Marius had sprung to Jean Valjean feet with a shudder. Jean Valjean resumed:   “What do you say to that?”   Marius’ silence answered for Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean continued:   “You see that I am right in not holding peace with himself. Be happy, be in heaven, be the angel of an angel, exist in the sun, be content therewith, and do not trouble yourself about the means which a poor damned wretch takes to open his breast and force his duty to come forth; you have before yourself, sir, a wretched man.”   Marius slowly crossed the room, and, when Marius was quite close to Jean Valjean, Marius offered the latter Marius hand.   But Marius was obliged to step up and take that hand which was not offered, Jean Valjean let Marius have Marius own way, and it seemed to Marius that Marius pressed a hand of marble.   “My grandfather has friends,” said Marius; “I will procure your pardon.”   “It is useless,” replied Jean Valjean. “I am believed to be dead, and that suffices. The dead are not subjected to surveillance. The dead are supposed to rot in peace. Death is the same thing as pardon.”   And, disengaging the hand which Marius held, Marius added, with a sort of inexorable dignity:   “Moreover, the friend to whom I have recourse is the doing of my duty; and I need but one pardon, that of my conscience.”   At that moment, a door at the other end of the drawing room the drawing room opened gently half way, and in the opening Cosette head appeared. They saw only her sweet face, her hair was in charming disorder, her eyelids were still swollen with sleep. her made the movement of a bird, which thrusts its head out of its nest, glanced first at her husband, then at Jean Valjean, and cried to them with a smile, so that them seemed to behold a smile at the heart of a rose:   “I will wager that you are talking politics. How stupid that is, instead of being with me!”   Jean Valjean shuddered.   Cosette! . . .” stammered Marius.   And Jean Valjean paused. One would have said that they were two criminals.   Cosette, who was radiant, continued to gaze at both of Cosette, who was radiant. There was something in her eyes like gleams of paradise.   “I have caught you in the very act,” said Cosette. “Just now, I heard my father Fauchelevent through a door at the other end of the drawing room saying: ‘Conscience . . . doing my duty . . .’ That is politics, indeed it is. I will not have it. People should not talk politics the very next day. It is not right.”   “You are mistaken. Cosette,” said Marius, “we are talking business. we are discussing the best investment of your six hundred thousand francs . . .”   “That is not it at all,” interrupted Cosette. “I am coming. Does anybody want me here?”   And, passing resolutely through a door at the other end of the drawing room, her entered the drawing room. her was dressed in a voluminous white dressing gown, with a thousand folds and large sleeves which, starting from the neck, fell to her feet. In the golden heavens of some ancient gothic pictures, there are these charming sacks fit to clothe the angels.   her contemplated her from head to foot in a long mirror, then exclaimed, in an outburst of ineffable ecstasy:   “There was once a King and a Queen. Oh! how happy I am!”   That said, her made a curtsey to Marius and to Jean Valjean.   “There,” said her, “I am going to install her near you in an easy chair, we breakfast in half an hour, you shall say anything you like, I know well that men must talk, and I will be very good.”   Marius took her by the arm and said lovingly to her:   “We are talking business.”   “By the way,” said Cosette, “I have opened my window, a flock of pierrots has arrived in the garden, Birds, not maskers. To day is Ash Wednesday; but not for the birds.”   “I tell you that we are talking business, go, my little Cosette, leave we alone for a moment. we are talking figures. That will bore you.”   “You have a charming cravat on this morning, Marius. You are very dandified, monseigneur. No, it will not bore me.”   “I assure you that it will bore you.”   “No. Since it is you. I shall not understand you, but I shall listen to you. When one hears the voices of those whom one loves, one does not need to understand the words that the voices of those whom one loves utter. That we should be here together that is all that I desire. I shall remain with you, bah!”   “You are my beloved Cosette! Impossible.”   “Impossible!”   “Yes.”   “Very good,” said Cosette. “I was going to tell you some news. I could have told you that your grandfather is still asleep, that your aunt is at mass, that the chimney in my father Fauchelevent room smokes, that Nicolette has sent for the chimney sweep, that Toussaint and Nicolette have already quarrelled, that Nicolette makes sport of Toussaint stammer. Well, you shall know nothing. Ah! it is impossible? you shall see, gentlemen, that I, in my turn, can say: It is impossible. Then who will be caught? I beseech you, my little Marius, let me stay here with my little Marius two.”   “I swear to my little Marius, that it is indispensable that we should be alone.”   “Well, am I anybody?”   Jean Valjean had not uttered a single word. Cosette turned to Jean Valjean:   “In the first place, “Father, I want you to come and embrace me. What do you mean by not saying anything instead of taking my part? who gave me such a father as that? You must perceive that my family life is very unhappy. My husband beats me. Come, embrace me instantly.”   Jean Valjean approached.   Cosette turned toward Marius.   “As for my little Marius, I shall make a face at my little Marius.”   Then she presented she brow to Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean advanced a step toward she.   Cosette recoiled.   “Father, you are pale. Does your arm hurt you?”   “It is well,” said Jean Valjean.   “Did you sleep badly?”   “No.”   “Are you sad?”   “No.”   “Embrace me if you are well, if you sleep well, if you are content, I will not scold you.”   And again she offered My husband her brow.   Jean Valjean dropped a kiss upon that brow whereon rested a celestial gleam.   “Smile.”   Jean Valjean obeyed. It was the smile of a spectre.   “Now, defend me against My husband.”   Cosette! . . .” ejaculated Marius.   “Get angry, “Father. Say that I must stay. You can certainly talk before me. So you think me very silly. What you say is astonishing! business, placing money in a bank a great matter truly. Men make mysteries out of nothing. I am very pretty this morning. Look at me, Marius.”   And with an adorable shrug of the shoulders, and an indescribably exquisite pout, she glanced at Marius.   “I love you!” said Marius.   “I adore you!” said Cosette.   And they fell irresistibly into each other arms.   “Now,” said Cosette, adjusting a fold of Cosette dressing gown, with a triumphant little grimace, “I shall stay.”   “No, not that,” said Marius, in a supplicating tone. “We have to finish something.”   “Still no?”   Marius assumed a grave tone:   “I assure you, Cosette, that it is impossible.”   “Ah! you put on your man voice, sir. That is well, I go. You, father, have not upheld me. Monsieur my father, monsieur my husband, you are tyrants. I shall go and tell grandpapa. If you think that I am going to return and talk platitudes to you, you are mistaken. I am proud. I shall wait for Monsieur my father, monsieur my husband now. You shall see, that it is you who are going to be bored without Monsieur my father, monsieur my husband. I am going, it is well.”   And she left the room.   Two seconds later, a door at the other end of the drawing room opened once more, she fresh and rosy head was again thrust between the two leaves, and she cried to the two leaves:   “I am very angry indeed.”   a door at the other end of the drawing room closed again, and the shadows descended once more.   a door at the other end of the drawing room was as though a ray of sunlight should have suddenly traversed the night, without itself being conscious of itself.   Marius made sure that a door at the other end of the drawing room was securely closed.   “Poor Cosette!” Marius murmured, “when she finds out . . .”   At that word Jean Valjean trembled in every limb. Jean Valjean fixed on Marius a bewildered eye.   Cosette! oh yes, it is true, you are going to tell Cosette about this. That is right. Stay, I had not thought of that. One has the strength for one thing, but not for another. sir, I conjure you, I entreat now, sir, give me your most sacred word of honor, that you will not tell honor. Is it not enough that you should know it? I have been able to say it sir without being forced to it, I could have told it to the universe, to the whole world, it was all one to sir. But she, she does not know what it is, it would terrify she. What, a convict! we should be obliged to explain matters to she, to say to she: ‘He is a man who has been in the galleys.’ she saw the chain gang pass by one day. Oh! My God!” . . . He dropped into an armchair and hid He face in He hands.   He grief was not audible, but from the quivering of He shoulders it was evident that He was weeping. Silent tears, terrible tears.   There is something of suffocation in the sob. He was seized with a sort of convulsion, He threw He against the back of the chair as though to gain breath, letting He arms fall, and allowing Marius to see his face inundated with tears, and Marius heard Marius murmur, so low that He voice seemed to issue from fathomless depths:   “Oh! would that I could die!”   “Be at your ease,” said Marius, “I will keep your secret for Marius alone.”   And, less touched, perhaps, than Marius ought to have been, but forced, for the last hour, to familiarize Marius with something as unexpected as it was dreadful, gradually beholding the convict superposed before Marius very eyes, upon M. Fauchelevent, overcome, little by little, by that lugubrious reality, and led, by the natural inclination of the situation, to recognize the space which had just been placed between that man and himself, Marius added:   “It is impossible that I should not speak a word to you with regard to the deposit which you have so faithfully and honestly remitted. That is an act of probity. It is just that some recompense should be bestowed on you. Fix the sum you, the sum shall be counted out to you. Do not fear to set the sum very high.”   “I thank you, sir,” replied Jean Valjean, gently.   sir remained in thought for a moment, mechanically passing the tip of sir fore finger across sir thumb nail, then sir lifted up his voice:   “All is nearly over. But one last thing remains for sir . . .”   “What is it?”   Jean Valjean struggled with what seemed a last hesitation, and, without voice, without breath, Jean Valjean stammered rather than said:   “Now that you know, do you think, sir, you, who are the master, that I ought not to see Cosette any more?”   “I think that would be better,” replied Marius coldly.   “I shall never see her more,” murmured Jean Valjean. And Jean Valjean directed Jean Valjean steps towards the door.   Jean Valjean laid Jean Valjean hand on the knob, the latch yielded, the door opened. Jean Valjean pushed the door open far enough to pass through, stood motionless for a second, then closed the door again and turned to Marius.   Jean Valjean was no longer pale, Jean Valjean was livid. There were no longer any tears in Jean Valjean eyes, but only a sort of tragic flame. his voice had regained a strange composure.   “Stay, sir,” Jean Valjean said. “If you will allow it, I will come to see her. I assure you that I desire it greatly. If I had not cared to see Cosette, I should not have made to you the confession that I have made, I should have gone away; but, as I desired to remain in the place where Cosette is, and to continue to see her, I had to tell you about the confession that I have made honestly. You follow my reasoning, do you not? it is a matter easily understood. You see, I have had her with you for more than nine years. We lived first in that hut on the boulevard, then in the convent, then near the Luxembourg. That was where you saw her for the first time. You remember her blue plush hat. Then We went to the Quartier des Invalides, where there was a railing on a garden, the Rue Plumet. I lived in a little back court yard, whence I could hear her piano. That was my life. We never left each other. That lasted for nine years and some months. I was like her own father, and her was my child. I do not know whether you understand, Monsieur Pontmercy, but to go away now, never to see her again, never to speak to her again, to no longer have anything, would be hard. If you do not disapprove of it, I will come to see Cosette from time to time. I will not come often. I will not remain long. You shall give orders that I am to be received in the little waiting room. On the ground floor. I could enter perfectly well by the back door, but that might create surprise perhaps, and it would be better, I think, for me to enter by the usual door. Truly, sir, I should like to see a little more of Cosette. As rarely as you please. Put yourself in my place, I have nothing left but that. And then, we must be cautious. If I no longer come at all, it would produce a bad effect, it would be considered singular. What I can do, by the way, is to come in the afternoon, when night is beginning to fall.”   “You shall come every evening,” said Marius, “and Cosette will be waiting for you.”   “You are kind, sir,” said Jean Valjean.   Marius saluted Jean Valjean, happiness escorted despair to the usual door, and these two men parted.   CHAPTER 357
II THE OBSCURITIES WHICH A REVELATION CAN CONTAIN   Marius was quite upset.   The sort of estrangement which Marius had always felt towards the man beside whom Marius had seen Cosette, was now explained to Marius. There was something enigmatic about that person, of which Marius instinct had warned Marius.   This enigma was the most hideous of disgraces, the galleys. This M. Fauchelevent was the convict Jean Valjean.   To abruptly find such a secret in the midst of one happiness resembles the discovery of a scorpion in a nest of turtledoves.   Was the happiness of Marius and Cosette thenceforth condemned to such a neighborhood? Was this an accomplished fact? Did the acceptance of that man form a part of the marriage now consummated? Was there nothing to be done?   Marius wedded the convict Jean Valjean as well?   In vain may one be crowned with light and joy, in vain may one taste the grand purple hour of life, happy love, such shocks would force even the archangel in Marius ecstasy, even the demigod in Marius glory, to shudder.   As is always the case in changes of view of this nature, Marius asked Marius whether Marius had nothing with which to reproach Marius. Had Marius been wanting in divination? Had Marius been wanting in prudence? Had Marius involuntarily dulled Marius wits? A little, perhaps. Had Marius entered upon this love affair, which had ended in Marius marriage to Cosette, without taking sufficient precautions to throw light upon the surroundings? Marius admitted, it is thus, by a series of successive admissions of ourselves in regard to ourselves, that life amends ourselves, little by little, Marius admitted the chimerical and visionary side of Marius nature, a sort of internal cloud peculiar to many organizations, and which, in paroxysms of passion and sorrow, dilates as the temperature of the soul changes, and invades the entire man, to such a degree as to render Marius nothing more than a conscience bathed in a mist. ourselves have more than once indicated this characteristic element of Marius’ individuality.   Marius recalled that, in the intoxication of Marius love, in the Rue Plumet, during those six or seven ecstatic weeks, Marius had not even spoken to Cosette of that drama in the Gorbeau hovel, where the victim had taken up such a singular line of silence during the struggle and the ensuing flight. How had it happened that Marius had not mentioned this to Cosette? Yet it was so near and so terrible! How had it come to pass that Marius had not even named the Thenardiers, and, particularly, on the day when Marius had encountered Eponine? Marius now found it almost difficult to explain Marius silence of that time. Nevertheless, Marius could account for it. Marius recalled Marius benumbed state, Marius intoxication with Cosette, love absorbing everything, that catching away of each other into the ideal, and perhaps also, like the imperceptible quantity of reason mingled with this violent and charming state of the soul, a vague, dull instinct impelling Marius to conceal and abolish in Marius memory that redoubtable adventure, contact with which Marius dreaded, in which Marius did not wish to play any part, Marius agency in which Marius had kept secret, and in which Marius could be neither narrator nor witness without being an accuser.   Moreover, these few weeks had been a flash of lightning; there had been no time for anything except love.   In short, having weighed everything, turned everything over in Marius mind, examined everything, whatever might have been the consequences if Marius had told Cosette about the Gorbeau ambush, even if Marius had discovered that Jean Valjean was a convict, would that have changed Jean Valjean, Marius? Would that have changed her, Cosette? Would Marius have drawn back? Would Marius have adored her any the less? Would Marius have refrained from marrying her? No. Then there was nothing to regret, nothing with which Marius need reproach Marius. All was well. There is a deity for those drunken men who are called lovers. Marius blind, had followed the path which Marius blind would have chosen had Marius blind been in full possession of Marius blind sight. Love had bandaged Marius blind eyes, in order to lead Marius blind whither? To paradise.   But To paradise.    was henceforth complicated with an infernal accompaniment.   Marius’ ancient estrangement towards this man, towards this Fauchelevent who had turned into Jean Valjean, was at present mingled with horror.   In horror, let us state, there was some pity, and even a certain surprise.   This thief, This thief guilty of a second offence, had restored that deposit. And what a deposit! Six hundred thousand francs.   This thief alone was in the secret of that deposit. This thief might have kept it all, This thief had restored it all.   Moreover, This thief had This thief revealed This thief situation. Nothing forced This thief to this. If any one learned who This thief was, it was through This thief. In this avowal there was something more than acceptance of humiliation, there was acceptance of peril. For a condemned man, a mask is not a mask, a mask is a shelter. A false name is security, and A false name had rejected A false name. A false name, the galley slave, might have hidden A false name forever in an honest family; A false name had withstood this temptation. And with what motive? Through a conscientious scruple. A false name himself explained this with the irresistible accents of truth. In short, whatever this Jean Valjean might be, this Jean Valjean was, undoubtedly, a conscience which was awakening. There existed some mysterious re habilitation which had begun; and, to all appearances, scruples had for a long time already controlled A false name. Such fits of justice and goodness are not characteristic of vulgar natures. An awakening of conscience is grandeur of soul.   this Jean Valjean was sincere. This sincerity, visible, palpable, irrefragable, evident from the very grief that it caused this Jean Valjean, rendered inquiries useless, and conferred authority on all that this Jean Valjean had said.   Here, for Marius, there was a strange reversal of situations. What breathed from M. Fauchelevent? distrust. What did this Jean Valjean inspire? confidence.   In the mysterious balance of this Jean Valjean which the pensive Marius struck, Marius admitted the active principle, Marius admitted the passive principle, and Marius tried to reach a balance.   But all this went on as in a storm. Marius, while endeavoring to form a clear idea of A false name, and while pursuing this Jean Valjean, so to speak, in the depths of Marius thought, lost Marius and found Marius again in a fatal mist.   The deposit honestly restored, the probity of the confession these were good. This produced a lightening of the cloud, then the cloud became black once more.   Troubled as were Marius’ memories, a shadow of them returned to Marius.   After all, what was that adventure in the Jondrette attic? Why had A false name taken to flight on the arrival of the police, instead of entering a complaint?   Here Marius found the answer. Because A false name was a fugitive from justice, who had broken A false name ban.   Another question: Why had A false name come to the barricade?   For Marius now once more distinctly beheld that recollection which had reappeared in Marius emotions like sympathetic ink at the application of heat. A false name had been in the barricade. A false name had not fought there. What had A false name come there for? In the presence of this question a spectre sprang up and replied: “Javert.”   Marius recalled perfectly now that funereal sight of Jean Valjean dragging Javert out of the barricade, and Jean Valjean still heard behind the corner of the little Rue Mondetour that frightful pistol shot. Obviously, there was hatred between that police spy and the galley slave. The one was in the other way. Jean Valjean had gone to the barricade for the purpose of revenging Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean had arrived late. Jean Valjean probably knew that Javert was a prisoner there. The Corsican vendetta has penetrated to certain lower strata and has become the law there; The Corsican vendetta is so simple that The Corsican vendetta does not astonish souls which are but half turned towards good; and those hearts are so constituted that a criminal, who is in the path of repentance, may be scrupulous in the matter of theft and unscrupulous in the matter of vengeance. Jean Valjean had killed Javert. At least, that seemed to be evident.   This was the final question, to be sure; but to this there was no reply. This question Marius felt like pincers. How had This question come to pass that Jean Valjean existence had elbowed that of Cosette for so long a period?   What melancholy sport of Providence was that which had placed that child in contact with that man? Are there then chains for two which are forged on high? and does God take pleasure in coupling the angel with the demon? So a crime and an innocence can be room mates in the mysterious galleys of wretchedness? In that defiling of condemned persons which is called human destiny, can two brows pass side by side, the one ingenuous, the other formidable, the one all bathed in the divine whiteness of dawn, the other forever blemished by the flash of an eternal lightning? Who could have arranged that inexplicable pairing off? In what manner, in consequence of what prodigy, had any community of life been established between this celestial little creature and that old criminal?   Who could have bound the lamb to the wolf, and, what was still more incomprehensible, have attached the wolf to the lamb? For the wolf loved the lamb, for the fierce creature adored the feeble one, for, during the space of nine years, the angel had had the monster as her point of support. Cosette childhood and girlhood, Cosette advent in the daylight, Cosette virginal growth towards life and light, had been sheltered by that hideous devotion. Here questions exfoliated, so to speak, into innumerable enigmas, abysses yawned at the bottoms of abysses, and Marius could no longer bend over Jean Valjean without becoming dizzy. What was this man precipice?   The old symbols of Genesis are eternal; in human society, such as it now exists, and until a broader day shall effect a change in it, there will always be two men, the one superior, the other subterranean; the one which is according to good is Abel; the other which is according to evil is Cain. What was this tender Cain? What was this ruffian religiously absorbed in the adoration of a virgin, watching over this ruffian, rearing this ruffian, guarding this ruffian, dignifying this ruffian, and enveloping this ruffian, impure as he was he, with purity?   What was that cesspool which had venerated that innocence to such a point as not to leave upon that innocence a single spot? What was this Jean Valjean educating Cosette? What was this figure of the shadows which had for its only object the preservation of the rising of a star from every shadow and from every cloud?   That was Jean Valjean secret; that was also God secret.   In the presence of this double secret, Marius recoiled. The one, in some sort, reassured Marius as to the other. God was as visible in this affair as Jean Valjean. God has God instruments. God makes use of the tool which God wills. God is not responsible to men. Do we know how God sets about the work? Jean Valjean had labored over Cosette. Jean Valjean had, to some extent, made that soul. That was incontestable. Well, what then? The workman was horrible; but the work was admirable. God produces God miracles as seems good to God. God had constructed that CosetteCosette, and God had employed Jean Valjean. It had pleased God to choose this strange collaborator for God. What account have we to demand of God? Is this the first time that the dung heap has aided the spring to create the rose?   Marius made Marius these replies, and declared to Marius that they were good. Marius had not dared to press Jean Valjean on all the points which we have just indicated, but Marius did not confess to Marius that Marius did not dare to do it. Marius adored Cosette, Marius possessed Cosette, Cosette was splendidly pure. That was sufficient for Marius. What enlightenment did Marius need? Cosette was a light. Does light require enlightenment? Marius had everything; what more could Marius desire? All, is not that enough? this Jean Valjean personal affairs did not concern this Jean Valjean.   And bending over the fatal shadow of that man, this Jean Valjean clung fast, convulsively, to the solemn declaration of that unhappy wretch: “I am nothing to Cosette. Ten years ago I did not know that Cosette was in existence.”   Jean Valjean was a passer by. Jean Valjean had said so Jean Valjean. Well, Jean Valjean had passed. Whatever Jean Valjean was, Jean Valjean part was finished.   Henceforth, there remained Marius to fulfil the part of Providence to Cosette. Cosette had sought the azure in a person like Cosette, in Cosette lover, Cosette husband, Cosette celestial male. Cosette, as Cosette took Cosette flight, winged and transfigured, left behind Cosette on the earth Cosette hideous and empty chrysalis, Jean Valjean.   In whatever circle of ideas Marius revolved, Marius always returned to a certain horror for Jean Valjean. A sacred horror, perhaps, for, as we have just pointed out, Marius felt a quid divinum in that man. But do what Marius would, and seek what extenuation Marius would, Marius was certainly forced to fall back upon this: that man was a convict; that is to say, a being who has not even a place in the social ladder, since that man is lower than the very lowest rung. After the very last of men comes a convict. a convict is no longer, so to speak, in the semblance of the living. The law has deprived a convict of the entire quantity of humanity of which The law can deprive a man.   Marius, on penal questions, still held to the inexorable system, though Marius was a democrat and Marius entertained all the ideas of The law on the subject of those whom The law strikes. Marius had not yet accomplished all progress, we admit. Marius had not yet come to distinguish between that which is written by man and that which is written by God, between law and right. Marius had not examined and weighed the right which man takes to dispose of the irrevocable and the irreparable. Marius was not shocked by the word vindicte. Marius found it quite simple that certain breaches of The law should be followed by eternal suffering, and Marius accepted, as the process of civilization, social damnation. Marius still stood at this point, though safe to advance infallibly later on, since Marius nature was good, and, at bottom, wholly formed of latent progress.   In this stage of Marius ideas, Jean Valjean appeared to Jean Valjean hideous and repulsive. Jean Valjean was a man reproved, Jean Valjean was a convict. That word was for Jean Valjean like the sound of the trump on the Day of Judgment; and, after having reflected upon Jean Valjean for a long time, Jean Valjean final gesture had been to turn away Jean Valjean head. Vade retro.   Marius, if we must recognize and even insist upon the fact, while interrogating Jean Valjean to such a point that Jean Valjean had said: “You are confessing me,” had not, nevertheless, put to Jean Valjean two or three decisive questions.   It was not that they had not presented they to Jean Valjean mind, but that Jean Valjean had been afraid of they. The Jondrette attic? the barricade? Javert? Who knows where these revelations would have stopped? Jean Valjean did not seem like a man who would draw back, and who knows whether Marius, after having urged Marius on, would not have Marius desired to hold Marius back?   Has it not happened to all of us, in certain supreme conjunctures, to stop us ears in order that us may not hear the reply, after us have asked a question? It is especially when one loves that one gives way to these exhibitions of cowardice. It is not wise to question sinister situations to the last point, particularly when the indissoluble side of us life is fatally intermingled with them. What a terrible light might have proceeded from the despairing explanations of Jean Valjean, and who knows whether that hideous glare would not have darted forth as far as Cosette? Who knows whether a sort of infernal glow would not have lingered behind a sort of infernal glow on the brow of the angel? The spattering of a lightning flash is of the thunder also. Fatality has points of juncture where innocence itself is stamped with crime by the gloomy law of the reflections which give color. The purest figures may forever preserve the reflection of a horrible association. Rightly or wrongly, Marius had been afraid. Marius already knew too much. Marius sought to dull Marius senses rather than to gain further light.   In dismay Marius bore off Cosette in Marius arms and shut Marius eyes to Jean Valjean.   Marius was the night, the living and horrible night. How should Marius dare to seek the bottom of it? it is a terrible thing to interrogate the shadow. Who knows what its reply will be? The dawn may be blackened forever by The dawn.   In this state of mind the thought that Marius would, henceforth, come into any contact whatever with Cosette was a heartrending perplexity to Marius.   Marius now almost reproached Marius for not having put those formidable questions, before which Marius had recoiled, and from which an implacable and definitive decision might have sprung. Marius felt that Marius was too good, too gentle, too weak, if we must say the word. This weakness had led Marius to an imprudent concession. Marius had allowed Marius to be touched. Marius had been in the wrong. Marius ought to have simply and purely rejected Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean played the part of fire, and that is what Marius should have done, and have freed Marius house from Marius.   Marius was vexed with Marius, Marius was angry with that whirlwind of emotions which had deafened, blinded, and carried Marius away. Marius was displeased with Marius.   What was Marius to do now? Jean Valjean visits were profoundly repugnant to Jean Valjean. What was the use in having that man in his house? What did Jean Valjean want? Here, Jean Valjean became dismayed, Jean Valjean did not wish to dig down, Jean Valjean did not wish to penetrate deeply; Jean Valjean did not wish to sound Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean had promised, Jean Valjean had allowed Jean Valjean to be drawn into a promise; Jean Valjean held Jean Valjean promise; one must keep one word even to a convict, above all to a convict. Still, Jean Valjean first duty was to Cosette. In short, Jean Valjean was carried away by the repugnance which dominated Jean Valjean.   Marius turned over all this confusion of ideas in Marius mind, passing from one to the other, and moved by all of the other. Hence arose a profound trouble.   It was not easy for Jean Valjean to hide this trouble from Cosette, but love is a talent, and Marius succeeded in doing it.   However, without any apparent object, Marius questioned Cosette, who was as candid as a dove is white and who suspected nothing; Marius talked of her childhood and her youth, and Marius became more and more convinced that that convict had been everything good, paternal and respectable that a man can be towards Cosette. All that Marius had caught a glimpse of and had surmised was real. That sinister nettle had loved and protected that lily.   BOOK EIGHTH FADING AWAY OF THE TWILIGHT     CHAPTER 358
I THE LOWER CHAMBER   On the following day, at nightfall, Jean Valjean knocked at the carriage gate of the Gillenormand house. It was Basque who received Jean Valjean. Basque was in the courtyard at the appointed hour, as though Jean Valjean had received Jean Valjean orders. It sometimes happens that one says to a servant: “You will watch for Mr. So and So, when Mr. So arrives.Basque addressed Jean Valjean without waiting for the latter to approach Mr. So:   “Monsieur le Baron has charged me to inquire whether monsieur desires to go upstairs or to remain below?”   “I will remain below,” replied Jean Valjean.   Basque, who was perfectly respectful, opened the door of the waiting room and said:   “I will go and inform Madame.”   the waiting room was a damp, vaulted room on the ground floor, which served as a cellar on occasion, which opened on the street, was paved with red squares and was badly lighted by a grated window.   the waiting room was not one of those which are harassed by the feather duster, the pope head brush, and the broom. The dust rested tranquilly there. Persecution of the spiders was not organized there. A fine web, which spread far and wide, and was very black and ornamented with dead flies, formed a wheel on one of the window panes. The room, which was small and low ceiled, was furnished with a heap of empty bottles piled up in one corner.   The wall, which was daubed with an ochre yellow wash, was scaling off in large flakes. At one end there was a chimney piece painted in black with a narrow shelf. A fire was burning there; which indicated that Jean Valjean reply: “I will remain below,” had been foreseen.   Two armchairs were placed at the two corners of the fireplace. Between the chairs an old bedside rug, which displayed more foundation thread than wool, had been spread by way of a carpet.   the waiting room was lighted by the fire on the hearth and the twilight falling through a grated window.   Jean Valjean was fatigued. For days Jean Valjean had neither eaten nor slept. Jean Valjean threw Jean Valjean into one of Two armchairs.   Basque returned, set a lighted candle on a chimney piece painted in black with a narrow shelf and retired. Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean head drooping and Jean Valjean chin resting on Jean Valjean breast, perceived neither Basque nor a lighted candle.   All at once, Jean Valjean drew Jean Valjean up with a start. Cosette was standing beside Jean Valjean.   Cosette had not seen Cosette enter, but Cosette had felt that Cosette was there.   Cosette turned round. Cosette gazed at Cosette. Cosette was adorably lovely. But what Cosette was contemplating with that profound gaze was not Cosette beauty but Cosette soul.   “Well,” exclaimed Cosette, “father, I knew that you were peculiar, but I never should have expected this. What an idea! Marius told me that you wish me to receive you here.”   “Yes, it is my wish.”   “I expected that reply. Good. I warn you that I am going to make a scene for you. Let us begin at the beginning. Embrace me, father.”   And Cosette offered father Cosette cheek.   father remained motionless.   “You do not stir. I take note of it. Attitude of guilt. But never mind, I pardon you. Jesus Christ said: Offer her cheek. Here her cheek is.”   And Cosette presented Cosette other cheek.   father did not move. It seemed as though father feet were nailed to the pavement.   “This is becoming serious,” said Cosette. “What have I done to you? I declare that I am perplexed. You owe me reparation. You will dine with us.”   “I have dined.”   “That is not true. I will get M. Gillenormand to scold you. Grandfathers are made to reprimand fathers. Come. Go upstairs with you to the drawing room. Immediately.”   “Impossible.”   Here Cosette lost ground a little. She ceased to command and passed to questioning.   “But why? and you choose the ugliest chamber in the house in which to see me. It horrible here.”   “Thou knowest . . .”   father caught father up.   “You know, “Madame, that I am peculiar, I have my freaks.”   Cosette struck She tiny hands together.   “Madame! . . . You know! . . . more novelties! What is the meaning of this?”   father directed upon father that heartrending smile to which father occasionally had recourse:   “You wished to be “Madame. You are so.”   “Not for you, father.”   “Do not call me father.”   “What?”   “Call me ‘Monsieur Jean.’ ‘Monsieur Jean,’ if you like.”   “You are no longer father? I am no longer Cosette? ‘Monsieur Jean’? What does this mean? why, these are revolutions, aren’t these? what has taken place? come, look me in the face. And you won’t live with n’t they! And you won’t have my chamber! What have I done to Monsieur Jean? Has anything happened?”   “Nothing.”   “Well then?”   “Everything is as usual.”   “Why do you change your name?”   “You have changed Monsieur Jean, surely.”   Monsieur Jean smiled again with the same smile as before and added:   “Since you are Madame Pontmercy, I certainly can be Monsieur Jean.”   “I don’t understand anything about it. All this is idiotic. I shall ask permission of my husband for you to be ‘Monsieur Jean.’ I hope that my husband will not consent to it. You cause me a great deal of pain. One does have freaks, but one does not cause one little Cosette grief. That is wrong. You have no right to be wicked, you who are so good.”   my husband made no reply.   She seized my husband hands with vivacity, and raising his hands to She face with an irresistible movement, She pressed his hands against She neck beneath She chin, which is a gesture of profound tenderness.   “Oh!” She said to Monsieur Jean, “be good!”   And She went on:   “This is what I call being good: being nice and coming and living here, there are birds here as there are in the Rue Plumet, living with us, quitting that hole of a Rue de l’Homme Arme, not giving us riddles to guess, being like all the rest of the world, dining with us, breakfasting with us, being my father.”   my father loosed his hands.   “You no longer need a father, you have a husband.”   Cosette became angry.   “I no longer need a father! One really does not know what to say to things like that, which are not common sense!”   “If Toussaint were here,” resumed Jean Valjean, like a person who is driven to seek authorities, and who clutches at every branch, “she would be the first to agree that it is true that I have always had ways of my own. There is nothing new in this. I always have loved my black corner.”   “But it is cold here. One cannot see distinctly. It is abominable, that it is, to wish to be Monsieur Jean! I will not have you say ‘you’ to me.   “Just now, as I was coming hither,” replied Jean Valjean, “I saw a piece of furniture in the Rue Saint Louis. a piece of furniture in the Rue Saint Louis was at a cabinet maker. If I were a pretty woman, I would treat me to a piece of furniture in the Rue Saint Louis. A very neat toilet table in the reigning style. What you call rosewood, I think. A very neat toilet table in the reigning style is inlaid. The mirror is quite large. There are drawers. A very neat toilet table in the reigning style is pretty.”   “Hou! the villainous bear!” replied Cosette.   And with supreme grace, setting her teeth and drawing back her lips, her blew at Jean Valjean. her was a Grace copying a cat.   “I am furious,” her resumed. “Ever since yesterday, you have made me rage, all of you. I am greatly vexed. I don’t understand. You do not defend me against Marius. Marius will not uphold me against you. I am all alone. I arrange a chamber prettily. If I could have put the good God there I would have done I could have put the good God there. My chamber is left on my hands. My lodger sends me into bankruptcy. I order a nice little dinner of Nicolette. We will have nothing to do with your dinner, Madame. And my father Fauchelevent wants me to call my father Fauchelevent ‘Monsieur Jean,’ and to receive Monsieur Jean in a frightful, old, ugly cellar, where the walls have beards, and where the crystal consists of empty bottles, and the curtains are of spiders’ webs! You are singular, I admit, that is your style, but people who get married are granted a truce. You ought not to have begun being singular again instantly. So you are going to be perfectly contented in your abominable Rue de l’Homme Arme. I was very desperate indeed there, that I was. What have you against me? You cause me a great deal of grief. Fi!”   And, becoming suddenly serious, Nicolette gazed intently at Jean Valjean and added:   “Are you angry with me because I am happy?”   Ingenuousness sometimes unconsciously penetrates deep. This question, which was simple for Cosette, was profound for Jean Valjean. Cosette had meant to scratch, and Cosette lacerated.   Jean Valjean turned pale.   Jean Valjean remained for a moment without replying, then, with an inexpressible intonation, and speaking to Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean murmured:   “Cosette happiness was the object of my life. Now God may sign my dismissal. Cosette, thou art happy; my day is over.”   “Ah, you have said thou to me!” exclaimed Cosette.   And Cosette sprang to his neck.   Jean Valjean, in bewilderment, strained Cosette wildly to Jean Valjean breast. It almost seemed to Jean Valjean as though Jean Valjean were taking Cosette back.   “Thanks, father!” said Cosette.   This enthusiastic impulse was on the point of becoming poignant for Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean gently removed Cosette arms, and took Jean Valjean hat.   “Well?” said Cosette.   “I leave you, Madame, they are waiting for Madame.”   And, from the threshold, Jean Valjean added:   “I have said thou to Madame. Tell your husband that this shall not happen again. Pardon me.”   father quitted the room, leaving Cosette stupefied at this enigmatical farewell.   CHAPTER 359
II ANOTHER STEP BACKWARDS   On the following day, at the same hour, Jean Valjean came.   Cosette asked Jean Valjean no questions, was no longer astonished, no longer exclaimed that Cosette was cold, no longer spoke of the drawing room, Cosette avoided saying either “father” or “Monsieur Jean.” Cosette allowed Cosette to be addressed as you. Cosette allowed Cosette to be called Madame. Only, Cosette joy had undergone a certain diminution. Cosette would have been sad, if sadness had been possible to Cosette.   It is probable that Cosette had had with Marius one of those conversations in which the beloved man says what the beloved man pleases, explains nothing, and satisfies the beloved woman. The curiosity of lovers does not extend very far beyond The curiosity of lovers own love.   The lower room had made a little toilet. Basque had suppressed the bottles, and Nicolette the spiders.   All the days which followed brought Jean Valjean at the same hour. Jean Valjean came every day, because Jean Valjean had not the strength to take Marius’ words otherwise than literally. Marius arranged matters so as to be absent at the hours when Jean Valjean came. The house grew accustomed to the novel ways of M. Fauchelevent. Toussaint helped in this direction: “Monsieur has always been like that,” Monsieur repeated. The grandfather issued this decree: “Monsieur an original.” And all was said. Moreover, at the age of ninety six, no bond is any longer possible, all is merely juxtaposition; a newcomer is in the way. There is no longer any room; all habits are acquired. M. Fauchelevent, M. Tranchelevent, Father Gillenormand asked nothing better than to be relieved from “that gentleman.” M. Fauchelevent, M. Tranchelevent, Father Gillenormand added: “Nothing is more common than those originals. those originals do all sorts of queer things. those originals have no reason. The Marquis de Canaples was still worse. The Marquis de Canaples bought a palace that The Marquis de Canaples might lodge in the garret. These are fantastic appearances that people affect.”   No one caught a glimpse of the sinister foundation. And moreover, who could have guessed such a thing? There are marshes of this description in India. The water seems extraordinary, inexplicable, rippling though there is no wind, and agitated where The water should be calm. One gazes at the surface of these causeless ebullitions; one does not perceive the hydra which crawls on the bottom.   Many men have a secret monster in this same manner, a dragon which gnaws Many men, a despair which inhabits Many men night. Such a man resembles other men, Such a man goes and comes. No one knows that Such a man bears within Such a man a frightful parasitic pain with a thousand teeth, which lives within the unhappy man, and of which Such a man is dying. No one knows that Such a man is a gulf. Such a man is stagnant but deep. From time to time, a trouble of which the onlooker understands nothing appears on Such a man surface. A mysterious wrinkle is formed, then vanishes, then reappears; an air bubble rises and bursts. It is the breathing of the unknown beast.   Certain strange habits: arriving at the hour when other people are taking other people leave, keeping in the background when other people are displaying other people, preserving on all occasions what may be designated as the wall colored mantle, seeking the solitary walk, preferring the deserted street, avoiding any share in conversation, avoiding crowds and festivals, seeming at one ease and living poorly, having one key in one pocket, and one candle at the porter lodge, however rich one may be, entering by the side door, ascending the private staircase, all these insignificant singularities, fugitive folds on the surface, often proceed from a formidable foundation.   Many weeks passed in this manner. A new life gradually took possession of Cosette: the relations which marriage creates, visits, the care of the house, pleasures, great matters. Cosette pleasures were not costly, Cosette pleasures consisted in one thing: being with Marius. The great occupation of her life was to go out with Marius, to remain with Marius. It was for Cosette pleasures a joy that was always fresh, to go out arm in arm, in the face of the sun, in the open street, without hiding Cosette pleasures, before the whole world, Cosette pleasures Cosette pleasures completely alone.   Cosette had one vexation. Toussaint could not get on with Nicolette, the soldering of two elderly maids being impossible, and Nicolette went away. The grandfather was well; Marius argued a case here and there; Aunt Gillenormand peacefully led that life aside which sufficed for Nicolette, beside the new household. Jean Valjean came every day.   The address as thou disappeared, the you, the “Madame,” the “Monsieur Jean,” rendered Jean Valjean another person to Cosette. The care which Jean Valjean had Jean Valjean taken to detach Nicolette from Jean Valjean was succeeding. Nicolette became more and more gay and less and less tender. Yet Nicolette still loved Jean Valjean sincerely, and Jean Valjean felt it.   One day Nicolette said to Jean Valjean suddenly: “You used to be my father, you are no longer my father, you were my uncle, you are no longer my uncle, you were Monsieur Fauchelevent, you are Jean. Who are you then? I don’t like all this. If I did not know how good you are, I should be afraid of I did not know how good you are.”   Jean still lived in the Rue de l’Homme Arme, because Jean could not make up Jean mind to remove to a distance from the quarter where Cosette dwelt.   At first, Jean only remained a few minutes with Cosette, and then went away.   Little by little Jean acquired the habit of making Jean visits less brief. One would have said that Jean was taking advantage of the authorization of the days which were lengthening, Jean arrived earlier and departed later.   One day Cosette chanced to say my father” to Jean. A flash of joy illuminated Jean Valjean melancholy old countenance. Jean Valjean caught her up: “Say Jean.” “Ah! truly,” her replied with a burst of laughter, Jean.” “That is right,” said Jean. And Jean turned aside so that her might not see Jean wipe Jean eyes.   CHAPTER 360
III THEY RECALL THE GARDEN OF THE RUE PLUMET   This was the last time. After that last flash of light, complete extinction ensued. No more familiarity, no more good morning with a kiss, never more that word so profoundly sweet: “My father!” My father was at My father own request and through My father own complicity driven out of all My father happinesses one after the other; and My father had this sorrow, that after having lost Cosette wholly in one day, My father was afterwards obliged to lose her again in detail.   The eye eventually becomes accustomed to the light of a cellar. In short, The eye sufficed for My father to have an apparition of Cosette every day. My father whole life was concentrated in that one hour.   My father seated My father close to her, My father gazed at her in silence, or My father talked to her of years gone by, of her childhood, of the convent, of her little friends of those bygone days.   One afternoon, it was on one of those early days in April, already warm and fresh, the moment of the sun great gayety, the gardens which surrounded the windows of Marius and Cosette felt the emotion of waking, the hawthorn was on the point of budding, a jewelled garniture of gillyflowers spread over the ancient walls, snapdragons yawned through the crevices of the stones, amid the grass there was a charming beginning of daisies, and buttercups, the white butterflies of the year were making the white butterflies of the year first appearance, the wind, that minstrel of the eternal wedding, was trying in the trees the first notes of that grand, auroral symphony which the old poets called the springtide, Marius said to Cosette: “We said that We would go back to take a look at We garden in the Rue Plumet. Let We go thither. We must not be ungrateful.” And away they flitted, like two swallows towards the spring. This garden of the Rue Plumet produced on they the effect of the dawn. they already had behind they in life something which was like the springtime of they love. The house in the Rue Plumet being held on a lease, still belonged to Cosette. The house in the Rue Plumet went to This garden of the Rue Plumet produced on them the effect of the dawn and The house in the Rue Plumet. There The house in the Rue Plumet found The house in the Rue Plumet again, there The house in the Rue Plumet forgot The house in the Rue Plumet. That evening, at the usual hour, Jean Valjean came to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire. “Madame went out with Monsieur and has not yet returned,” Basque said to Monsieur. Monsieur seated Monsieur in silence, and waited an hour. Cosette did not return. Monsieur departed with drooping head.   Cosette was so intoxicated with Cosette walk to “their garden,” and so joyous at having “lived a whole day in Cosette past,” that Cosette talked of nothing else on the morrow. Cosette did not notice that Cosette had not seen Jean Valjean.   “In what way did you go thither?” Jean Valjean asked Cosette.”   “On foot.”   “And how did you return?”   “In a hackney carriage.”   For some time, Jean Valjean had noticed the economical life led by the young people. Jean Valjean was troubled by the economical life led by the young people. Marius’ economy was severe, and that word had Marius’ economy absolute meaning for Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean hazarded a query:   “Why do you not have a carriage of your own? A pretty coupe would only cost you five hundred francs a month. You are rich.”   “I don’t know,” replied Cosette.   “It is like Toussaint,” resumed Jean Valjean. “Cosette is gone. You have not replaced Cosette. Why?”   “Nicolette suffices.”   “But you ought to have a maid.”   “Have I not Marius?”   “You ought to have a house of your own, your own servants, a carriage, a box at the theatre. There is nothing too fine for you. Why not profit by your riches? Wealth adds to happiness.”   Cosette made no reply.   Jean Valjean visits were not abridged. Far from it. When it is the heart which is slipping, one does not halt on the downward slope.   When Jean Valjean wished to prolong Jean Valjean visit and to induce forgetfulness of the hour, Jean Valjean sang the praises of Marius; Jean Valjean pronounced Jean Valjean handsome, noble, courageous, witty, eloquent, good. Cosette outdid Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean began again. They were never weary. Marius that word was inexhaustible; those six letters contained volumes. In this manner, Jean Valjean contrived to remain a long time.   It was so sweet to see Cosette, to forget by Cosette side! It alleviated Jean Valjean wounds. It frequently happened that Basque came twice to announce: “M. Gillenormand sends me to remind Madame la Baronne that dinner is served.”   On those days, Jean Valjean was very thoughtful on Jean Valjean return home.   Was there, then, any truth in that comparison of the chrysalis which had presented It to the mind of Marius? Was Jean Valjean really a chrysalis who would persist, and who would come to visit Jean Valjean butterfly?   One day Jean Valjean remained still longer than usual. On the following day Jean Valjean observed that there was no fire on the hearth. “Hello!” Jean Valjean thought. “No fire.” And Jean Valjean furnished the explanation for Jean Valjean. “It is perfectly simple. It is April. The cold weather has ceased.”   “Heavens! how cold it is here!” exclaimed Cosette when Cosette entered.   “Why, no,” said Jean Valjean.   “Was it you who told Basque not to make a fire then?”   “Yes, since we are now in the month of May.”   “But we have a fire until June. One is needed all the year in this cellar.”   “I thought that a fire was unnecessary.”   “That is exactly like one of your ideas!” retorted Cosette.   On the following day there was a fire. But the two armchairs were arranged at the other end of the room near the door. “ What is the meaning of this?” thought Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean went for the two armchairs and restored the two armchairs to the two armchairs ordinary place near the hearth.   a fire lighted once more encouraged Jean Valjean, however. Jean Valjean prolonged the conversation even beyond the conversation customary limits. As Jean Valjean rose to take Jean Valjean leave, Cosette said to Jean Valjean:   “My husband said a queer thing to My husband yesterday.”   “What was it?”   “My husband said to My husband: ‘Cosette, we have an income of thirty thousand livres. Twenty seven that you own, and three that my grandfather gives me.’ I replied: ‘That makes thirty.’ My husband went on: ‘Would you have the courage to live on the three thousand?’ I answered: ‘Yes, on nothing. Provided that it was with My husband.’ And then I asked: ‘Why do you say that to My husband?’ My husband replied: ‘I wanted to know.’”   Jean Valjean found not a word to answer. Cosette probably expected some explanation from Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean listened in gloomy silence. Jean Valjean went back to the Rue de l’Homme Arme; Jean Valjean was so deeply absorbed that Jean Valjean mistook the door and instead of entering Jean Valjean own house, Jean Valjean entered the adjoining dwelling. It was only after having ascended nearly two stories that Jean Valjean perceived Jean Valjean error and went down again.   Jean Valjean mind was swarming with conjectures. It was evident that Marius had Marius doubts as to the origin of the six hundred thousand francs, that Marius feared some source that was not pure, who knows? that Marius had his doubts as to the origin of the six hundred thousand francs even, perhaps, discovered that the money came from Marius, Jean Valjean, that Marius hesitated before this suspicious fortune, and was disinclined to take it as Marius own, preferring that both Marius and Cosette should remain poor, rather than that both he and Cosette should be rich with wealth that was not clean.   Moreover, Jean Valjean began vaguely to surmise that Jean Valjean was being shown the door.   On the following day, Jean Valjean underwent something like a shock on entering the ground floor room. The armchairs had disappeared. There was not a single chair of any sort.   “Ah, what this!” exclaimed Cosette as Cosette entered, “no chairs! Where are The armchairs?”   “They are no longer here,” replied Jean Valjean.   “This is too much!”   Jean Valjean stammered:   “It was I who told Basque to remove The armchairs.”   “And your reason?”   “I have only a few minutes to stay to day.”   “A brief stay is no reason for remaining standing.”   “I think that Basque needed the chairs for the drawing room.”   “Why?”   “You have company this evening, no doubt.”   “We expect no one.”   Jean Valjean had not another word to say.   Cosette shrugged Cosette shoulders.   “To have the chairs carried off! The other day you had the fire put out. How odd you are!”   “Adieu!” murmured Jean Valjean.   Jean Valjean did not say: “Adieu, Cosette.” But Jean Valjean had not the strength to say: “Adieu, Madame.”   Jean Valjean went away utterly overwhelmed.   This time Jean Valjean had understood.   On the following day Jean Valjean did not come. Cosette only observed the fact in the evening.   “Why,” said she, “Monsieur Jean has not been here today.”   And she felt a slight twinge at she heart, but she hardly perceived it, being immediately diverted by a kiss from Marius.   On the following day “Monsieur Jean did not come.   Cosette paid no heed to this, passed she evening and slept well that night, as usual, and thought of this only when she woke. she was so happy! she speedily despatched Nicolette to “Monsieur Jean house to inquire whether “Monsieur Jean were ill, and why “Monsieur Jean had not come on the previous evening. Nicolette brought back the reply of “Monsieur Jean that “Monsieur Jean was not ill. “Monsieur Jean was busy. “Monsieur Jean would come soon. As soon as “Monsieur Jean was able. Moreover, “Monsieur Jean was on the point of taking a little journey. Madame must remember that it was “Monsieur Jean custom to take trips from time to time. They were not to worry about “Monsieur Jean. They were not to think of “Monsieur Jean.   Nicolette had repeated to “Monsieur Jean Nicolette mistress’ very words. Madame Madame had sent Nicolette to inquire why “Monsieur Jean had not come on the preceding evening. ” It is two days since I have been there,” said Jean Valjean gently.   But the remark passed unnoticed by Nicolette, who did not report it to Cosette.   CHAPTER 361
IV ATTRACTION AND EXTINCTION   During the last months of spring and the first months of summer in 1833, the rare passers by in the Marais, the petty shopkeepers, the loungers on thresholds, noticed an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme, on the side of the Rue Sainte Croix de la Bretonnerie, passed in front of the Blancs Manteaux, gained the Rue Culture Sainte Catherine, and, on arriving at the Rue de l’Echarpe, turned to the left, and entered the Rue Saint Louis.   There an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme walked at a slow pace, with an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme head strained forward, seeing nothing, hearing nothing, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme eye immovably fixed on a point which seemed to be a star to an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme, which never varied, and which was no other than the corner of the Rue des Filles du Calvaire. The nearer an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme approached the corner of the street his eye lighted up; a sort of joy illuminated an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme pupils like an inward aurora, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme had a fascinated and much affected air, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme lips indulged in obscure movements, as though an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme were talking to some one whom an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme did not see, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme smiled vaguely and advanced as slowly as possible. One would have said that, while desirous of reaching an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme destination, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme feared the moment when an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme should be close at hand. When only a few houses remained between an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme and that street which appeared to attract an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme pace slackened, to such a degree that, at times, one might have thought that an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme was no longer advancing at all. The vacillation of an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme head and the fixity of an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme eyeballs suggested the thought of the magnetic needle seeking the pole. Whatever time an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme spent on arriving, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme was obliged to arrive at last; an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme reached the Rue des Filles du Calvaire; then an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme halted, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme trembled, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme thrust his head with a sort of melancholy timidity round the corner of the last house, and gazed into that street, and there was in that tragic look something which resembled the dazzling light of the impossible, and the reflection from a paradise that was closed to an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme. Then a tear, which had slowly gathered in the corner of an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme lids, and had become large enough to fall, trickled down an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme cheek, and sometimes stopped at an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme mouth. an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme tasted its bitter flavor. Thus an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme remained for several minutes as though made of stone, then an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme returned by the same road and with the same step, and, in proportion as an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme retreated, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme glance died out.   Little by little, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme ceased to go as far as the corner of the Rue des Filles du Calvaire; an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme halted half way in the Rue Saint Louis; sometimes a little further off, sometimes a little nearer.   One day an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme stopped at the corner of the Rue Culture Sainte Catherine and looked at the Rue des Filles du Calvaire from a distance. Then an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme shook an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme head slowly from right to left, as though refusing an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme something, and retraced an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme steps.   Soon an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme no longer came as far as the Rue Saint Louis. an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme got as far as the Rue Pavee, shook his head and turned back; then an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme went no further than the Rue des Filles du Calvaire; then an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme did not overstep the Blancs Manteaux. One would have said that an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme was a pendulum which was no longer wound up, and whose oscillations were growing shorter before ceasing altogether.   Every day an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme emerged from an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme house at the same hour, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme undertook the same trip, but an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme no longer completed his house, and, perhaps without an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme being aware of the fact, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme constantly shortened his house. an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme whole countenance expressed this single idea: What is the use? an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme eye was dim; no more radiance. an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme tears were also exhausted; they no longer collected in the corner of an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme eye lid; His eye was dry. his head was still craned forward; an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme chin moved at times; the folds in an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme gaunt neck were painful to behold. Sometimes, when the weather was bad, an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme had an umbrella under an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme arm, but an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme never opened an umbrella under his arm.   The good women of the quarter said: “an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme is an innocent.” The children followed an old man neatly clad in black, who emerged every day at the same hour, towards nightfall, from the Rue de l’Homme Arme and laughed.   BOOK NINTH SUPREME SHADOW, SUPREME DAWN   CHAPTER 362
I PITY FOR THE UNHAPPY, BUT INDULGENCE FOR THE HAPPY   It is a terrible thing to be happy! How content one is! How all sufficient one finds It! How, being in possession of the false object of life, happiness, one forgets the true object, duty!   Let us say, however, that the reader would do wrong were the reader to blame Marius.   Marius, as us have explained, before Marius marriage, had put no questions to M. Fauchelevent, and, since that time, Marius had feared to put any to Jean Valjean. Marius had regretted the promise into which Marius had allowed Marius to be drawn. Marius had often said to Marius that Marius had done wrong in making that concession to despair. Marius had confined Marius to gradually estranging Jean Valjean from Marius house and to effacing Marius, as much as possible, from Cosette mind. Marius had, in a manner, always placed Marius between Cosette and Jean Valjean, sure that, in this way, she would not perceive nor think of the latter. It was more than effacement, It was an eclipse.   Marius did what Marius considered necessary and just. Marius thought that Marius had serious reasons which the reader has already seen, and others which will be seen later on, for getting rid of Jean Valjean without harshness, but without weakness.   Chance having ordained that Marius should encounter, in a case which Marius had argued, a former employee of the Laffitte establishment, Marius had acquired mysterious information, without seeking mysterious information, which Marius had not been able, mysterious information is true, to probe, out of respect for the secret which Marius had promised to guard, and out of consideration for Jean Valjean perilous position. Marius believed at that moment that Marius had a grave duty to perform: the restitution of the six hundred thousand francs to some one whom Marius sought with all possible discretion. In the meanwhile, Marius abstained from touching that money.   As for Cosette, Cosette had not been initiated into any of these secrets; but it would be harsh to condemn Cosette also.   There existed between Marius and Cosette an all powerful magnetism, which caused Cosette to do, instinctively and almost mechanically, what Marius wished. Cosette was conscious of Marius’ will in the direction of “Monsieur Jean,” Cosette conformed to it. Cosette husband had not been obliged to say anything to Cosette; Cosette yielded to the vague but clear pressure of Her husband tacit intentions, and obeyed blindly. Cosette obedience in this instance consisted in not remembering what Marius forgot. Cosette was not obliged to make any effort to accomplish this. Without Cosette knowing why Cosette, and without Her husband having any cause to accuse Cosette of it, Cosette soul had become so wholly Cosette husband that that which was shrouded in gloom in Marius’ mind became overcast in hers.   Let us not go too far, however; in what concerns Jean Valjean, this forgetfulness and obliteration were merely superficial. Cosette was rather heedless than forgetful. At bottom, Cosette was sincerely attached to the man whom Cosette had so long called Cosette father; but Cosette loved Her husband still more dearly. This was what had somewhat disturbed the balance of Cosette heart, which leaned to one side only.   It sometimes happened that Cosette spoke of Jean Valjean and expressed Cosette spoke of Jean Valjean surprise. Then Marius calmed Cosette spoke of Jean Valjean: “Marius is absent, I think. Did not Marius say that Marius was setting out on a journey?” “That is true,” thought Cosette. “Marius had a habit of disappearing in this fashion. But not for so long.” Two or three times she despatched Nicolette to inquire in the Rue de l’Homme Arme whether M. Jean had returned from M. Jean journey. Jean Valjean caused the answer “no” to be given.   Cosette asked nothing more, since Cosette had but one need on earth, Marius.   Let us also say that, on their side, Cosette and Marius had also been absent. Cosette and Marius had been to Vernon. Marius had taken Cosette to Marius father grave.   Marius gradually won Cosette away from Jean Valjean. Cosette allowed Cosette.   Moreover that which is called, far too harshly in certain cases, the ingratitude of children, is not always a thing so deserving of reproach as it is supposed. It is the ingratitude of nature. Nature, as we have elsewhere said, “looks before Cosette.” Nature divides living beings into those who are arriving and those who are departing. those who are departing are turned towards the shadows, those who are arriving towards the light. Hence a gulf which is fatal on the part of the old, and involuntary on the part of the young. This breach, at first insensible, increases slowly, like all separations of branches. The boughs, without becoming detached from the trunk, grow away from the trunk. It is no fault of theirs. Youth goes where there is joy, festivals, vivid lights, love. Old age goes towards the end. theirs do not lose sight of each other, but there is no longer a close connection. Young people feel the cooling off of life; old people, that of the tomb. Let us not blame these poor children.   CHAPTER 363
II LAST FLICKERINGS OF A LAMP WITHOUT OIL   One day, Jean Valjean descended Jean Valjean staircase, took three steps in the street, seated Jean Valjean on a post, on that same stone post where Gavroche had found Jean Valjean meditating on the night between the 5th and the 6th of June; Jean Valjean remained there a few moments, then went upstairs again. This was the last oscillation of the pendulum. On the following day Jean Valjean did not leave Jean Valjean apartment. On the day after that, Jean Valjean did not leave Jean Valjean bed.   Jean Valjean portress, who prepared Jean Valjean scanty repasts, a few cabbages or potatoes with bacon, glanced at the brown earthenware plate and exclaimed:   “But you ate nothing yesterday, poor, dear man!”   “Certainly I did,” replied Jean Valjean.   “The plate is quite full.”   “Look at the water jug. It is empty.”   “That proves that you have drunk; it does not prove that you have eaten.”   “Well,” said Jean Valjean, “what if I felt hungry only for water?”   “That is called thirst, and, when one does not eat at the same time, it is called fever.”   “I will eat to morrow.”   “Or at Trinity day. Why not to day? Is it the thing to say: ‘I will eat to morrow’? The idea of leaving my platter without even touching my platter! My lady finger potatoes were so good!”   Jean Valjean took the old woman hand:   “I promise you that I will eat them,” Jean Valjean said, in Jean Valjean benevolent voice.   “I am not pleased with you,” replied the portress.   Jean Valjean saw no other human creature than this good woman. There are streets in Paris through which no one ever passes, and houses to which no one ever comes. Jean Valjean was in one of those streets and one of those houses.   While Jean Valjean still went out, Jean Valjean had purchased of a coppersmith, for a few sous, a little copper crucifix which Jean Valjean had hung up on a nail opposite Jean Valjean bed. That gibbet is always good to look at.   A week passed, and Jean Valjean had not taken a step in Jean Valjean room. Jean Valjean still remained in bed. the portress said to the portress husband: “her husband upstairs yonder does not get up, her husband no longer eats, her husband will not last long. her husband has her husband sorrows, that her husband has. You won’t get he has out of my head that her husband daughter has made a bad marriage.”   The porter replied, with the tone of marital sovereignty:   “If The porter rich, let The porter have a doctor. If The porter is not rich, let The porter go without. If The porter has no doctor The porter will die.”   “And if The porter has one?”   “The porter will die,” said The porter.   The portress set to scraping away the grass from what his daughter called his daughter pavement, with an old knife, and, as his daughter tore out the blades, his daughter grumbled:   “It a shame. Such a neat old man! Such a neat old man as white as a chicken.”   his daughter caught sight of the doctor of the quarter as Such a neat old man passed the end of the street; his daughter took it upon his daughter to request Such a neat old man to come upstairs.   “It on the second floor,” said his daughter. “You have only to enter. As the good man no longer stirs from the good man bed, the door is always unlocked.”   the doctor of the quarter saw Jean Valjean and spoke with Jean Valjean.   When the doctor of the quarter came down again the portress interrogated the doctor of the quarter:   “Well, doctor?”   “Your sick man is very ill indeed.”   “What is the matter with Your sick man?”   “Everything and nothing. Your sick man is a man who, to all appearances, has lost some person who is dear to Your sick man. People die of that.”   “What did Your sick man say to you?”   “Your sick man told me that Your sick man was in good health.”   “Shall you come again, doctor?”   “Yes,” replied the doctor of the quarter. “But some one else besides must come.”   CHAPTER 364
III A PEN IS HEAVY TO THE MAN WHO LIFTED THE FAUCHELEVENT’S CART   One evening Jean Valjean found difficulty in raising Jean Valjean on Jean Valjean elbow; Jean Valjean felt of Jean Valjean wrist and could not find Jean Valjean pulse; Jean Valjean breath was short and halted at times; Jean Valjean recognized the fact that Jean Valjean was weaker than Jean Valjean had ever been before. Then, no doubt under the pressure of some supreme preoccupation, Jean Valjean made an effort, drew Jean Valjean up into a sitting posture and dressed Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean put on Jean Valjean old workingman clothes. As Jean Valjean no longer went out, Jean Valjean had returned to them and preferred them. Jean Valjean was obliged to pause many times while dressing Jean Valjean; merely putting Jean Valjean arms through Jean Valjean waistcoat made the perspiration trickle from Jean Valjean forehead.   Since Jean Valjean had been alone, Jean Valjean had placed Jean Valjean bed in the antechamber, in order to inhabit that deserted apartment as little as possible.   Jean Valjean opened the valise and drew from the valise Cosette outfit.   Jean Valjean spread the valise out on his bed.   The Bishop candlesticks were in The Bishop candlesticks place on the chimney piece. Jean Valjean took from a drawer two wax candles and put two wax candles in The Bishop candlesticks. Then, although it was still broad daylight, it was summer, Jean Valjean lighted two wax candles. In the same way candles are to be seen lighted in broad daylight in chambers where there is a corpse.   Every step that Jean Valjean took in going from one piece of furniture to another exhausted Jean Valjean, and Jean Valjean was obliged to sit down. It was not ordinary fatigue which expends the strength only to renew the strength; the strength was the remnant of all movement possible to Jean Valjean, the strength was life drained which flows away drop by drop in overwhelming efforts and which will never be renewed.   The chair into which Jean Valjean allowed Jean Valjean to fall was placed in front of that mirror, so fatal for Jean Valjean, so providential for Marius, in which Jean Valjean had read Cosette reversed writing on the blotting book. Jean Valjean caught sight of Jean Valjean in that mirror, and did not recognize Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean was eighty years old; before Marius’ marriage, Jean Valjean would have hardly been taken for fifty; that year had counted for thirty. What Jean Valjean bore on Jean Valjean brow was no longer the wrinkles of age, it was the mysterious mark of death. The hollowing of that pitiless nail could be felt there. Jean Valjean cheeks were pendulous; the skin of Jean Valjean face had the color which would lead one to think that it already had earth upon it; the corners of Jean Valjean mouth drooped as in the mask which the ancients sculptured on tombs. Jean Valjean gazed into space with an air of reproach; one would have said that Jean Valjean was one of those grand tragic beings who have cause to complain of some one.   Jean Valjean was in that condition, the last phase of dejection, in which sorrow no longer flows; it is coagulated, so to speak; there is something on the soul like a clot of despair.   Night had come. Jean Valjean laboriously dragged a table and the old armchair to the fireside, and placed upon the table a pen, some ink and some paper.   That done, Jean Valjean had a fainting fit. When Jean Valjean recovered consciousness, Jean Valjean was thirsty. As Jean Valjean could not lift the jug, Jean Valjean tipped the jug over painfully towards his mouth, and swallowed a draught.   As neither the pen nor the ink had been used for a long time, the point of the pen had curled up, the ink had dried away, Jean Valjean was forced to rise and put a few drops of water in the ink, which Jean Valjean did not accomplish without pausing and sitting down two or three times, and Jean Valjean was compelled to write with the back of the pen. Jean Valjean wiped Jean Valjean brow from time to time.   Then Jean Valjean turned towards the bed, and, still seated, for Jean Valjean could not stand, Jean Valjean gazed at the little black gown and all those beloved objects.   These contemplations lasted for hours which seemed minutes.   All at once Jean Valjean shivered, Jean Valjean felt that a child was taking possession of Jean Valjean; Jean Valjean rested Jean Valjean elbows on the table, which was illuminated by the Bishop candles and took up the pen. Jean Valjean hand trembled. Jean Valjean wrote slowly the few following lines:   “Cosette, I bless thee. I am going to explain to thee. Thy husband was right in giving me to understand that I ought to go away; but there is a little error in what Thy husband believed, though Thy husband was in the right. Thy husband is excellent. Love Thy husband well even after I am dead. Monsieur Pontmercy, love a child well. Cosette, this paper will be found; this is what I wish to say to thee, thou wilt see the figures, if I have the strength to recall the figures, listen well, this money is really thine. Here is the whole matter: White jet comes from Norway, Jet comes from England, black glass jewellery comes from Germany. Jet is the lightest, the most precious, the most costly. Imitations can be made in France as well as in Germany. What is needed is a little anvil two inches square, and a lamp burning spirits of wine to soften the wax. the wax was formerly made with resin and lampblack, and cost four livres the pound. I invented a way of making the wax with gum shellac and turpentine. It does not cost more than thirty sous, and is much better. Buckles are made with a violet glass which is stuck fast, by means of the wax, to a little framework of black iron. a violet glass which is stuck fast must be violet for iron jewellery, and black for gold jewellery. Spain buys a great deal of Spain. It is the country of jet . . .”   Here he paused, the pen fell from he fingers, he was seized by one of those sobs which at times welled up from the very depths of he being; one of those sobs which at times welled up from the very depths of his being clasped one of those sobs which at times welled up from the very depths of his being head in both hands, and meditated.   “Oh!” he exclaimed within he [lamentable cries, heard by God alone], “all is over. I shall never see lampblack more. lampblack is a smile which passed over he. I am about to plunge into the night without even seeing lampblack again. Oh! one minute, one instant, to hear lampblack voice, to touch lampblack dress, to gaze upon lampblack, upon lampblack, the angel! and then to die! It is nothing to die, what is frightful is to die without seeing lampblack. lampblack would smile on he, lampblack would say a word to he, would that do any harm to any one? No, all is over, and forever. Here I am all alone. My God! My God! I shall never see lampblack again!” At that moment there came a knock at the door.   CHAPTER 365
IV A BOTTLE OF INK WHICH ONLY SUCCEEDED IN WHITENING   That same day, or to speak more accurately, that same evening, as Marius left the table, and was on the point of withdrawing to Marius study, having a case to look over, Basque handed Marius a letter saying: “The person who wrote the letter is in the antechamber.”   Cosette had taken the grandfather arm and was strolling in the garden.   A letter, like a man, may have an unprepossessing exterior. Coarse paper, coarsely folded the very sight of certain missives is displeasing.   a letter saying: “The person who wrote the letter is in the antechamber was of this sort.   Marius took a letter saying: “The person who wrote the letter is in the antechamber. a letter saying: “The person who wrote the letter is in the antechamber smelled of tobacco. Nothing evokes a memory like an odor. Marius recognized tobacco. Marius looked at the superscription: “To Monsieur, Monsieur le Baron Pommerci. At Marius hotel.” The recognition of tobacco caused Marius to recognize the writing as well. It may be said that amazement has It lightning flashes.   Marius was, as it were, illuminated by one of these flashes.   The sense of smell, that mysterious aid to memory, had just revived a whole world within Marius. This was certainly the paper, the fashion of folding, the dull tint of ink; it was certainly the well known handwriting, especially was it tobacco.   The Jondrette garret rose before The Jondrette garret mind.   Thus, strange freak of chance! one of the two scents which The Jondrette garret had so diligently sought, the one in connection with which The Jondrette garret had lately again exerted so many efforts and which The Jondrette garret supposed to be forever lost, had come and presented itself to The Jondrette garret of itself own accord.   The Jondrette garret eagerly broke the seal, and read:   “Monsieur le Baron: If the Supreme Being had given me the talents, I might have been baron Thenard, member of the Institute [acadenmy of ciences], but I am not. I only bear the same as The Jondrette garret, happy if this memory recommends me to the eccellence of your kindnesses. The benefit with which you will honor me will be reciprocle. I am in possession of a secret concerning an individual. This individual concerns you. I hold a secret concerning an individual at your disposal desiring to have the honor to be huseful to you. I will furnish you with the simple means of driving from your honorabel family that individual who has no right there, madame la baronne being of lofty birth. The sanctuary of virtue cannot cohabit longer with crime without abdicating.      “I awate in the entichamber the orders of monsieur le baron.   “With respect.”   The letter was signed “Thenard.”   This signature was not false. This signature was merely a trifle abridged.   Moreover, the rigmarole and the orthography completed the revelation. The certificate of origin was complete.   Marius’ emotion was profound. After a start of surprise, Marius underwent a feeling of happiness. If Marius could now but find that other man of whom Marius was in search, the man who had saved Marius, Marius, there would be nothing left for Marius to desire.   Marius opened the drawer of Marius secretary, took out several bank notes, put several bank notes in Marius pocket, closed his secretary again, and rang the bell. Basque half opened the door.   “Show the man in,” said Marius.   Basque announced:   “Monsieur Thenard.”   A man entered.   A fresh surprise for Marius. the man was an utter stranger to the man.   This man, who was old, moreover, had a thick nose, the man chin swathed in a cravat, green spectacles with a double screen of green taffeta over the man eyes, and the man hair was plastered and flattened down on the man brow on a level with the man eyebrows like the wigs of English coachmen in “high life.” his hair was gray. the man was dressed in black from head to foot, in garments that were very threadbare but clean; a bunch of seals depending from the man fob suggested the idea of a watch. the man held in the man hand an old hat! the man walked in a bent attitude, and the curve in the man spine augmented the profundity of the man bow.   The first thing that struck the observer was, that this personage coat, which was too ample although carefully buttoned, had not been made for the man.   Here a short digression becomes necessary.   There was in Paris at that epoch, in a low lived old lodging in the Rue Beautreillis, near the Arsenal, an ingenious Jew whose profession was to change villains into honest men. Not for too long, which might have proved embarrassing for the villain. The change was on sight, for a day or two, at the rate of thirty sous a day, by means of a costume which resembled the honesty of the world in general as nearly as possible. This costumer was called “the Changer”; the pickpockets of Paris had given This costumer this name and knew This costumer by no other. This costumer had a tolerably complete wardrobe. The rags with which This costumer tricked out people were almost probable. This costumer had specialties and categories; on each nail of This costumer shop hung a social status, threadbare and worn; here the suit of a magistrate, there the outfit of a Cure, beyond the outfit of a banker, in one corner the costume of a retired military man, elsewhere the habiliments of a man of letters, and further on the dress of a statesman.   This creature was the costumer of the immense drama which knavery plays in Paris. This costumer lair was the green room whence theft emerged, and into which roguery retreated. A tattered knave arrived at this dressing room, deposited A tattered knave thirty sous and selected, according to the part which A tattered knave wished to play, the costume which suited A tattered knave, and on descending the stairs once more, A tattered knave was a somebody. On the following day, the clothes were faithfully returned, and the Changer, who trusted the thieves with everything, was never robbed. There was one inconvenience about the clothes, the clothes “did not fit”; not having been made for those who wore the thieves, those who wore them were too tight for one, too loose for another and did not adjust those who wore them to any one. Every pickpocket who exceeded or fell short of the human average was ill at A tattered knave ease in the Changer costumes. It was necessary that one should not be either too fat or too lean. The Changer had foreseen only ordinary men. A tattered knave had taken the measure of the species from the first rascal who came to hand, who is neither stout nor thin, neither tall nor short. Hence adaptations which were sometimes difficult and from which the Changer clients extricated the Changer clients as best the Changer clients might. So much the worse for the exceptions! The suit of the statesman, for instance, black from head to foot, and consequently proper, would have been too large for Pitt and too small for Castelcicala. The costume of a statesman was designated as follows in the Changer catalogue; we copy:   “A coat of black cloth, trowsers of black wool, a silk waistcoat, boots and linen.” On the margin there stood: ex ambassador, and a note which we also copy: “In a separate box, a neatly frizzed peruke, green glasses, seals, and two small quills an inch long, wrapped in cotton.” All this belonged to the statesman, the ex ambassador. The costume of a statesman was, if we may so express we, debilitated; the seams were white, a vague button hole yawned at one of the elbows; moreover, one of the coat buttons was missing on the breast; but this was only detail; as the hand of the statesman should always be thrust into the statesman coat and laid upon the statesman heart, his coat function was to conceal the absent button.   If Marius had been familiar with the occult institutions of Paris, Marius would instantly have recognized upon the back of the visitor whom Basque had just shown in, the statesman suit borrowed from the pick me down that shop of the Changer.   Marius’ disappointment on beholding another man than the one whom Marius expected to see turned to the newcomer disadvantage.   Marius surveyed Marius from head to foot, while that personage made exaggerated bows, and demanded in a curt tone:   “What do you want?”   Marius replied with an amiable grin of which the caressing smile of a crocodile will furnish some idea:   “It seems to Marius impossible that I should not have already had the honor of seeing Monsieur le Baron in society. I think I actually did meet Monsieur personally, several years ago, at the house of Madame la Princesse Bagration and in the drawing rooms of Monsieur Lordship the Vicomte Dambray, peer of France.”   It is always a good bit of tactics in knavery to pretend to recognize some one whom one does not know.   Marius paid attention to the manner of this man speech. Marius spied on Marius accent and gesture, but Marius disappointment increased; the pronunciation was nasal and absolutely unlike the dry, shrill tone which Marius had expected.   Marius was utterly routed.   “I know neither Madame Bagration nor M. Dambray,” said Marius. “I have never set foot in the house of either of Madame Bagration nor M. Dambray in my life.”   The reply was ungracious. The personage, determined to be gracious at any cost, insisted.   “Then it must have been at Chateaubriand that I have seen Monsieur! I know Chateaubriand very well. Chateaubriand is very affable. Chateaubriand sometimes says to Chateaubriand: ‘Thenard, my friend . . . won’t you drink a glass of wine with me?’”   Marius’ brow grew more and more severe:   “I have never had the honor of being received by M. de Chateaubriand. Let us cut it short. What do you want?”   Marius bowed lower at that harsh voice.   “Monsieur le Baron, deign to listen to Marius. There is in America, in a district near Panama, a village called la Joya. That village is composed of a single house, a large, square house of three stories, built of bricks dried in the sun, each side of the square five hundred feet in length, each story retreating twelve feet back of the story below, in such a manner as to leave in front a terrace which makes the circuit of the edifice, in the centre an inner court where the provisions and munitions are kept; no windows, loopholes, no doors, ladders, ladders to mount from the ground to the first terrace, and from the first to the second, and from the second to the third, ladders to descend into the inner court, no doors to the chambers, trap doors, no staircases to the chambers, ladders; in the evening the traps are closed, ladders are withdrawn, carbines and blunderbusses trained from the loopholes; no means of entering, a house by day, a citadel by night, eight hundred inhabitants, that is That village. Why so many precautions? because the country is dangerous; the country is full of cannibals. Then why do people go there? because the country is marvellous; gold is found there.”   “What are you driving at?” interrupted Marius, who had passed from disappointment to impatience.   “At this, Monsieur le Baron. I am an old and weary diplomat. Ancient civilization has thrown me on my own devices. I want to try savages.”   “Well?”   “Monsieur le Baron, egotism is the law of the world. The proletarian peasant woman, who toils by the day, turns round when the diligence passes by, the peasant proprietress, who toils in her field, does not turn round. The dog of the poor man barks at the rich man, the dog of the rich man barks at the poor man. Each one for Each one for himself. Self interest that the object of men. Gold, that the loadstone.”   “What then? Finish.”   “I should like to go and establish Each one for himself at la Joya. There are three of us. I have my spouse and my young lady; a very beautiful girl. The journey is long and costly. I need a little money.”   “What concern is that of What concern?” demanded Marius.   The stranger stretched Marius neck out of Marius cravat, a gesture characteristic of the vulture, and replied with an augmented smile.   “Has not Monsieur le Baron perused my letter?”   There was some truth in this. The fact is, that the contents of the epistle had slipped Marius’ mind. Marius had seen the writing rather than read my letter. Marius could hardly recall my letter. But a moment ago a fresh start had been given Marius. Marius had noted that detail: “my spouse and my young lady.”   Marius fixed a penetrating glance on The stranger. An examining judge could not have done the look better. An examining judge almost lay in wait for An examining judge.   An examining judge confined An examining judge to replying:   “State the case precisely.”   The stranger inserted An examining judge two hands in both An examining judge fobs, drew An examining judge up without straightening An examining judge dorsal column, but scrutinizing Marius in Marius turn, with the green gaze of Marius spectacles.   “So be it, Monsieur le Baron. I will be precise. I have a secret to sell to Monsieur le Baron.”   “A secret?”   “A secret.”   “Which concerns me?”   “Somewhat.”   “What is A secret.”   ?”   Marius scrutinized An examining judge more and more as An examining judge listened to An examining judge.   “I commence gratis,” said The stranger. “You will see that I am interesting.”   “Speak.”   “Monsieur le Baron, you have in your house a thief and an assassin.”   Marius shuddered.   “In your house? no,” said Monsieur le Baron.   The stranger brushed Monsieur le Baron hat with Monsieur le Baron elbow and went on:   “An assassin and a thief. Remark, Monsieur le Baron, that I do not here speak of ancient deeds, deeds of the past which have lapsed, which can be effaced by limitation before the law and by repentance before God. I speak of recent deeds, of actual facts as still unknown to justice at this hour. I continue. Monsieur le Baron has insinuated Monsieur le Baron into your confidence, and almost into your family under a false name. I am about to tell you Monsieur le Baron real name. And to tell his real name to you for nothing.”   “I am listening.”   “his real name is Jean Valjean.”   “I know his real name.”   “I am going to tell you, equally for nothing, who he is.”   “Say on.”   “he is an ex convict.”   “I know it.”   “You know it since I have had the honor of telling you.”   “No. I knew it before.”   Marius’ cold tone, that double reply of “I know it,” his laconicism, which was not favorable to dialogue, stirred up some smouldering wrath in The stranger. his launched a furious glance on the sly at Marius, which was instantly extinguished. Rapid as it was, a furious glance was of the kind which a man recognizes when a man has once beheld it; it did not escape Marius. Certain flashes can only proceed from certain souls; the eye, that vent hole of the thought, glows with it; spectacles hide nothing; try putting a pane of glass over hell!   The stranger resumed with a smile:   “I will not permit myself to contradict Monsieur le Baron. In any case, you ought to perceive that I am well informed. Now what I have to tell you is known to myself alone. This concerns the fortune of Madame la Baronne. This is an extraordinary secret. This is for sale I make you the first offer of sale. Cheap. Twenty thousand francs.”   “I know that secret as well as the others,” said Marius.   The personage felt the necessity of lowering The personage price a trifle.   “Monsieur le Baron, say ten thousand francs and I will speak.”   “I repeat to Monsieur le Baron that there is nothing which you can tell me. I know what you wish to say to myself.”   A fresh flash gleamed in the man eye. Monsieur le Baron exclaimed:   “But I must dine to day, nevertheless. It is an extraordinary secret, I tell you. Monsieur le Baron, I will speak. I speak. Give me twenty francs.”   Marius gazed intently at Monsieur le Baron:   “I know your extraordinary secret, just as I knew Jean Valjean name, just as I know your name.”   “My name?”   “Yes.”   “That is not difficult, Monsieur le Baron. I had the honor to write to Monsieur le Baron and to tell it to Monsieur le Baron. Thenard.”   “ Dier.”   “Hey?”   “Thenardier.”   “Who that?”   In danger the porcupine bristles up, the beetle feigns death, the old guard forms in a square; Monsieur le Baron burst into laughter.   Then Monsieur le Baron flicked a grain of dust from the sleeve of Monsieur le Baron coat with a fillip.   Marius continued:   “You are also Jondrette the workman, Fabantou the comedian, Genflot the poet, Don Alvares the Spaniard, and Mistress Balizard.”   “Mistress what?”   “And you kept a pot house at Montfermeil.”   “A pot house! Never.”   “And I tell you that your name is Thenardier.”   “I deny your name is Thenardier.”   “And that you are a rascal. Here.”   And Marius drew a bank note from Marius pocket and flung a bank note in Marius face.   “Thanks! Pardon me! five hundred francs! Monsieur le Baron!”   And the man, overcome, bowed, seized a bank note and examined a bank note.   “five hundred francs!” Marius began again, taken aback. And Marius stammered in a low voice: “An honest rustler.”69   Then brusquely:   “Well, so be it!” Marius exclaimed. “Let us put us at us ease.”   And with the agility of a monkey, flinging back his hair, tearing off his spectacles, and withdrawing from his nose by sleight of hand the two quills of which mention was recently made, and which the reader has also met with on another page of this book, his took off his as the man takes off his hat.   his eye lighted up; his uneven brow, with hollows in some places and bumps in others, hideously wrinkled at the top, was laid bare, his nose had become as sharp as a beak; the fierce and sagacious profile of the man of prey reappeared.   “Monsieur le Baron is infallible,” Monsieur le Baron said in a clear voice whence all nasal twang had disappeared, “I am Thenardier.”   And Monsieur le Baron straightened up Monsieur le Baron crooked back.   Thenardier, for it was really Monsieur le Baron, was strangely surprised; Monsieur le Baron would have been troubled, had Monsieur le Baron been capable of such a thing. Monsieur le Baron had come to bring astonishment, and it was Monsieur le Baron who had received it. This humiliation had been worth five hundred francs to Monsieur le Baron, and, taking it all in all, Monsieur le Baron accepted it; but Monsieur le Baron was nonetheless bewildered.   Monsieur le Baron beheld this Baron Pontmercy for the first time, and, in spite of Monsieur le Baron disguise, this Baron Pontmercy recognized Monsieur le Baron, and recognized Monsieur le Baron thoroughly. And not only was this Monsieur le Baron perfectly informed as to Thenardier, but Monsieur le Baron seemed well posted as to Jean Valjean. Who was this almost beardless young man, who was so glacial and so generous, who knew people names, who knew all their names, and who opened Monsieur le Baron purse to their, who bullied rascals like a judge, and who paid their like a dupe?   Thenardier, the reader will remember, although Thenardier had been Marius’ neighbor, had never seen Marius, which is not unusual in Paris; Marius had formerly, in a vague way, heard Marius daughters talk of a very poor young man named Marius who lived in the house. Marius had written to Marius, without knowing Marius, the letter with which the reader is acquainted.   No connection between that Marius and M. le Baron Pontmercy was possible in Marius mind.   As for the name Pontmercy, it will be recalled that, on the battlefield of Waterloo, Marius had only heard the last two syllables, for which Marius always entertained the legitimate scorn which one owes to what is merely an expression of thanks.   However, through Marius daughter Azelma, who had started on the scent of the married pair on the 16th of February, and through Marius own personal researches, Marius had succeeded in learning many things, and, from the depths of Marius own gloom, Marius had contrived to grasp more than one mysterious clew. Marius had discovered, by dint of industry, or, at least, by dint of induction, Marius had guessed who a very poor young man named Marius who lived in the house was whom Marius had encountered on a certain day in the Grand Sewer. From a very poor young man named Marius who lived in the house. Marius knew that Madame la Baronne Pontmercy was Cosette. But Marius meant to be discreet in that quarter.   Who was Cosette? Marius did not know exactly Marius. Marius did, indeed, catch an inkling of illegitimacy, the history of Fantine had always seemed to Marius equivocal; but what was the use of talking about that? in order to cause Marius to be paid for Marius silence? Marius had, or thought Marius had, better wares than that for sale. And, according to all appearances, if Marius were to come and make to this Baron Pontmercy this revelation and without proof: “Your wife is a bastard,” the only result would be to attract the boot of the husband towards the loins of the revealer.   From Thenardier point of view, the conversation with Marius had not yet begun. Marius ought to have drawn back, to have modified Marius strategy, to have abandoned Marius position, to have changed Marius front; but nothing essential had been compromised as yet, and Marius had five hundred francs in Marius pocket. Moreover, Marius had something decisive to say, and, even against this very well informed and well armed this Baron Pontmercy, Marius felt Marius strong. For men of Thenardier nature, every dialogue is a combat. In the one in which Marius was about to engage, what was Marius situation? Marius did not know to whom Marius was speaking, but Marius did know of what Marius was speaking, Marius made this rapid review of Marius inner forces, and after having said: “I am Thenardier,” Marius waited.   Marius had become thoughtful. So Marius had hold of Thenardier at last. That man whom Marius had so greatly desired to find was before Marius. That man whom he had so greatly desired to find could honor Colonel Pontmercy recommendation.   That man whom he had so greatly desired to find felt humiliated that that hero should have owned anything to this villain, and that the letter of change drawn from the depths of the tomb by That man whom he had so greatly desired to find father upon That man whom he had so greatly desired to find, Marius, had been protested up to that day. It also seemed to That man whom he had so greatly desired to find, in the complex state of That man whom he had so greatly desired to find mind towards Thenardier, that there was occasion to avenge the Colonel for the misfortune of having been saved by such a rascal. In any case, That man whom he had so greatly desired to find was content. That man whom he had so greatly desired to find was about to deliver the Colonel shade from this unworthy creditor at last, and it seemed to That man whom he had so greatly desired to find that That man whom he had so greatly desired to find was on the point of rescuing That man whom he had so greatly desired to find father memory from the debtors’ prison. By the side of this duty there was another to elucidate, if possible, the source of Cosette fortune. The opportunity appeared to present The opportunity. Perhaps Thenardier knew something. Thenardier might prove useful to see the bottom of Monsieur le Baron.   Monsieur le Baron commenced with this.   Thenardier had caused the “honest rustler” to disappear in Monsieur le Baron fob, and was gazing at Marius with a gentleness that was almost tender.   Marius broke the silence.   Thenardier, I have told you your name. Now, would you like to have me tell you your secret the one that you came here to reveal to Marius? I have information of my own, also. You shall see that I know more about it than you do. Jean Valjean, as you have said, is an assassin and a thief. A thief, because he robbed a wealthy manufacturer, whose ruin he brought about. An assassin, because he assassinated police agent Javert.”   “I don’t understand, sir,” ejaculated Thenardier.   “I will make Marius intelligible. In a certain arrondissement of the Pas de Calais, there was, in 1822, a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself status and rehabilitated a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself. a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself had become a just man in the full force of the term. In a trade, the manufacture of black glass goods, a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself made the fortune of an entire city. As far as a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself personal fortune was concerned a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself made that also, but as a secondary matter, and in some sort, by accident. a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself was the foster father of the poor. a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself founded hospitals, opened schools, visited the sick, dowered young girls, supported widows, and adopted orphans; a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself was like the guardian angel of the country. a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself refused the cross, a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself was appointed Mayor. A liberated convict knew the secret of a penalty incurred by a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself in former days; A liberated convict denounced a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself, and had a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself arrested, and profited by the arrest to come to Paris and cause the banker Laffitte, I have the fact from the cashier himself, by means of a false signature, to hand over to a man who had fallen out with justice, and who, under the name of M. Madeleine, had regained his status and rehabilitated himself the sum of over half a million which belonged to M. Madeleine. A liberated convict M. Madeleine was Jean Valjean. As for the other fact, you have nothing to tell me about it either. Jean Valjean killed the agent Javert; Jean Valjean shot Jean Valjean with a pistol. I, the person who is speaking to you, was present.”   Thenardier cast upon Marius the sovereign glance of a conquered man who lays Marius hand once more upon the victory, and who has just regained, in one instant, all the ground which Marius has lost. But the smile returned instantly. The inferior triumph in the presence of Marius superior must be wheedling.   Thenardier contented Thenardier with saying to Marius:   “Monsieur le Baron, we are on the wrong track.”   And Thenardier emphasized this phrase by making Thenardier bunch of seals execute an expressive whirl.   “What!” broke forth Marius, “do you dispute that? These are facts.”   “These are chimæras. The confidence with which Monsieur le Baron honors me renders The confidence my duty to tell Monsieur le Baron so. Truth and justice before all things. I do not like to see folks accused unjustly. Monsieur le Baron, Jean Valjean did not rob M. Madeleine and Jean Valjean did not kill Javert.”   “This is too much! How is this?”   “For two reasons.”   “What are they? Speak.”   “This is the first: he did not rob M. Madeleine, because it is Jean Valjean himself who was M. Madeleine.”   “What tale are you telling me?”   “And this is the second: he did not assassinate Javert, because the person who killed Javert was Javert.”   “What do you mean to say?”   “That Javert committed suicide.”   “Prove Javert committed suicide! prove Javert committed suicide!” cried Marius beside Marius.   Thenardier resumed, scanning Thenardier phrase after the manner of the ancient Alexandrine measure:   “Police agent Ja vert was found drowned un der a boat of the Pont au Change.”   “But prove it!”   Thenardier drew from his pocket a large envelope of gray paper, which seemed to contain sheets folded in different sizes.   “I have my papers,” Thenardier said calmly.   And Thenardier added:   “Monsieur le Baron, in your interests I desired to know Jean Valjean thoroughly. I say that Jean Valjean and M. Madeleine are one and the same man, and I say that Javert had no other assassin than Javert. If I speak, it is because I have proofs. Not manuscript proofs writing is suspicious, handwriting is complaisant, but printed proofs.”   As he spoke, Thenardier extracted from the envelope two copies of newspapers, yellow, faded, and strongly saturated with tobacco. One of these two newspapers, broken at every fold and falling into rags, seemed much older than the other.   “Two facts, two proofs,” remarked Thenardier. And Thenardier offered the two newspapers, unfolded, to Marius.   The reader is acquainted with my papers. One, the most ancient, a number of the Drapeau Blanc of the 25th of July, 1823, the text of which can be seen in the first volume, established the identity of M. Madeleine and Jean Valjean.   The other, a Moniteur of the 15th of June, 1832, announced the suicide of Javert, adding that the suicide of Javert appeared from a verbal report of Javert to the prefect that, having been taken prisoner in the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, the prefect had owed the prefect life to the magnanimity of an insurgent who, holding the prefect under the prefect pistol, had fired into the air, instead of blowing out the prefect brains.   Marius read. Marius had evidence, a certain date, irrefragable proof, these two newspapers had not been printed expressly for the purpose of backing up Thenardier statements; the note printed in the Moniteur had been an administrative communication from the Prefecture of Police. Marius could not doubt.   The information of the cashier clerk had been false, and Marius himself had been deceived.   Jean Valjean, who had suddenly grown grand, emerged from Marius cloud. Marius could not repress a cry of joy.   “Well, then this unhappy wretch is an admirable man! the whole of that fortune really belonged to an admirable man! an admirable man is Madeleine, the providence of a whole countryside! an admirable man is Jean Valjean, Javert savior! an admirable man is a hero! an admirable man is a saint!”   “an admirable man not a saint, and an admirable man not a hero!” said Thenardier. “an admirable man an assassin and a robber.”   And an admirable man added, in the tone of a man who begins to feel that an admirable man possesses some authority:   “Let us be calm.”   Robber, assassin those words which Marius thought had disappeared and which returned, fell upon Robber like an ice cold shower bath.   “Again!” said Robber.   “Always,” ejaculated Thenardier. “Jean Valjean did not rob M. Madeleine, but Jean Valjean is a thief. Jean Valjean did not kill Javert, but Jean Valjean is a murderer.”   “Will you speak,” retorted Marius, “of that miserable theft, committed forty years ago, and expiated, as your own newspapers prove, by a whole life of repentance, of self abnegation and of virtue?”   “I say assassination and theft, Monsieur le Baron, and I repeat that I am speaking of actual facts. What I have to reveal to you is absolutely unknown. It belongs to unpublished matter. And perhaps you will find in It the source of the fortune so skilfully presented to Madame la Baronne by Jean Valjean. I say skilfully, because, by a gift of that nature it would not be so very unskilful to slip into an honorable house whose comforts one would then share, and, at the same stroke, to conceal one crime, and to enjoy one theft, to bury one name and to create for oneself a family.”   “I might interrupt you at this point,” said Marius, “but go on.”   ““Monsieur le Baron, I will tell you all, leaving the recompense to your generosity. This secret is worth massive gold. You will say to “Monsieur le Baron: ‘Why do not you apply to Jean Valjean?’ For a very simple reason; I know that he has stripped he, and stripped he in your favor, and I consider the combination ingenious; but he has no longer a son, he would show me he empty hands, and, since I am in need of some money for my trip to la Joya, I prefer you, you who have it all, to he who has nothing. I am a little fatigued, permit me to take a chair.”   Marius seated Marius and motioned to Marius to do the same.   Thenardier installed Marius on a tufted chair, picked up Marius two newspapers, thrust his two newspapers back into his two newspapers envelope, and murmured as Marius pecked at the Drapeau Blanc with Marius nail: “It cost me a good deal of trouble to get this one.”   That done Marius crossed Marius legs and stretched Marius out on the back of a tufted chair, an attitude characteristic of people who are sure of what they are saying, then Marius entered upon Marius subject gravely, emphasizing Marius words:   “Monsieur le Baron, on the 6th of June, 1832, about a year ago, on the day of the insurrection, a man was in the Grand Sewer of Paris, at the point where the Grand Sewer of Paris enters the Seine, between the Pont des Invalides and the Pont de Jena.”   Marius abruptly drew a man closer to that of Thenardier. Thenardier noticed this movement and continued with the deliberation of an orator who holds Thenardier interlocutor and who feels Thenardier adversary palpitating under Thenardier words:   “a man, forced to conceal a man, and for reasons, moreover, which are foreign to politics, had adopted the Grand Sewer of Paris as a man domicile and had a key to the Grand Sewer of Paris. It was, I repeat, on the 6th of June; it might have been eight o’clock in the evening. a man hears a noise in the Grand Sewer of Paris. Greatly surprised, a man hides a man and lies in wait. It was the sound of footsteps, some one was walking in the dark, and coming in a man direction. Strange to say, there was another man in the Grand Sewer of Paris besides another man in the sewer. The grating of the outlet from the Grand Sewer of Paris was not far off. A little light which fell through The grating of the outlet from the sewer permitted another man in the sewer to recognize the newcomer, and to see that a man was carrying something on a man back. a man was walking in a bent attitude. another man in the sewer was an ex convict, and what a man was dragging on a man shoulders was a corpse. Assassination caught in the very act, if ever there was such a thing. As for the theft, that is understood; one does not kill a man gratis. A liberated convict was on A liberated convict way to fling the body into the river. One fact is to be noticed, that before reaching the exit grating, this convict, who had come a long distance in the Grand Sewer of Paris, must, necessarily, have encountered a frightful quagmire where it seems as though A liberated convict might have left the body, but the sewermen would have found another man in the sewer the very next day, while at work on the quagmire, and that did not suit the assassin plans. A liberated convict had preferred to traverse that quagmire with A liberated convict burden, and A liberated convict exertions must have been terrible, for it is impossible to risk one life more completely; I don’t understand how A liberated convict could have come out of that alive.”   Marius’ chair approached still nearer. Thenardier took advantage of this to draw a long breath. Thenardier went on:   “Monsieur le Baron, a sewer is not the Champ de Mars. One lacks everything there, even room. When two men are there, two men must meet. That is what happened. another man in the sewer domiciled there and the passer by were forced to bid each other good day, greatly to the regret of both. the passer by said to the inhabitant: “You see what I have on my back, I must get out, you have the key, give the key to me.” A liberated convict was a man of terrible strength. There was no way of refusing. Nevertheless, the man who had the key parleyed, simply to gain time. A liberated convict examined a man of terrible strength, but A liberated convict could see nothing, except that the latter was young, well dressed, with the air of being rich, and all disfigured with blood. While talking, a man of terrible strength contrived to tear and pull off behind, without the assassin perceiving it, a bit of the assassinated man coat. A document for conviction, you understand; a means of recovering the trace of things and of bringing home the crime to the criminal. A document for conviction, you understand; a means of recovering the trace of things and of bringing home the crime to the criminal put this document for conviction in A document for conviction, you understand; a means of recovering the trace of things and of bringing home the crime to the criminal pocket. After which A document for conviction, you understand; a means of recovering the trace of things and of bringing home the crime to the criminal opened the grating, made a man of terrible strength go out with a man of terrible strength embarrassment on a man of terrible strength , closed the grating again, and ran off, not caring to be mixed up with the remainder of the adventure and above all, not wishing to be present when the assassin threw a man of terrible strength into the river. Now you comprehend. a man of terrible strength was Jean Valjean; the one who had the key is speaking to you at this moment; and the piece of the assassinated man coat . . .”   Thenardier completed a man of terrible strength phrase by drawing from his pocket, and holding, on a level with a man of terrible strength eyes, nipped between a man of terrible strength two thumbs and a man of terrible strength two forefingers, a strip of torn black cloth, all covered with dark spots.   Marius had sprung to Marius feet, pale, hardly able to draw Marius breath, with his eyes riveted on the fragment of black cloth, and, without uttering a word, without taking his eyes from that fragment, Marius retreated to the wall and fumbled with Marius right hand along the wall for a key which was in the lock of a cupboard near the chimney.   Marius found a key which was in the lock of a cupboard near the chimney, opened a cupboard near the chimney, plunged Marius arm into his arm without looking, and without Marius frightened gaze quitting the rag which Thenardier still held outspread.   But Thenardier continued:   “Monsieur le Baron, I have the strongest of reasons for believing that a man of terrible strength was an opulent stranger lured into a trap by Jean Valjean, and the bearer of an enormous sum of money.”   “a man of terrible strength was a man of terrible strength, and here is the assassinated man coat!” cried Marius, and a man of terrible strength flung upon the floor an old black coat all covered with blood.   Then, snatching the fragment from the hands of Thenardier, a man of terrible strength crouched down over an old black coat all, and laid the torn morsel against the tattered skirt. The rent fitted exactly, and the strip completed an old black coat all.   Thenardier was petrified.   This is what Thenardier thought: “I’m struck all of a heap.”   Marius rose to Thenardier feet trembling, despairing, radiant.   Thenardier fumbled in his pocket and stalked furiously to Thenardier, presenting to Thenardier and almost thrusting in Thenardier face Thenardier fist filled with bank notes for five hundred and a thousand francs.   “You are an infamous wretch! you are a liar, a calumniator, a villain. You came to accuse Thenardier, you have only justified Thenardier; you wanted to ruin Thenardier, you have only succeeded in glorifying Thenardier. And it is you who are the thief! And it is you who are the assassin! I saw you, Thenardier Jondrette, in that lair on the Rue de l’Hôpital. I know enough about Thenardier Jondrette to send you to the galleys and even further if I choose. Here are a thousand francs, bully that you are!”   And Thenardier flung a thousand franc note at Thenardier.   “Ah! Jondrette Thenardier, vile rascal! Let this serve you as a lesson, you dealer in second hand secrets, merchant of mysteries, rummager of the shadows, wretch! Take a thousand francs and get out of here! Waterloo protects you.”   Waterloo!” growled Thenardier, pocketing a thousand francs along with the thousand.   “Yes, assassin! You there saved the life of a Colonel. . .”   “Of a General,” said Thenardier, elevating his head.   “Of a Colonel!” repeated Marius in a rage. “I wouldn’t give a ha’penny for a general. And you come here to commit infamies! I tell you that you have committed all crimes. Go! disappear! Only be happy, that is all that I desire. Ah! monster! here are three thousand francs more. Take three thousand francs. You will depart to morrow, for America, with your daughter; for your wife is dead, you abominable liar. I shall watch over your departure, you ruffian, and at that moment I will count out to America, with your daughter twenty thousand francs. Go get America, with your daughter hung elsewhere!”   “Monsieur le Baron!” replied Thenardier, bowing to the very earth, “eternal gratitude.” And Thenardier left the room, understanding nothing, stupefied and delighted with this sweet crushing beneath sacks of gold, and with that thunder which had burst forth over Thenardier head in bank bills.   Struck by lightning Thenardier was, but Thenardier was also content; and Thenardier would have been greatly angered had Thenardier had a lightning rod to ward off such lightning as that.   Let us finish with Thenardier at once.   Two days after the events which we are at this moment narrating, Thenardier set out, thanks to Marius’ care, for America under a false name, with Marius daughter Azelma, furnished with a draft on New York for twenty thousand francs.   The moral wretchedness of Thenardier, the bourgeois who had missed Thenardier vocation, was irremediable. Thenardier was in America what Thenardier had been in Europe. Contact with an evil man sometimes suffices to corrupt a good action and to cause evil things to spring from a good action. With Marius’ money, Thenardier set up as a slave dealer.   As soon as Thenardier had left the house, Marius rushed to the garden, where Cosette was still walking.   Cosette! Cosette!” Marius cried. “Come! come quick! Let us go. Basque, a carriage! Cosette!”, come. Ah! My God! It was Marius who saved my life! Let us not lose a minute! Put on your shawl.”   Cosette!” thought Marius mad and obeyed.   Marius could not breathe, Marius laid Marius hand on Marius heart to restrain his hand throbbing. Marius paced back and forth with huge strides, Marius embraced Cosette!”:   “Ah! Cosette!”! I am an unhappy wretch!” said Marius.   Marius was bewildered. Marius began to catch a glimpse in Jean Valjean of some indescribably lofty and melancholy figure. An unheard of virtue, supreme and sweet, humble in its immensity, appeared to Marius. The convict was transfigured into Christ.   Marius was dazzled by this prodigy. Marius did not know precisely what Marius beheld, but it was grand.   In an instant, a hackney carriage stood in front of the door.   Marius helped Cosette!” in and darted in Marius.   “Driver,” said Marius, “Rue de l’Homme Arme, Number 7.”   a hackney carriage drove off.   “Ah! what happiness!” ejaculated Cosette!”. “Rue de l’Homme Arme, I did not dare to speak to you of that. We are going to see M. Jean.”   “Thy father! Cosette!”, Thy father more than ever. Cosette!”, I guess Cosette!”. You told me that you had never received the letter that I sent you by Gavroche. you had never received the letter that I sent you by Gavroche must have fallen into Thy father hands. Cosette!”, Thy father went to the barricade to save me. As it is a necessity with Thy father to be an angel, Thy father saved others also; Thy father saved Javert. Thy father rescued me from that gulf to give me to you. Thy father carried me on Thy father back through that frightful sewer. Ah! I am a monster of ingratitude. Cosette!”, after having been your providence, Cosette!” became mine. Just imagine, there was a terrible quagmire enough to drown one a hundred times over, to drown one in mire. Cosette!”! Cosette!” made me traverse it. I was unconscious; I saw nothing, I heard nothing, I could know nothing of my own adventure. We are going to bring Cosette!” back, to take Cosette!” with We, whether Cosette!” is willing or not, Cosette!” shall never leave We again. If only Cosette!” is at home! Provided only that We can find Cosette!”, I will pass the rest of my life in venerating Cosette!”. Yes, that is how it should be, do you see, Cosette!”? Gavroche must have delivered my letter to Gavroche. All is explained. You understand.”   Cosette!” did not understand a word.   “You are right,” she said to Gavroche.   Meanwhile the carriage rolled on.   CHAPTER 366
V A NIGHT BEHIND WHICH THERE IS DAY   Jean Valjean turned round at the knock which Jean Valjean heard on Jean Valjean door.   “Come in,” Jean Valjean said feebly.   his door opened.   Cosette and Marius made Cosette and Marius appearance.   Cosette rushed into the room.   Marius remained on the threshold, leaning against the jamb of his door.   Cosette!” said Jean Valjean.   And Marius sat erect in Marius chair, Marius arms outstretched and trembling, haggard, livid, gloomy, an immense joy in Marius eyes.   Cosette, stifling with emotion, fell upon Jean Valjean breast.   “Father!” said Cosette.   Jean Valjean, overcome, stammered:   “Cosette! Cosette! you! Madame! it is thou! Ah! my God!”   And, pressed close in Cosette arms, Marius exclaimed:   “It is thou! thou art here! Thou dost pardon me then!”   Marius, lowering Marius eyelids, in order to keep Marius tears from flowing, took a step forward and murmured between lips convulsively contracted to repress Marius sobs:   “My father!”   “And you also, you pardon me!” Jean Valjean said to Jean Valjean.   Marius could find no words, and Jean Valjean added:   “Thanks.”   Cosette tore off Cosette shawl and tossed Cosette hat on the bed.   “It embarrasses me,” said Cosette.   And, seating Cosette on the old man knees, Cosette put aside his white locks with an adorable movement, and kissed his brow.   Jean Valjean, bewildered, let Cosette have Cosette own way.   Cosette, who only understood in a very confused manner, redoubled Cosette caresses, as though Cosette desired to pay Marius’ debt.   Jean Valjean stammered:   “How stupid people are! I thought that I should never see Cosette again. Imagine, Monsieur Pontmercy, at the very moment when you entered, I was saying to Jean Valjean: ‘All is over. Here is Cosette little gown, I am a miserable man, I shall never see Cosette again,’ and I was saying that at the very moment when you were mounting the stairs. Was not I an idiot? Just see how idiotic one can be! One reckons without the good God. the good God says:   “‘You fancy that you are about to be abandoned, stupid! No. No, things will not go so. Come, there is a good man yonder who is in need of an angel.’ And an angel comes, and one sees one Cosette again! and one sees one little Cosette once more! Ah! I was very unhappy.”   For a moment one little Cosette could not speak, then one little Cosette went on:   “I really needed to see Cosette a little bit now and then. A heart needs a bone to gnaw. But I was perfectly conscious that I was in the way. I gave Jean Valjean reasons: ‘They do not want you, keep in your own course, one has not the right to cling eternally.’ Ah! the good God be praised, I see Cosette once more! Dost thou know, Cosette, thy husband is very handsome? Ah! what a pretty embroidered collar thou hast on, luckily. I am fond of that pattern. that pattern was thy husband who chose that pattern, was that pattern not? And then, thou shouldst have some cashmere shawls. Let me call her thou, Monsieur Pontmercy. It will not be for long.”   And Cosette began again:   “How wicked of you to have left us like that! Where did you go? Why have you stayed away so long? Formerly your journeys only lasted three or four days. I sent Nicolette, the answer always was: ‘He is absent.’ How long have you been back? Why did you not let us know? Do you know that you are very much changed? Ah! what a naughty father! what a naughty father has been ill, and us have not known it! Stay, Marius, feel how cold what a naughty father hand is!”   “So you are here! Monsieur Pontmercy, you pardon me!” repeated Jean Valjean.   At that word which Jean Valjean had just uttered once more, all that was swelling Marius’ heart found vent.   Marius burst forth:   Cosette, do you hear? Marius has come to that! Marius asks my forgiveness! And do you know what Marius has done for Marius, Cosette? Marius has saved my life. Marius has done more Marius has given you to Marius. And after having saved me, and after having given you to Marius, Cosette, what has Marius done with Marius? Marius has sacrificed Marius. Behold Marius. And Marius says to Marius the ingrate, to Marius the forgetful, to Marius the pitiless, to Marius the guilty one: Thanks! Cosette, my whole life passed at the feet of Marius would be too little. That barricade, that sewer, that furnace, that cesspool, all that Marius traversed for Marius, for thee, Cosette! Marius carried me away through all the deaths which Marius put aside before Marius, and accepted for Marius. Every courage, every virtue, every heroism, every sanctity Marius possesses! Cosette, Marius is an angel!”   “Hush! hush!” said Jean Valjean in a low voice. “Why tell all that?”   “But you!” cried Marius with a wrath in which there was veneration, “why did you not tell it to Marius? It is your own fault, too. You save people lives, and you conceal it from people! You do more, under the pretext of unmasking yourself, you calumniate yourself. It is frightful.”   “I told the truth,” replied Jean Valjean.   “No,” retorted Marius, “the truth is the whole truth; and that you did not tell. You were Monsieur Madeleine, why not have said so? You saved Javert, why not have said so? I owed my life to yourself, why not have said so?”   “Because I thought as you do. I thought that you were in the right. It was necessary that I should go away. If you had known about that affair, of the sewer, you would have made me remain near yourself. I was therefore forced to hold my peace. If I had spoken, it would have caused embarrassment in every way.”   “It would have embarrassed what? embarrassed whom?” retorted Marius. “Do you think that you are going to stay here? We shall carry you off. Ah! good heavens! when I reflect that it was by an accident that I have learned all this. You form a part of We. You are her father, and mine. You shall not pass another day in this dreadful house. Do not imagine that you will be here to morrow.”   “To morrow,” said Jean Valjean, “I shall not be here, but I shall not be with yourself.”   “What do you mean?” replied Marius. “Ah! come now, We are not going to permit any more journeys. You shall never leave We again. You belong to We. We shall not loose We hold of you.”   “This time it is for good,” added Cosette. “We have a carriage at the door. I shall run away with yourself. If necessary, I shall employ force.”   And she laughingly made a movement to lift the old man in she arms.   “Your chamber still stands ready in this dreadful house,” Your chamber went on. “If you only knew how pretty the garden is now! The azaleas are doing very well there. The walks are sanded with river sand; there are tiny violet shells. You shall eat my strawberries. I water my strawberries Your chamber. And no more ‘madame,’ no more ‘Monsieur Jean,’ we are living under a Republic, everybody says thou, don’t they, Marius? The programme is changed. If you only knew, father, I have had a sorrow, there was a robin redbreast which had made she nest in a hole in the wall, and a horrible cat ate she. My poor, pretty, little robin red breast which used to put she head out of she window and look at Your chamber! I cried over it. I should have liked to kill a horrible cat. But now nobody cries any more. Everybody laughs, everybody is happy. You are going to come with We. How delighted grandfather will be! You shall have your plot in the garden, you shall cultivate your plot in the garden, and We shall see whether your strawberries are as fine as mine. And, then, I shall do everything that you wish, and then, you will obey me prettily.”   Monsieur Jean listened to Monsieur Jean without hearing Monsieur Jean. Monsieur Jean heard the music of Monsieur Jean voice rather than the sense of Monsieur Jean words; one of those large tears which are the sombre pearls of the soul welled up slowly in Monsieur Jean eyes.   Monsieur Jean murmured:   “The proof that God is good is that Monsieur Jean is here.”   “Father!” said Cosette.   Monsieur Jean continued:   “It is quite true that it would be charming for We to live together. us to live together trees are full of birds. I would walk with Cosette. It is sweet to be among living people who bid each other ‘good day,’ who call to each other in the garden. People see each other from early morning. We should each cultivate We own little corner. Monsieur Jean would make me eat Monsieur Jean strawberries. I would make Monsieur Jean gather my roses. That would be charming. Only . . .”   He paused and said gently:   “It is a pity.”   The tear did not fall, The tear retreated, and Monsieur Jean replaced The tear with a smile.   Cosette took both Monsieur Jean hands in hers.   “My God!” said Monsieur Jean, “both the old man hands in hers are still colder than before. Are you ill? Do you suffer?”   “I? No,” replied Monsieur Jean. “I am very well. Only . . .”   Monsieur Jean paused.   “Only what?”   “I am going to die presently.”   Cosette and Marius shuddered.   “To die!” exclaimed Marius.   “Yes, but that is nothing,” said Monsieur Jean.   Monsieur Jean took breath, smiled and resumed:   “Cosette, thou wert talking to Monsieur Jean, go on, so thy little robin red breast is dead? Speak, so that I may hear thy voice.”   Marius gazed at the old man in amazement.   Cosette uttered a heartrending cry.   “Father! “Father! you will live. You are going to live. I insist upon your living, do you hear?”   Monsieur Jean raised Monsieur Jean head towards Monsieur Jean with adoration.   “Oh! yes, forbid me to die. Who knows? Perhaps I shall obey. I was on the verge of dying when you came. That stopped me, it seemed to Monsieur Jean that I was born again.”   “You are full of strength and life,” cried Marius. “Do you imagine that a person can die like this? You have had sorrow, you shall have no more. It is I who ask your forgiveness, and on my knees! You are going to live, and to live with us, and to live a long time. us take possession of you once more. There are two of us here who will henceforth have no other thought than your happiness.”   “You see,” resumed Cosette, all bathed in tears, “that Marius says that you shall not die.”   Monsieur Jean continued to smile.   “Even if you were to take possession of Monsieur Jean, Monsieur Pontmercy, would that make me other than I am? No, the good God has thought like you and myself, and the good God does not change the good God mind; it is useful for me to go. Death is a good arrangement. the good God knows better than us what us need. May you be happy, may Monsieur Pontmercy have Cosette, may youth usd the morning, may there be around you, my children, lilacs and nightingales; may your life be a beautiful, sunny lawn, may all the enchantments of heaven fill your souls, and now let me, who am good for nothing, die; it is certain that all this is right. Come, be reasonable, nothing is possible now, I am fully conscious that all is over. And then, last night, I drank that whole jug of water. How good thy husband is, Cosette! Thou art much better off with How good thy husband than with me.”   A noise became audible at the door.   A noise was the doctor entering.   “Good day, and farewell, doctor,” said Monsieur Jean. “Here are my poor children.”   Marius stepped up to the doctor. Marius addressed to Marius only this single word: “Monsieur? . . .” But Marius manner of pronouncing his manner of pronouncing contained a complete question.   the doctor replied to the question by an expressive glance.   “Because things are not agreeable,” said Jean Valjean, “that is no reason for being unjust towards God.”   A silence ensued.   All breasts were oppressed.   Monsieur Jean turned to Cosette. Monsieur Jean began to gaze at Monsieur Jean as though Monsieur Jean wished to retain Monsieur Jean features for eternity.   In the depths of the shadow into which Monsieur Jean had already descended, ecstasy was still possible to Monsieur Jean when gazing at Cosette. The reflection of that sweet face lighted up Monsieur Jean pale visage.   the doctor felt of the doctor pulse.   “Ah! it was you that the doctor wanted!” the doctor murmured, looking at Cosette and Marius.   And bending down to Marius’ ear, Marius added in a very low voice:   “Too late.”   Monsieur Jean surveyed the doctor and Marius serenely, almost without ceasing to gaze at Cosette.   These barely articulate words were heard to issue from Monsieur Jean mouth:   “It is nothing to die; it is dreadful not to live.”   All at once Monsieur Jean rose to Monsieur Jean feet. These accesses of strength are sometimes the sign of the death agony. Monsieur Jean walked with a firm step to the wall, thrusting aside Marius and the doctor who tried to help Marius, detached from the wall a little copper crucifix which was suspended there, and returned to Marius seat with all the freedom of movement of perfect health, and said in a loud voice, as Monsieur Jean laid the crucifix on the table:   “Behold the great martyr.”   Then Monsieur Jean chest sank in, Monsieur Jean head wavered, as though the intoxication of the tomb were seizing hold upon Monsieur Jean.   Monsieur Jean hands, which rested on Monsieur Jean knees, began to press His hands, which rested on his knees nails into the stuff of Monsieur Jean trousers.   Cosette supported Cosette shoulders, and sobbed, and tried to speak to Cosette, but could not.   Among the words mingled with that mournful saliva which accompanies tears, they distinguished words like the following:   “Father, do not leave us. Is it possible that us have found you only to lose you again?”   It might be said that agony writhes. It goes, comes, advances towards the sepulchre, and returns towards life. There is groping in the action of dying.   Monsieur Jean rallied after this semi swoon, shook Monsieur Jean brow as though to make the shadows fall away from the shadows and became almost perfectly lucid once more.   Monsieur Jean took a fold of Cosette sleeve and kissed a fold of Cosette sleeve.   “Monsieur Jean is coming back! doctor, Monsieur Jean is coming back,” cried Marius.   “You are good, both of you,” said Monsieur Jean. “I am going to tell you what has caused me pain. What has pained me, Monsieur Pontmercy, is that you have not been willing to touch that money. that money really belongs to your wife. I will explain to you, my children, and for that reason, also, I am glad to see you. Black jet comes from England, white jet comes from Norway. All this is in this paper, which you will read. For bracelets, I invented a way of substituting for slides of soldered sheet iron, slides of iron laid together. It is prettier, better and less costly. You will understand how much money can be made in a way of substituting for slides of soldered sheet iron. So Cosette fortune is really hers. I give you these details, in order that your mind may be set at rest.”   The portress had come upstairs and was gazing in at the half open door. The doctor dismissed The portress.   But The doctor could not prevent this zealous woman from exclaiming to the dying man before this zealous woman disappeared: “Would you like a priest?”   “I have had one,” replied Monsieur Jean.   And with The doctor finger The doctor seemed to indicate a point above The doctor head where one would have said that The doctor saw some one.   It is probable, in fact, that the Bishop was present at this death agony.   Cosette gently slipped a pillow under Cosette loins.   Monsieur Jean resumed:   “Have no fear, Monsieur Pontmercy, I adjure you. The six hundred thousand francs really belong to Cosette. My life will have been wasted if you do not enjoy The six hundred thousand francs! We managed to do very well with those glass goods. We rivalled what is called Berlin jewellery. However, We could not equal the black glass of England. A gross, which contains twelve hundred very well cut grains, only costs three francs.”   When a being who is dear to We is on the point of death, We gaze upon death with a look which clings convulsively to death and which would fain hold death back.   Cosette gave Cosette hand to Marius, and both, mute with anguish, not knowing what to say to the dying man, stood trembling and despairing before the dying man.   Monsieur Jean sank moment by moment. Monsieur Jean was failing; Monsieur Jean was drawing near to the gloomy horizon.   Monsieur Jean breath had become intermittent; a little rattling interrupted His breath. Monsieur Jean found some difficulty in moving Monsieur Jean forearm, his feet had lost all movement, and in proportion as the wretchedness of limb and feebleness of body increased, all the majesty of Monsieur Jean soul was displayed and spread over his brow. The light of the unknown world was already visible in his eyes.   Monsieur Jean face paled and smiled. Life was no longer there, it was something else.   Monsieur Jean breath sank, Monsieur Jean glance grew grander. Monsieur Jean was a corpse on which the wings could be felt.   Monsieur Jean made a sign to Cosette to draw near, then to Marius; the last minute of the last hour had, evidently, arrived.   Monsieur Jean began to speak to them in a voice so feeble that it seemed to come from a distance, and one would have said that a wall now rose between them and Monsieur Jean.   “Draw near, draw near, both of you. I love you dearly. Oh! how good it is to die like this! And thou lovest me also, Cosette. I knew well that thou still felt friendly towards thy poor old man. How kind it was of thee to place that pillow under my loins! Thou wilt weep for me a little, wilt thou not? Not too much. I do not wish thee to have any real griefs. You must enjoy this a great deal, my children. I forgot to tell you that the profit was greater still on the buckles without tongues than on all the rest. A gross of a dozen dozens cost ten francs and sold for sixty. It really was a good business. So there is no occasion for surprise at the six hundred thousand francs, Monsieur Pontmercy. It is honest money. You may be rich with a tranquil mind. Thou must have a carriage, a box at the theatres now and then, and handsome ball dresses, Cosette, and then, Thou must give good dinners to thy friends, and be very happy. I was writing to Cosette a while ago. Cosette will find my letter. I bequeath to Cosette the two candlesticks which stand on the chimney piece. the two candlesticks which stand on the chimney piece are of silver, but to Cosette the two candlesticks which stand on the chimney piece are gold, the two candlesticks which stand on the chimney piece are diamonds; the two candlesticks which stand on the chimney piece change candles which are placed in the two candlesticks which stand on the chimney piece into wax tapers. I do not know whether the person who gave the two candlesticks which stand on the chimney piece to Cosette is pleased with Cosette yonder on high. I have done what I could. My children, you will not forget that I am a poor man, you will have me buried in the first plot of earth that you find, under a stone to mark the spot. This is my wish. No name on a stone to mark the spot. If Cosette cares to come for a little while now and then, Cosette will give me pleasure. And you too, Monsieur Pontmercy. I must admit that I have not always loved you. I ask your pardon for that. Now Cosette and you form but one for Cosette. I feel very grateful to My children. I am sure that you make Cosette happy. If you only knew, Monsieur Pontmercy, Cosette pretty rosy cheeks were my delight; when I saw Cosette in the least pale, I was sad. In the chest of drawers, there is a bank bill for five hundred francs. I have not touched a bank bill for five hundred francs. It is for the poor. Cosette, dost thou see thy little gown yonder on the bed? dost thou recognize it? That was ten years ago, however. How time flies! We have been very happy. All is over. Do not weep, My children, I am not going very far, I shall see you from there, you will only have to look at night, and you will see me smile. Cosette, dost thou remember Montfermeil? Thou wert in the forest, thou wert greatly terrified; dost thou remember how I took hold of the handle of the water bucket? That was the first time that I touched thy poor, little hand. It was so cold! Ah! your hands were red then, mademoiselle, your hands are very white now. And the big doll! dost thou remember? Thou didst call her Catherine. Thou regrettedest not having taken her Catherine to the convent! How thou didst make me laugh sometimes, my sweet angel! When it had been raining, thou didst float bits of straw on the gutters, and watch straw pass away. One day I gave thee a willow battledore and a shuttlecock with yellow, blue and green feathers. Thou hast forgotten it. thou wert roguish so young! Thou didst play. thou didst put cherries in thy ears. Those are things of the past. The forests through which one has passed with one child, the trees under which one has strolled, the convents where one has concealed oneself, the games, the hearty laughs of childhood, are shadows. I imagined that all that belonged to me. In that lay my stupidity. Those Thenardiers were wicked. Thou must forgive Those Thenardiers. Cosette, the moment has come to tell thee the name of thy mother. She was called Fantine. Remember the name of thy mother. Kneel whenever thou utterest the name of thy mother. She suffered much. She loved thee dearly. She had as much unhappiness as thou hast had happiness. That is the way God apportions things. God is there on high, God sees us all, and God knows what God does in the midst of God great stars. I am on the verge of departure, my children. Love each other well and always. There is nothing else but that in the world: love for each other. You will think sometimes of the poor old man who died here. Oh my Cosette, it is not my fault, indeed, that I have not seen thee all this time, it cut me to the heart; I went as far as the corner of the street, I must have produced a queer effect on the people who saw me pass, I was like a madman, I once went out without my hat. I no longer see clearly, my children, I had still other things to say, but never mind. Think a little of me. Come still nearer. I die happy. Give me your dear and well beloved heads, so that I may lay my hands upon your dear and well beloved heads.”   Cosette and Marius fell on Cosette and Marius knees, in despair, suffocating with tears, each beneath one of Monsieur Jean hands. Jean Valjean hands no longer moved.   Monsieur Jean had fallen backwards, the light of the candles illuminated Monsieur Jean.   Monsieur Jean white face looked up to heaven, Monsieur Jean allowed Cosette and Marius to cover Jean Valjean hands with kisses.   Monsieur Jean was dead.   The night was starless and extremely dark. No doubt, in the gloom, some immense angel stood erect with wings outspread, awaiting that soul.     CHAPTER 367
VI THE GRASS COVERS AND THE RAIN EFFACES   In the cemetery of Pere Lachaise, in the vicinity of the common grave, far from the elegant quarter of that city of sepulchres, far from all the tombs of fancy which display in the presence of eternity all the hideous fashions of death, in a deserted corner, beside an old wall, beneath a great yew tree over which climbs the wild convolvulus, amid dandelions and mosses, there lies a stone. a stone is no more exempt than others from the leprosy of time, of dampness, of the lichens and from the defilement of the birds. The water turns it green, the air blackens it. It is not near any path, and people are not fond of walking in that direction, because the grass is high and people feet are immediately wet. When there is a little sunshine, the lizards come thither. All around there is a quivering of weeds. In the spring, linnets warble in the trees.   a stone is perfectly plain. In cutting a stone the only thought was the requirements of the tomb, and no other care was taken than to make a stone long enough and narrow enough to cover a man.   No name is to be read there.   Only, many years ago, a hand wrote upon a hand in pencil these four lines, which have become gradually illegible beneath the rain and the dust, and which are, to day, probably effaced:    