CHAPTER 1
CHAPTER 2
I.  TREATS OF THE PLACE WHERE OLIVER TWIST WAS BORN AND OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES ATTENDING I.  TREATS OF THE PLACE BIRTH    Among other public buildings in a certain town, which for many reasons it will be prudent to refrain from mentioning, and to which I will assign no fictitious name, there is one anciently common to most towns, great or small: to wit, a workhouse; and in a workhouse was born; on a day and date which I need not trouble myself to repeat, inasmuch as it can be of no possible consequence to the reader, in this stage of the business at all events; the item of mortality whose name is prefixed to the head of this chapter.    For a long time after it was ushered into this world of sorrow and trouble, by the parish surgeon, it remained a matter of considerable doubt whether the child would survive to bear any name at all; in which case it is somewhat more than probable that these memoirs would never have appeared; or, if these memoirs had, that being comprised within a couple of pages, these memoirs would have possessed the inestimable merit of being the most concise and faithful specimen of biography, extant in the literature of any age or country.    Although I am not disposed to maintain that the being born in a workhouse, is in itself the most fortunate and enviable circumstance that can possibly befall a human being, I do mean to say that in this particular instance, it was the best thing for Oliver Twist that could by possibility have occurred. The fact is, that there was considerable difficulty in inducing Oliver to take upon Oliver the office of respiration, a troublesome practice, but one which custom has rendered necessary to our easy existence; and for some time Oliver lay gasping on a little flock mattress, rather unequally poised between this world and the next: the balance being decidedly in favour of the latter. Now, if, during this brief period, Oliver had been surrounded by careful grandmothers, anxious aunts, experienced nurses, and doctors of profound wisdom, Oliver would most inevitably and indubitably have been killed in no time. There being nobody by, however, but a pauper old woman, who was rendered rather misty by an unwonted allowance of beer; and a parish surgeon who did such matters by contract; Oliver and Nature fought out the point between Oliver and Nature. The result was, that, after a few struggles, Oliver breathed, sneezed, and proceeded to advertise to the inmates of the workhouse the fact of a new burden having been imposed upon the parish, by setting up as loud a cry as could reasonably have been expected from a male infant who had not been possessed of that very useful appendage, a voice, for a much longer space of time than three minutes and a quarter.    As Oliver gave this first proof of the free and proper action of Oliver lungs, the patchwork coverlet which was carelessly flung over the iron bedstead, rustled; the pale face of a young woman was raised feebly from the pillow; and a faint voice imperfectly articulated the words, “Let me see the child, and die.”    The surgeon had been sitting with The surgeon turned towards the fire: giving the palms of The surgeon hands a warm and a rub alternately. As the young woman spoke, The surgeon rose, and advancing to the bed head, said, with more kindness than might have been expected of The surgeon:    “Oh, you must not talk about dying yet.”    “Lor bless her dear heart, no!” interposed the nurse, hastily depositing in the nurse pocket a green glass bottle, the contents of which the nurse had been tasting in a corner with evident satisfaction.    “Lor bless the nurse dear heart, when the nurse has lived as long as I have, sir, and had thirteen children of the nurse own, and all on ’em dead except two, and thirteen children of her own, and all on ’em dead except two in the wurkus with me, the nurse’ll know better than to take on in that way, bless the nurse ! Think what it is to be a mother, there a dear young lamb do.”    Apparently this consolatory perspective of a mother prospects failed in producing this consolatory perspective of a mother prospects due effect. The patient shook her head, and stretched out her hand towards the child.    The surgeon deposited the child in her arms. her imprinted her cold white lips passionately on her cold white lips forehead; passed her hands over her face; gazed wildly round; shuddered; fell back and died. They chafed her breast, hands, and temples; but the blood had stopped forever. They talked of hope and comfort. They had been strangers too long.    “It all over, Mrs. Thingummy!” said The surgeon.    “Ah, poor dear, so it is!” said the nurse, picking up the cork of the green bottle, which had fallen out on the pillow, as the nurse stooped to take up the child. “Poor dear!”    “You needn’t mind sending up to me, if the child cries, nurse,” said The surgeon, putting on the child gloves with great deliberation. “It very likely it will be troublesome. Give It a little gruel if It is.” the child put on the child hat, and, pausing by the bed side on the child way to the door, added, “the nurse was a good looking girl, too; where did the nurse come from?”    “the nurse was brought here last night,” replied the nurse, “by the overseer order. the nurse was found lying in the street. the nurse had walked some distance, for the nurse shoes were worn to pieces; but where the nurse came from, or where the nurse was going to, nobody knows.”    The surgeon leaned over the body, and raised the left hand. “The old story,” The surgeon said, shaking The surgeon head: “no wedding ring, I see. Ah! Good night!”    The medical gentleman walked away to dinner; and the nurse, having once more applied The medical gentleman to the green bottle, sat down on a low chair before the fire, and proceeded to dress the infant.    What an excellent example of the power of dress, young Oliver Twist was! Wrapped in the blanket which had hitherto formed young Oliver Twist only covering, young Oliver Twist might have been the child of a nobleman or a beggar; it would have been hard for the haughtiest stranger to have assigned young Oliver Twist young Oliver Twist proper station in society. But now that young Oliver Twist was enveloped in the old calico robes which had grown yellow in the same service, young Oliver Twist was badged and ticketed, and fell into young Oliver Twist place at once a parish child the orphan of a workhouse the humble, half starved drudge to be cuffed and buffeted through the world despised by all, and pitied by none.    Oliver cried lustily. If Oliver could have known that Oliver was an orphan, left to the tender mercies of church wardens and overseers, perhaps Oliver would have cried the louder.  CHAPTER 3
II.  TREATS OF OLIVER TWIST’S GROWTH, EDUCATION, AND BOARD    For the next eight or ten months, OLIVER was the victim of a systematic course of treachery and deception. OLIVER was brought up by hand. The hungry and destitute situation of the infant orphan was duly reported by the workhouse authorities to the workhouse authorities. the workhouse authorities inquired with dignity of the workhouse authorities, whether there was no female then domiciled in “the house” who was in a situation to impart to Oliver Twist, the consolation and nourishment of which OLIVER stood in need. the workhouse authorities replied with humility, that there was not. Upon this, the workhouse authorities magnanimously and humanely resolved, that OLIVER should be “farmed,” or, in other words, that OLIVER should be dispatched to a branch workhouse some three miles off, where twenty or thirty other juvenile offenders against the poor laws, rolled about the floor all day, without the inconvenience of too much food or too much clothing, under the parental superintendence of an elderly female, who received the culprits at and for the consideration of sevenpence halfpenny per small head per week. sevenpence halfpenny per small head per week worth per week is a good round diet for a child; a great deal may be got for sevenpence halfpenny per small head per week, quite enough to overload a great deal stomach, and make sevenpence halfpenny per small head per week uncomfortable. The elderly female was a woman of wisdom and experience; The elderly female knew what was good for children; and The elderly female had a very accurate perception of what was good for The elderly female. So, The elderly female appropriated the greater part of the weekly stipend to The elderly female own use, and consigned the rising parochial generation to even a shorter allowance than was originally provided for the rising parochial generation. Thereby finding in the lowest depth a deeper still; and proving The elderly female a very great experimental philosopher.    Everybody knows the story of another experimental philosopher who had a great theory about a horse being able to live without eating, and who demonstrated a horse so well, that he had got he own horse down to a straw a day, and would unquestionably have rendered he a very spirited and rampacious animal on nothing at all, if he had not died, four and twenty hours before he was to have had he first comfortable bait of air. Unfortunately for the experimental philosophy of the female to whose protecting care Oliver Twist was delivered over, a similar result usually attended the operation of The elderly female system; for at the very moment when the child had contrived to exist upon the smallest possible portion of the weakest possible food, the child did perversely happen in eight and a half cases out of ten, either that the child sickened from want and cold, or fell into the fire from neglect, or got half smothered by accident; in any one of which cases, the miserable little being was usually summoned into another world, and there gathered to the fathers the miserable little being had never known in this.    Occasionally, when there was some more than usually interesting inquest upon a parish child who had been overlooked in turning up a bedstead, or inadvertently scalded to death when there happened to be a washing though the latter accident was very scarce, anything approaching to a washing being of rare occurrence in the farm the jury would take the jury into their heads to ask troublesome questions, or the parishioners would rebelliously affix the parishioners signatures to a remonstrance. But these impertinences were speedily checked by the evidence of the surgeon, and the testimony of the beadle; the former of whom had always opened the body and found nothing inside (which was very probable indeed), and the latter of whom invariably swore whatever the parish wanted; which was very self devotional. Besides, the board made periodical pilgrimages to the farm, and always sent the beadle the day before, to say the beadle were going. the beadle were neat and clean to behold, when the beadle went; and what more would the people have!    It cannot be expected that this system of farming would produce any very extraordinary or luxuriant crop. Oliver Twist ninth birthday found Oliver Twist a pale thin child, somewhat diminutive in stature, and decidedly small in circumference. But nature or inheritance had implanted a good sturdy spirit in Oliver breast. It had had plenty of room to expand, thanks to the spare diet of the establishment; and perhaps to this circumstance may be attributed this circumstance having any ninth birth day at all. Be this as it may, however, it was this circumstance ninth birthday; and this circumstance was keeping it in the coal cellar with a select party of two other young gentleman, who, after participating with this circumstance in a sound thrashing, had been locked up for atrociously presuming to be hungry, when Mrs. Mann, the good lady of the house, was unexpectedly startled by the apparition of Mr. Bumble, the beadle, striving to undo the wicket of the garden gate.    “Goodness gracious! Is that you, Mr. Bumble, sir?” said Mrs. Mann, thrusting Mrs. Mann head out of the window in well affected ecstasies of joy. “(Susan, take Oliver and them two brats upstairs, and wash ’em directly.) My heart alive! Mr. Bumble, sure ly!”    Now, Mr. Bumble was a fat man, and a choleric; so, instead of responding to this open hearted salutation in a kindred spirit, Mr. Bumble gave the little wicket a tremendous shake, and then bestowed upon the little wicket a kick which could have emanated from no leg but a beadle.    “Lor, only think,” said Mrs. Mann, running out, for the three boys had been removed by this time, “only think of that! That I should have forgotten that the gate was bolted on the inside, on account of them dear children! Walk in sir; walk in, pray, Mr. Bumble, do, sir.”    Although this invitation was accompanied with a curtsey that might have softened the heart of a church warden, this invitation by no means mollified a beadle.    “Do you think this respectful or proper conduct, Mrs. Mann,” inquired Mr. Bumble, grasping Mr. Bumble cane, “to keep the parish officers a waiting at your garden gate, when the parish officers come here upon porochial business with the porochial orphans? Are you aweer, Mrs. Mann, that you are, as I may say, a porochial delegate, and a stipendiary?”    “I’m sure Mr. Bumble, that I was only a telling one or two of the dear children as is so fond of Mrs. Mann, that it was you a coming,” replied Mrs. Mann with great humility.    Mr. Bumble had a great idea of Mr. Bumble oratorical powers and Mr. Bumble importance. Mr. Bumble had displayed the one, and vindicated the other. Mr. Bumble relaxed.    “Well, well, Mrs. Mann,” Mr. Bumble replied in a calmer tone; “it may be as you say; it may be. Lead the way in, Mrs. Mann, for I come on business, and have something to say.”    Mrs. Mann ushered the beadle into a small parlour with a brick floor; placed a seat for the beadle; and officiously deposited the beadle cocked hat and cane on the table before the beadle. Mr. Bumble wiped from Mr. Bumble forehead the perspiration which Mr. Bumble walk had engendered, glanced complacently at his cocked hat, and smiled. Yes, Mr. Bumble smiled. Beadles are but men: and Mr. Bumble smiled.    “Now don’t you be offended at what I’m a going to say,” observed Mrs. Mann, with captivating sweetness. “You’m had a long walk, you know, or I wouldn’t mention it. Now, will you take a little drop of somethink, Mr. Bumble?”    “Not a drop. Nor a drop,” said Mr. Bumble, waving Mr. Bumble right hand in a dignified, but placid manner.    “I think you will,” said Mrs. Mann, who had noticed the tone of the refusal, and the gesture that had accompanied the refusal. “Just a leetle drop, with a little cold water, and a lump of sugar.”    Mr. Bumble coughed.    “Now, just a leetle drop,” said Mrs. Mann persuasively.    “What is it?” inquired the beadle.    “Why, it what I’m obliged to keep a little of in the house, to put into the blessed infants’ Daffy, when the blessed infants’ Daffy ain’t well, Mr. Bumble,” replied Mrs. Mann as Mrs. Mann opened a corner cupboard, and took down a bottle and glass. “It gin. I’ll not deceive you, Mr. B. It gin.”    “Do you give the children Daffy, Mrs. Mann?” inquired Mr. Bumble, following with Mr. Bumble eyes the interesting process of mixing.    “Ah, bless ’em, that I do, dear as it is,” replied the nurse. “I couldn’t see ’em suffer before his eyes, you know sir.”    “No”; said Mr. Bumble approvingly; “no, you could not. You are a humane woman, Mrs. Mann.” (Here she set down the glass.) “I shall take a early opportunity of mentioning it to the board, Mrs. Mann.” (Mr. Bumble drew it towards Mr. Bumble.) “You feel as a mother, Mrs. Mann.” (Mr. Bumble stirred the gin and water.) “I I drink your health with cheerfulness, Mrs. Mann”; and Mrs. Mann swallowed half of your health.    “And now about business,” said the beadle, taking out a leathern pocket book. “The child that was half baptized Oliver Twist, is nine year old to day.”    “Bless The child that was half baptized Oliver Twist!” interposed Mrs. Mann, inflaming Mrs. Mann left eye with the corner of Mrs. Mann apron.    “And notwithstanding a offered reward of ten pound, which was afterwards increased to twenty pound. Notwithstanding the most superlative, and, I may say, supernat’ral exertions on the part of this parish,” said Mr. Bumble, ““ have never been able to discover who is Mr. Bumble father, or what was Mr. Bumble mother settlement, name, or condition.”    Mrs. Mann raised Mrs. Mann hands in astonishment; but added, after a moment reflection, “How comes Mr. Bumble to have any name at all, then?”    the beadle drew the beadle up with great pride, and said, “I inwented the beadle.”    “You, Mr. Bumble!”    “I, Mrs. Mann. “ name “ fondlings in alphabetical order. The last was a S, Swubble, I named him. This was a T, Twist, I named him. The next one comes will be Unwin, and the next Vilkins. I have got names ready made to the end of the alphabet, and all the way through it again, when “ come to Z.”    “Why, you’re quite a literary character, sir!” said Mrs. Mann.    “Well, well,” said the beadle, evidently gratified with the compliment; “perhaps I may be. Perhaps I may be, Mrs. Mann.” Mrs. Mann finished the gin and water, and added, Oliver Oliver being now too old to remain here, the board have determined to have Oliver back into the house. I have come out Mrs. Mann to take Oliver there. So let me see Oliver at once.”    “I’ll fetch Oliver directly,” said Mrs. Mann, leaving the room for that purpose. Oliver, having had by this time as much of the outer coat of dirt which encrusted Oliver face and hands, removed, as could be scrubbed off in one washing, was led into the room by Oliver benevolent protectress.    “Make a bow to the gentleman, Oliver,” said Mrs. Mann.    Oliver made a bow, which was divided between the beadle on the chair, and the cocked hat on the table.    “Will you go along with Mrs. Mann, Oliver?” said Mr. Bumble, in a majestic voice.    Oliver was about to say that Oliver would go along with anybody with great readiness, when, glancing upward, Oliver caught sight of Mrs. Mann, who had got behind the chair, and was shaking her fist at Oliver with a furious countenance. Oliver took the hint at once, for her fist had been too often impressed upon Oliver body not to be deeply impressed upon Oliver recollection.    “Will her go with Mrs. Mann?” inquired OliverOliver.    “No, her can’t,” replied Mr. Bumble. “But her’ll come and see you sometimes.”    This was no very great consolation to the child. Young as he was, however, he had sense enough to make a feint of feeling great regret at going away. It was no very difficult matter for the boy to call tears into the boy . Hunger and recent ill usage are great assistants if you want to cry; and Oliver cried very naturally indeed. Mrs. Mann gave Oliver a thousand embraces, and what Oliver wanted a great deal more, a piece of bread and butter, less Oliver should seem too hungry when Oliver got to the workhouse. With the slice of bread in Oliver hand, and the little brown cloth parish cap on Oliver head, Oliver was then led away by Mr. Bumble from the wretched home where one kind word or look had never lighted the gloom of Oliver infant years. And yet Oliver burst into an agony of childish grief, as the cottage gate closed after Oliver. Wretched as were the little companions in misery Oliver was leaving behind, they were the only friends Oliver had ever known; and a sense of Oliver loneliness in the great wide world, sank into the child heart for the first time.    Mr. Bumble walked on with long strides; little Oliver, firmly grasping Oliver gold laced cuff, trotted beside Oliver, inquiring at the end of every quarter of a mile whether they were “nearly there.” To these interrogations Mr. Bumble returned very brief and snappish replies; for the temporary blandness which gin and water awakens in some bosoms had by this time evaporated; and Mr. Bumble was once again a beadle.    Oliver had not been within the walls of the workhouse a quarter of an hour, and had scarcely completed the demolition of a second slice of bread, when Mr. Bumble, who had handed Mr. Bumble over to the care of an old woman, returned; and, telling Mr. Bumble it was a board night, informed Mr. Bumble that the board had said Mr. Bumble was to appear before the board forthwith.    Not having a very clearly defined notion of what a live board was, Oliver was rather astounded by this intelligence, and was not quite certain whether Oliver ought to laugh or cry. Oliver had no time to think about the matter, however; for Mr. Bumble gave Mr. Bumble a tap on the head, with Mr. Bumble cane, to wake Mr. Bumble up: and another on the back to make Mr. Bumble lively: and bidding Mr. Bumble to follow, conducted Mr. Bumble into a large white washed room, where eight or ten fat gentlemen were sitting round a table. At the top of the table, seated in an arm chair rather higher than the rest, was a particularly fat gentleman with a very round, red face.    “Bow to the board,” said Mr. Bumble. Oliver brushed away two or three tears that were lingering in his eyes; and seeing no board but the table, fortunately bowed to that.    “What your name, boy?” said the gentleman in the high chair.    Oliver was frightened at the sight of so many gentlemen, which made Oliver tremble: and the beadle gave Oliver another tap behind, which made Oliver cry. These two causes made Oliver answer in a very low and hesitating voice; whereupon a gentleman in a white waistcoat said Oliver was a fool. Which was a capital way of raising Oliver spirits, and putting Oliver quite at Oliver ease.    “Boy,” said the gentleman in the high chair, “listen to me. You know you’re an orphan, I suppose?”    “What that, sir?” inquired OliverOliver.    “the boy is a fool I thought the boy was,” said a gentleman in a white waistcoata white waistcoat.    “Hush!” said a gentleman in a white waistcoat. “You know you’ve got no father or mother, and that you were brought up by this parish, don’t you?”    “Yes, sir,” replied Oliver, weeping bitterly.    “What are you crying for?” inquired a gentleman in a white waistcoat in a white waistcoat. And to be sure it was very extraordinary. What could the boy be crying for?    “I hope you say your prayers every night,” said another gentleman in a gruff voice; “and pray for the people who feed you, and take care of you like a Christian.”    “Yes, sir,” stammered the boy. The gentleman who spoke last was unconsciously right. It would have been very like a Christian, and a marvellously good Christian too, if Oliver had prayed for the people who fed and took care of Oliver. But Oliver hadn’t, because nobody had taught Oliver.    “Well! You have come here to be educated, and taught a useful trade,” said the red faced gentleman in the high chair.    “So you’ll begin to pick oakum to morrow morning at six o’clock,” added the surly one in a white waistcoat.    For the combination of both these blessings in the one simple process of picking oakum, Oliver bowed low by the direction of the beadle, and was then hurried away to a large ward; where, on a rough, hard bed, Oliver sobbed Oliver to sleep. What a novel illustration of the tender laws of England! They let the paupers go to sleep!    Oliver! Oliver little thought, as Oliver lay sleeping in happy unconsciousness of all around Oliver, that the board had that very day arrived at a decision which would exercise the most material influence over all Oliver future fortunes. But they had. And this was it:    The members of the board were very sage, deep, philosophical men; and when The members of this board came to turn The members of this board attention to the workhouse, The members of this board found out at once, what ordinary folks would never have discovered the poor people liked it! it was a regular place of public entertainment for the poorer classes; a tavern where there was nothing to pay; a public breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper all the year round; a brick and mortar elysium, where it was all play and no work. “Oho!” said the board, looking very knowing; “we are the fellows to set this to rights; we’ll stop it all, in no time.” So, they established the rule, that all poor people should have the alternative (for they would compel nobody, not they), of being starved by a gradual process in the house, or by a quick one out of it. With this view, they contracted with the water works to lay on an unlimited supply of water; and with a corn factor to supply periodically small quantities of oatmeal; and issued three meals of thin gruel a day, with an onion twice a week, and half a roll of Sundays. they made a great many other wise and humane regulations, having reference to the ladies, which it is not necessary to repeat; kindly undertook to divorce poor married people, in consequence of the great expense of a suit in Doctors’ Commons; and, instead of compelling a man to support his family, as they had theretofore done, took his family away from his, and made his a bachelor! There is no saying how many applicants for relief, under these last two heads, might have started up in all classes of society, if it had not been coupled with the workhouse; but the board were long headed men, and had provided for this difficulty. relief was inseparable from the workhouse and the gruel; and that frightened people.    For the first six months after Oliver Twist was removed, the system was in full operation. the system was rather expensive at first, in consequence of the increase in the undertaker bill, and the necessity of taking in the clothes of all the paupers, which fluttered loosely on their wasted, shrunken forms, after a week or two gruel. But the number of workhouse inmates got thin as well as the paupers; and the board were in ecstasies.    The room in which the boys were fed, was a large stone hall, with a copper at one end: out of which the master, dressed in an apron for the purpose, and assisted by one or two women, ladled the gruel at mealtimes. Of this festive composition each boy had one porringer, and no more except on occasions of great public rejoicing, when each boy had two ounces and a quarter of bread besides.    The bowls never wanted washing. the boys polished The bowls with the boys spoons till The bowls shone again; and when The bowls had performed this operation (which never took very long, their spoons being nearly as large as The bowls), The bowls would sit staring at the copper, with such eager eyes, as if The bowls could have devoured the very bricks of which it was composed; employing The bowls, meanwhile, in sucking The bowls fingers most assiduously, with the view of catching up any stray splashes of gruel that might have been cast thereon. Boys have generally excellent appetites. Oliver Twist and Oliver Twist companions suffered the tortures of slow starvation for three months: at last Oliver Twist and his companions got so voracious and wild with hunger, that one boy, who was tall for Oliver Twist age, and hadn’t been used to that sort of thing (for Oliver Twist father had kept a small cook shop), hinted darkly to his companions, that unless Oliver Twist had another basin of gruel per diem, Oliver Twist was afraid Oliver Twist might some night happen to eat the boy who slept next him, who happened to be a weakly youth of tender age. Oliver Twist had a wild, hungry eye; and a wild, hungry eye implicitly believed Oliver Twist. A council was held; lots were cast who should walk up to the master after supper that evening, and ask for more; and it fell to Oliver Twist.    The evening arrived; the boys took the boys places. the master, in the master cook uniform, stationed the master at the copper; the master pauper assistants ranged his pauper assistants behind the master; the gruel was served out; and a long grace was said over the short commons. the gruel disappeared; the boys whispered each other, and winked at Oliver; while Oliver next neighbors nudged the master. Child as Oliver was, Oliver was desperate with hunger, and reckless with misery. Oliver rose from the table; and advancing to the master, basin and spoon in hand, said: somewhat alarmed at Oliver own temerity:    “Please, sir, I want some more.”    the master was a fat, healthy man; but the master turned very pale. the master gazed in stupefied astonishment on the small rebel for some seconds, and then clung for support to the copper. The assistants were paralysed with wonder; the boys with fear.    “What!” said the master at length, in a faint voice.    “Please, sir,” replied Oliver, “I want some more.”    the master aimed a blow at Oliver head with the ladle; pinioned Oliver in Oliver arm; and shrieked aloud for the beadle.    the board were sitting in solemn conclave, when Mr. Bumble rushed into the room in great excitement, and addressing the gentleman in the high chair, said,    “Mr. Limbkins, I beg your pardon, sir! Oliver Twist has asked for more!”    There was a general start. Horror was depicted on every countenance.    “For more!” said Mr. Limbkins. “Compose yourself, Mr. Bumble, and answer me distinctly. Do I understand that he asked for more, after he had eaten the supper allotted by the dietary?”    “he did, sir,” replied Mr. Bumble.    “That boy will be hung,” said a gentleman in a white waistcoata white waistcoat. “I know that That boy will be hung.”    Nobody controverted the prophetic gentleman opinion. An animated discussion took place. Oliver was ordered into instant confinement; and a bill was next morning pasted on the outside of the gate, offering a reward of five pounds to anybody who would take Oliver Twist off the hands of this parish. In other words, five pounds and Oliver Twist were offered to any man or woman who wanted an apprentice to any trade, business, or calling.    “I never was more convinced of anything in my life,” said a gentleman in a white waistcoata white waistcoat, as Oliver knocked at the gate and read a bill next morning: “I never was more convinced of anything in my life, than I am that That boy will come to be hung.”    As I purpose to show in the sequel whether the white waistcoated gentleman was right or not, I should perhaps mar the interest of this narrative (supposing it to possess any at all), if I ventured to hint just yet, whether the life of Oliver Twist had this violent termination or no.  CHAPTER 4
III.  RELATES HOW OLIVER TWIST WAS VERY NEAR GETTING A PLACE WHICH WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN A SINECURE    For a week after the commission of the impious and profane offence of asking for more, Oliver remained a close prisoner in the dark and solitary room to which Oliver had been consigned by the wisdom and mercy of the board. It appears, at first sight not unreasonable to suppose, that, if Oliver had entertained a becoming feeling of respect for the prediction of the gentleman in the white waistcoat, Oliver would have established that sage individual prophetic character, once and for ever, by tying one end of Oliver pocket handkerchief to a hook in the wall, and attaching Oliver to the other. To the performance of this feat, however, there was one obstacle: namely, that pocket handkerchiefs being decided articles of luxury, had been, for all future times and ages, removed from the noses of paupers by the express order of the board, in council assembled: solemnly given and pronounced under their hands and seals. There was a still greater obstacle in Oliver youth and childishness. Oliver only cried bitterly all day; and, when the long, dismal night came on, spread Oliver little hands before Oliver eyes to shut out the darkness, and crouching in the corner, tried to sleep: ever and anon waking with a start and tremble, and drawing Oliver closer and closer to the wall, as if to feel even the wall cold hard surface were a protection in the gloom and loneliness which surrounded Oliver.    Let it not be supposed by the enemies of “the system,” that, during the period of Oliver solitary incarceration, Oliver was denied the benefit of exercise, the pleasure of society, or the advantages of religious consolation. As for exercise, it was nice cold weather, and Oliver was allowed to perform Oliver ablutions every morning under the pump, in a stone yard, in the presence of Mr. Bumble, who prevented Oliver catching cold, and caused a tingling sensation to pervade Oliver frame, by repeated applications of the cane. As for society, Oliver was carried every other day into the hall where the boys dined, and there sociably flogged as a public warning and example. And so far from being denied the advantages of religious consolation, Oliver was kicked into the same apartment every evening at prayer time, and there permitted to listen to, and console Oliver mind with, a general supplication of the boys, containing a special clause, therein inserted by authority of the board, in which they entreated to be made good, virtuous, contented, and obedient, and to be guarded from the sins and vices of Oliver Twist: whom the supplication distinctly set forth to be under the exclusive patronage and protection of the powers of wickedness, and an article direct from the manufactory of the very Devil himself.    It chanced one morning, while Oliver affairs were in this auspicious and comfortable state, that Mr. Gamfield, chimney sweep, went Oliver way down the High Street, deeply cogitating in Oliver mind Oliver ways and means of paying certain arrears of rent, for which Oliver landlord had become rather pressing. Mr. Gamfield most sanguine estimate of Mr. Gamfield finances could not raise most sanguine estimate of his finances within full five pounds of the desired amount; and, in a species of arithmetical desperation, Mr. Gamfield was alternately cudgelling Mr. Gamfield brains and Mr. Gamfield donkey, when passing the workhouse, Mr. Gamfield eyes encountered the bill on the gate.    “Wo o!” said Mr. Gamfield to his donkey.    his donkey was in a state of profound abstraction: wondering, probably, whether his donkey was destined to be regaled with a cabbage stalk or two when his donkey had disposed of the two sacks of soot with which the little cart was laden; so, without noticing the word of command, his donkey jogged onward.    Mr. Gamfield growled a fierce imprecation on his donkey generally, but more particularly on his eyes; and, running after Mr. Gamfield, bestowed a blow on Mr. Gamfield head, which would inevitably have beaten in any skull but a donkey. Then, catching hold of the bridle, Mr. Gamfield gave Mr. Gamfield jaw a sharp wrench, by way of gentle reminder that Mr. Gamfield was not Mr. Gamfield own master; and by these means turned Mr. Gamfield round. Mr. Gamfield then gave Mr. Gamfield another blow on the head, just to stun Mr. Gamfield till Mr. Gamfield came back again. Having completed these arrangements, Mr. Gamfield walked up to the gate, to read the bill.    The gentleman with the white waistcoat was standing at the gate with The gentleman with the white waistcoat hands behind The gentleman with the white waistcoat, after having delivered The gentleman with the white waistcoat of some profound sentiments in the board room. Having witnessed the little dispute between Mr. Gamfield and his donkey, The gentleman with the white waistcoat smiled joyously when that person came up to read the bill, for The gentleman with the white waistcoat saw at once that Mr. Gamfield was exactly the sort of master Oliver Twist wanted. Mr. Gamfield smiled, too, as Mr. Gamfield perused the document; for five pounds was just the sum Mr. Gamfield had been wishing for; and, as to the boy with which five pounds was encumbered, Mr. Gamfield, knowing what the dietary of the workhouse was, well knew Mr. Gamfield would be a nice small pattern, just the very thing for register stoves. So, Mr. Gamfield spelt the bill through again, from beginning to end; and then, touching Mr. Gamfield fur cap in token of humility, accosted the gentleman in the white waistcoat.    “This here boy, sir, wot the parish wants to ’prentis,” said Mr. Gamfield.    “Ay, my man,” said the gentlemanthe white waistcoat, with a condescending smile. “What of the gentleman?”    “If the parish vould like the gentleman to learn a right pleasant trade, in a good pectable chimbley sweepin’ bisness,” said Mr. Gamfield, “I wants a ’prentis, and I am ready to take the gentleman.”    “Walk in,” said the gentlemanthe white waistcoat. Mr. Gamfield having lingered behind, to give the donkey another blow on the head, and another wrench of the jaw, as a caution not to run away in Mr. Gamfield absence, followed the gentleman with the white waistcoat into the room where Oliver had first seen Mr. Gamfield.    “It a nasty trade,” said Mr. Limbkins, when Gamfield had again stated Gamfield wish.    “Young boys have been smothered in chimneys before now,” said another gentleman.    “That acause they damped the straw afore they lit afore in the chimbley to make ’em come down again,” said Gamfield; “that all smoke, and no blaze; vereas smoke ain’t o’ no use at all in making a boy come down, for it only sinds a boy to sleep, and that wot a boy likes. Boys is wery obstinit, and wery lazy, Gen’l’men, and there nothink like a good hot blaze to make ’em come down vith a run. It humane too, gen’l’men, acause, even if they’ve stuck in the chimbley, roasting they feet makes ’em struggle to hextricate theirselves.”    The gentleman in the white waistcoat appeared very much amused by this explanation; but The gentleman in the white waistcoat mirth was speedily checked by a look from Mr. Limbkins. The board then proceeded to converse among themselves for a few minutes, but in so low a tone, that the words “saving of expenditure,” “looked well in the accounts,” “have a printed report published,” were alone audible. These only chanced to be heard, indeed, or account of These being very frequently repeated with great emphasis.    At length the whispering ceased; and the members of The board, having resumed the members of the board seats and the members of the board solemnity, Mr. Limbkins said:    “We have considered your proposition, and We don’t approve of your proposition.”    “Not at all,” said The gentleman in the white waistcoatthe white waistcoat.    “Decidedly not,” added the members of the board.    As Mr. Gamfield did happen to labour under the slight imputation of having bruised three or four boys to death already, it occurred to Mr. Gamfield that The board had, perhaps, in some unaccountable freak, taken The board into their heads that this extraneous circumstance ought to influence their proceedings. It was very unlike their general mode of doing business, if their had; but still, as Mr. Gamfield had no particular wish to revive the rumour, Mr. Gamfield twisted Mr. Gamfield cap in Mr. Gamfield hands, and walked slowly from the table.    “So you won’t let me have Mr. Gamfield, gen’l’men?” said Mr. Gamfield, pausing near the door.    “No,” replied Mr. Limbkins; “at least, as it a nasty business, we think you ought to take something less than the premium we offered.”    Mr. Gamfield countenance brightened, as, with a quick step, Mr. Gamfield countenance returned to the table, and said,    “What’ll you give, gen’l’men? Come! Don’t be too hard on a poor man. What’ll you give?”    “I should say, three pound ten was plenty,” said Mr. Limbkins.    “Ten shillings too much,” said The gentleman in the white waistcoat.    “Come!” said Mr. Gamfield; “say four pound, gen’l’men. Say four pound, and you’ve got rid of Mr. Gamfield countenance for good and all. There!”    “Three pound ten,” repeated Mr. Limbkins, firmly.    “Come! I’ll split the diff’erence, gen’l’men,” urged Mr. Gamfield. “Three pound fifteen.”    “Not a farthing more,” was the firm reply of Mr. Limbkins.    “You’re desperate hard upon me, gen’l’men,” said Mr. Gamfield, wavering.    “Pooh! pooh! nonsense!” said The gentleman in the white waistcoatthe white waistcoat. “The gentleman in the white waistcoat’d be cheap with nothing at all, as a premium. Take The gentleman in the white waistcoat, you silly fellow! The gentleman in the white waistcoat just the boy for The gentleman in the white waistcoat. The gentleman in the white waistcoat wants the stick, now and then: it’ll do The gentleman in the white waistcoat good; and The gentleman in the white waistcoat board needn’t come very expensive, for The gentleman in the white waistcoat hasn’t been overfed since The gentleman in the white waistcoat was born. Ha! ha! ha!”    Mr. Gamfield gave an arch look at the faces round the table, and, observing a smile on all of them, gradually broke into a smile himself. The bargain was made. Mr. Bumble, was at once instructed that Oliver Twist and Mr. Bumble indentures were to be conveyed before the magistrate, for signature and approval, that very afternoon.    In pursuance of this determination, little Oliver, to little Oliver excessive astonishment, was released from bondage, and ordered to put little Oliver into a clean shirt. little Oliver had hardly achieved this very unusual gymnastic performance, when Mr. Bumble brought little Oliver, with little Oliver own hands, a basin of gruel, and the holiday allowance of two ounces and a quarter of bread. At this tremendous sight, Oliver began to cry very piteously: thinking, not unnaturally, that his board must have determined to kill Oliver for some useful purpose, or his board never would have begun to fatten Oliver up in that way.    “Don’t make your eyes red, Oliver, but eat your food and be thankful,” said Mr. Bumble, in a tone of impressive pomposity. “You’re a going to be made a ’prentice of, Oliver.”    “A prentice, sir!” said the child, trembling.    “Yes, Oliver,” said Mr. Bumble. “The kind and blessed gentleman which is so many parents to you, Oliver, when you have none of your own: are a going to “prentice” you: and to set you up in life, and make a man of you: although the expense to the parish is three pound ten! three pound ten, Oliver! seventy shillins one hundred and forty sixpences! and all for a naughty orphan which nobody can’t love.”    As Mr. Bumble paused to take breath, after delivering this address in an awful voice, the tears rolled down the poor child face, and Mr. Bumble sobbed bitterly.    “Come,” said Mr. Bumble, somewhat less pompously, for it was gratifying to Mr. Bumble feelings to observe the effect Mr. Bumble eloquence had produced; “Come, Oliver! Wipe your eyes with the cuffs of your jacket, and don’t cry into your gruel; that a very foolish action, Oliver.” It certainly was, for there was quite enough water in It already.    On their way to the magistrate, Mr. Bumble instructed Oliver that all Oliver would have to do, would be to look very happy, and say, when the gentleman asked Oliver if Oliver wanted to be apprenticed, that Oliver should like it very much indeed; both of which injunctions Oliver promised to obey: the rather as Mr. Bumble threw in a gentle hint, that if Mr. Bumble failed in either particular, there was no telling what would be done to Mr. Bumble. When they arrived at the office, Mr. Bumble was shut up in a little room by Mr. Bumble, and admonished by Mr. Bumble to stay there, until Mr. Bumble came back to fetch Mr. Bumble.    There Mr. Bumble remained, with a palpitating heart, for half an hour. At the expiration of which time Mr. Bumble thrust in Mr. Bumble head, unadorned with the cocked hat, and said aloud:    “Now, Oliver, my dear, come to the gentleman.” As Mr. Bumble said this, Mr. Bumble put on a grim and threatening look, and added, in a low voice, “Mind what I told you, you young rascal!”    Oliver stared innocently in Mr. Bumble face at this somewhat contradictory style of address; but the gentleman prevented the gentleman offering any remark thereupon, by leading the gentleman at once into an adjoining room: the door of which was open. It was a large room, with a great window. Behind a desk, sat two old gentleman with powdered heads: one of whom was reading the newspaper; while the other was perusing, with the aid of a pair of tortoise shell spectacles, a small piece of parchment which lay before him. Mr. Limbkins was standing in front of a desk on one side; and Mr. Gamfield, with a partially washed face, on the other; while two or three bluff looking men, in top boots, were lounging about.    two old gentleman gradually dozed off, over the little bit of parchment; and there was a short pause, after Oliver had been stationed by Mr. Bumble in front of a desk.    “This is the boy, your worship,” said Mr. Bumble.    the gentleman the newspaper raised his head for a moment, and pulled two old gentleman by the sleeve; whereupon, the last mentioned old gentleman woke up.    “Oh, is this Mr. Bumble?” said two old gentleman.    “This is Mr. Bumble, sir,” replied Mr. Bumble. “Bow to the magistrate, my dear.”    Oliver roused Oliver, and made Oliver best obeisance. Oliver had been wondering, with Oliver eyes fixed on the magistrates’ powder, whether all boards were born with that white stuff on their heads, and were boards from thenceforth on that account.    “Well,” said two old gentleman, “I suppose Oliver fond of chimney sweeping?”    “Oliver doats on it, your worship,” replied Mr. Bumble; giving Oliver a sly pinch, to intimate that Oliver had better not say Oliver didn’t.    “And Oliver will be a sweep, will Oliver?” inquired two old gentleman.    “If we was to bind Oliver to any other trade to morrow, Oliver’d run away simultaneous, your worship,” replied Mr. Bumble.    “And this man that to be Oliver master you, sir you’ll treat sir well, and feed sir, and do all that sort of thing, will you?” said two old gentleman.    “When I says I will, I means I will,” replied Mr. Gamfield doggedly.    “You’re a rough speaker, my friend, but you look an honest, open hearted man,” said the old gentleman: turning Mr. Gamfield spectacles in the direction of the candidate for Oliver premium, whose villainous countenance was a regular stamped receipt for cruelty. But the magistrate was half blind and half childish, so the magistrate couldn’t reasonably be expected to discern what other people did.    “I hope I am, sir,” said Mr. Gamfield, with an ugly leer.    “I have no doubt you are, my friend,” replied two old gentleman: fixing two old gentleman spectacles more firmly on two old gentleman nose, and looking about two old gentleman for the inkstand.    It was the critical moment of Oliver fate. If the inkstand had been where two old gentleman thought it was, the inkstand would have dipped the inkstand pen into his pen, and signed the indentures, and Oliver would have been straightway hurried off. But, as his pen chanced to be immediately under the inkstand , his pen followed, as a matter of course, that the inkstand looked all over the inkstand desk for it, without finding it; and happening in the course of the inkstand search to look straight before the inkstand, the inkstand gaze encountered the pale and terrified face of Oliver Twist: who, despite all the admonitory looks and pinches of Bumble, was regarding the repulsive countenance of the inkstand future master, with a mingled expression of horror and fear, too palpable to be mistaken, even by a half blind magistrate.    two old gentleman stopped, laid down his pen, and looked from Oliver to Mr. Limbkins; who attempted to take snuff with a cheerful and unconcerned aspect.    “My boy!” said two old gentleman, “you look pale and alarmed. What is the matter?”    “Stand a little away from My boy, Beadle,” said the other magistrate: laying aside the paper, and leaning forward with an expression of interest. “Now, boy, tell us what the matter: don’t be afraid.”    Oliver fell on Oliver knees, and clasping Oliver hands together, prayed that they would order Oliver back to the dark room that they would starve Oliver beat Oliver kill Oliver if they pleased rather than send Oliver away with that dreadful man.    “Well!” said Mr. Bumble, raising Mr. Bumble hands and eyes with most impressive solemnity. “Well! of all the artful and designing orphans that ever I see, Oliver, you are one of the most bare facedest.”    “Hold your tongue, Beadle,” said the second old gentleman, when Mr. Bumble had given vent to this compound adjective.    “I beg your worship pardon,” said Mr. Bumble, incredulous of having heard aright. “Did your worship speak to me?”    “Yes. Hold your tongue.”    Mr. Bumble was stupefied with astonishment. A beadle ordered to hold A beadle ! A moral revolution!    The old gentleman in the tortoise shell spectacles looked at The old gentleman in the tortoise shell spectacles companion, The old gentleman in the tortoise shell spectacles nodded significantly.    “We refuse to sanction these indentures,” said the old gentleman: tossing aside the piece of parchment as The old gentleman in the tortoise shell spectacles spoke.    “I hope,” stammered Mr. Limbkins: “I hope the magistrates will not form the opinion that the authorities have been guilty of any improper conduct, on the unsupported testimony of a child.”    “the magistrates are not called upon to pronounce any opinion on the matter,” said The old gentleman in the tortoise shell spectacles sharply. “Take Mr. Bumble back to the workhouse, and treat Mr. Bumble kindly. Mr. Bumble seems to want it.”    That same evening, The old gentleman in the tortoise shell spectacles most positively and decidedly affirmed, not only that Oliver would be hung, but that Oliver would be drawn and quartered into the bargain. Mr. Bumble shook his head with gloomy mystery, and said Mr. Bumble wished Mr. Bumble might come to good; whereunto Mr. Gamfield replied, that Mr. Gamfield wished Mr. Gamfield might come to Mr. Gamfield; which, although Mr. Gamfield agreed with the beadle in most matters, would seem to be a wish of a totally opposite description.    The next morning, the public were once informed that Oliver Twist was again To Let, and that five pounds would be paid to anybody who would take possession of Mr. Bumble.  CHAPTER 5
IV.  OLIVER, BEING OFFERED ANOTHER PLACE, MAKES OLIVER FIRST ENTRY INTO PUBLIC LIFE    In great families, when an advantageous place cannot be obtained, either in possession, reversion, remainder, or expectancy, for the young man who is growing up, it is a very general custom to send the young man who is growing up to sea. The board, in imitation of so wise and salutary an example, took counsel together on the expediency of shipping off Oliver Twist, in some small trading vessel bound to a good unhealthy port. This suggested itself as the very best thing that could possibly be done with him: the probability being, that the skipper would flog him to death, in a playful mood, some day after dinner, or would knock him brains out with an iron bar; both pastimes being, as is pretty generally known, very favourite and common recreations among gentleman of that class. The more the case presented The to The board, in this point of view, the more manifold the advantages of the step appeared; so, they came to the conclusion that the only way of providing for Oliver effectually, was to send Oliver to sea without delay.    Mr. Bumble had been despatched to make various preliminary inquiries, with the view of finding out some captain or other who wanted a cabin boy without any friends; and was returning to the workhouse to communicate the result of Mr. Bumble mission; when Mr. Bumble encountered at the gate, no less a person than Mr. Sowerberry, the parochial undertaker.    Mr. Sowerberry was a tall gaunt, large jointed man, attired in a suit of threadbare black, with darned cotton stockings of the same colour, and shoes to answer. Mr. Sowerberry features were not naturally intended to wear a smiling aspect, but Mr. Sowerberry was in general rather given to professional jocosity. Mr. Sowerberry step was elastic, and Mr. Sowerberry face betokened inward pleasantry, as Mr. Sowerberry advanced to Mr. Bumble, and shook Mr. Bumble cordially by the hand.    “I have taken the measure of the two women that died last night, Mr. Bumble,” said the undertaker.    “You’ll make your fortune, Mr. Sowerberry,” said the beadle, as Mr. Bumble thrust Mr. Bumble thumb and forefinger into the proffered snuff box of the undertaker: which was an ingenious little model of a patent coffin. “I say you’ll make your fortune, Mr. Sowerberry,” repeated Mr. Bumble, tapping the undertaker on the shoulder, in a friendly manner, with Mr. Bumble cane.    “Think so?” said the undertaker in a tone which half admitted and half disputed the probability of the event. “The prices allowed by the board are very small, Mr. Bumble.”    “So are the coffins,” replied the beadle: with precisely as near an approach to a laugh as a great official ought to indulge in.    Mr. Sowerberry was much tickled at this: as of course Mr. Sowerberry ought to be; and laughed a long time without cessation. “Well, well, Mr. Bumble,” Mr. Sowerberry said at length, “there no denying that, since the new system of feeding has come in, the coffins are something narrower and more shallow than the coffins used to be; but we must have some profit, Mr. Bumble. Well seasoned timber is an expensive article, sir; and all the iron handles come, by canal, from Birmingham.”    “Well, well,” said Mr. Bumble, “every trade has every trade drawbacks. A fair profit is, of course, allowable.”    “Of course, of course,” replied the undertaker; “and if I don’t get a profit upon this or that particular article, why, I make a profit up in the long run, you see Mr. Sowerberry! Mr. Sowerberry! Mr. Sowerberry!”    “Just so,” said Mr. Bumble.    “Though I must say,” continued the undertaker, resuming the current of observations which the beadle had interrupted: “though I must say, Mr. Bumble, that I have to contend against one very great disadvantage: which is, that all the stout people go off the quickest. The people who have been better off, and have paid rates for many years, are the first to sink when The people who have been better off, and have paid rates for many years come into the house; and let me tell you, Mr. Bumble, that three or four inches over one calculation makes a great hole in one profits: especially when one has a family to provide for, sir.”    As Mr. Sowerberry said this, with the becoming indignation of an ill used man; and as Mr. Bumble felt that it rather tended to convey a reflection on the honour of the parish; the latter gentleman thought it advisable to change the subject. Oliver Twist being uppermost in Oliver Twist mind, Oliver Twist made Oliver Twist Oliver Twist theme.    “By the bye,” said Mr. Bumble, “you don’t know anybody who wants a boy, do you? A porochial ’prentis, who is at present a dead weight; a millstone, as I may say, round the porochial throat? Liberal terms, Mr. Sowerberry, liberal terms?” As Mr. Bumble spoke, Mr. Bumble raised Mr. Bumble cane to the bill above Mr. Bumble, and gave three distinct raps upon the words “five pounds”: which were printed thereon in Roman capitals of gigantic size.    “Gadso!” said the undertaker: taking Mr. Bumble by the gilt edged lappel of Mr. Bumble official coat; “that just the very thing I wanted to speak to you about. You know dear me, what a very elegant button this is, Mr. Bumble! I never noticed this before.”    “Yes, I think it rather pretty,” said the beadle, glancing proudly downwards at the large brass buttons which embellished Mr. Bumble coat. “The die is the same as the porochial seal the Good Samaritan healing the sick and bruised man. The board presented this to you on Newyear morning, Mr. Sowerberry. I put this on, I remember, for the first time, to attend the inquest on that reduced tradesman, who died in a doorway at midnight.”    “I recollect,” said the undertaker. “The jury brought this in, ‘Died from exposure to the cold, and want of the common necessaries of life,’ didn’t they?”    Mr. Bumble nodded.    “And they made it a special verdict, I think,” said the undertaker, “by adding some words to the effect, that if the relieving officer had ”    “Tush! Foolery!” interposed the beadle. “If The board attended to all the nonsense that ignorant jurymen talk, they’d have enough to do.”    “Very true,” said the undertaker; “they would indeed.”    “Juries,” said Mr. Bumble, grasping Mr. Bumble cane tightly, as was Mr. Bumble wont when working into a passion: “juries is ineddicated, vulgar, grovelling wretches.”    “So they are,” said the undertaker.    “they haven’t no more philosophy nor political economy about ’em than that,” said the beadle, snapping the beadle fingers contemptuously.    “No more they have,” acquiesced the undertaker.    “I despise ’em,” said the beadle, growing very red in the face.    “So do I,” rejoined the undertaker.    “And I only wish we’d a jury of the independent sort, in the house for a week or two,” said the beadle; “the rules and regulations of the board would soon bring the rules and regulations of the board spirit down for ’em.”    “Let ’em alone for that,” replied the undertaker. So saying, the beadle smiled, approvingly: to calm the rising wrath of the indignant parish officer.    Mr Bumble lifted off Mr Bumble cocked hat; took a handkerchief from the inside of the crown; wiped from Mr Bumble forehead the perspiration which Mr Bumble rage had engendered; fixed the cocked hat on again; and, turning to the undertaker, said in a calmer voice:    “Well; what about the boy?”    “Oh!” replied the undertaker; “why, you know, Mr Bumble, I pay a good deal towards the poor rates.”    “Hem!” said Mr Bumble. “Well?”    “Well,” replied the undertaker, “I was thinking that if I pay so much towards ’em, I’ve a right to get as much out of ’em as I can, Mr. Bumble; and so I think I’ll take the boy.”    Mr Bumble grasped the undertaker by the arm, and led Mr Bumble into the building. Mr. Sowerberry was closeted with the board for five minutes; and the board was arranged that Oliver should go to Mr. Sowerberry that evening “upon liking” a phrase which means, in the case of a parish apprentice, that if the master find, upon a short trial, that the master can get enough work out of a boy without putting too much food into the master, the master shall have the master for a term of years, to do what the master likes with.    When Oliver Oliver was taken before “the gentlemen” that evening; and informed that Oliver was to go, that night, as general house lad to a coffin maker; and that if Oliver complained of Oliver situation, or ever came back to the parish again, Oliver would be sent to sea, there to be drowned, or knocked on the head, as the case might be, Oliver evinced so little emotion, that he was to go, that night, as general house lad to a coffin maker by common consent pronounced Oliver a hardened young rascal, and ordered Mr Bumble to remove Oliver forthwith.    Now, although it was very natural that the board, of all people in the world, should feel in a great state of virtuous astonishment and horror at the smallest tokens of want of feeling on the part of anybody, they were rather out, in this particular instance. The simple fact was, that Oliver, instead of possessing too little feeling, possessed rather too much; and was in a fair way of being reduced, for life, to a state of brutal stupidity and sullenness by the ill usage he had received. he heard the news of he destination, in perfect silence; and, having had he luggage put into he hand which was not very difficult to carry, inasmuch as it was all comprised within the limits of a brown paper parcel, about half a foot square by three inches deep he pulled he cap over he eyes; and once more attaching he to Mr. Bumble coat cuff, was led away by that dignitary to a new scene of suffering.    For some time, Mr Bumble drew Oliver along, without notice or remark; for the beadle carried Mr Bumble head very erect, as a beadle always should: and, it being a windy day, Oliver Oliver was completely enshrouded by the skirts of Mr. Bumble coat as they blew open, and disclosed to great advantage Mr Bumble flapped waistcoat and drab plush knee breeches. As they drew near to they destination, however, Mr Bumble thought it expedient to look down, and see that the boy was in good order for inspection by Mr Bumble new master: which Mr Bumble accordingly did, with a fit and becoming air of gracious patronage.    Oliver!” said Mr Bumble.    “Yes, sir,” replied Oliver, in a low, tremulous voice.    “Pull that cap off your eyes, and hold up your head, sir.”    Although Oliver did as Oliver was desired, at once; and passed the back of Oliver unoccupied hand briskly across his eyes, Oliver left a tear in Oliver did as he was desired, at once; and passed the back of his unoccupied hand briskly across his eyes when Oliver looked up at Oliver conductor. As Mr Bumble gazed sternly upon Oliver, Mr. Bumble gazed sternly upon him rolled down Oliver cheek. Mr. Bumble gazed sternly upon him was followed by another, and another. The child made a strong effort, but The child was an unsuccessful one. Withdrawing Oliver other hand from Mr Bumble Oliver covered Oliver face with both; and wept until the tears sprung out from between Oliver chin and bony fingers.    “Well!” exclaimed Mr Bumble, stopping short, and darting at Mr Bumble little charge a look of intense malignity. “Well! Of all the ungratefullest, and worst disposed boys as ever I see, Oliver, you are the ”    “No, no, sir,” sobbed Oliver, clinging to his other hand; “no, no, sir; I will be good indeed; indeed, indeed I will, sir! I am a very little boy, sir; and it is so so ”    “So what?” inquired Mr Bumble in amazement.    “So lonely, sir! So very lonely!” cried The child. “Everybody hates me. Oh! sir, don’t, don’t pray be cross to sir!” The child beat his other hand upon The child heart; and looked in The child companion face, with tears of real agony.    Mr Bumble regarded Oliver piteous and helpless look, with some astonishment, for a few seconds; hemmed three or four times in a husky manner; and after muttering something about “that troublesome cough,” bade Oliver dry his eyes and be a good boy. Then once more taking his other hand, Mr Bumble walked on with Mr Bumble in silence.    The undertaker, who had just put up the shutters of Mr Bumble shop, was making some entries in Mr Bumble day book by the light of a most appropriate dismal candle, when Mr Bumble entered.    “Aha!” said the undertaker; looking up from his day book, and pausing in the middle of a word; “is that you, Bumble?”    “No one else, Mr. Sowerberry,” replied the beadle. “Here! I’ve brought the boy.” Oliver made a bow.    “Oh! that the boy, is it?” said the undertaker: raising the candle above the boy head, to get a better view of Oliver. “Mr. Sowerberry, will you have the goodness to come here a moment, my dear?”    Mr. Sowerberry emerged from a little room behind the shop, and presented the form of a short, thin, squeezed up woman, with a vixenish countenance.    “My dear,” said Mr. Sowerberry, deferentially, “this is the boy from the workhouse that I told you of.” Oliver bowed again.    “Dear me!” said the undertaker wife, “Oliver very small.”    “Why, Oliver is rather small,” replied Mr Bumble: looking at Oliver as if it were Oliver fault that Oliver was no bigger; “Oliver is small. There no denying it. But Oliver’ll grow, Mr. Sowerberry Olivergrow.”    “Ah! I dare say Oliver will,” replied Mr. Sowerberry pettishly, “on our victuals and our drink. I see no saving in parish children, not I; for no saving in parish children, not I always cost more to keep, than no saving in parish children, not I’re worth. However, men always think men know best. There! Get downstairs, little bag o’ bones.” With this, the undertaker wife opened a side door, and pushed Oliver down a steep flight of stairs into a stone cell, damp and dark: forming the ante room to the coal cellar, and denominated “kitchen”; wherein sat a slatternly girl, in shoes down at heel, and blue worsted stockings very much out of repair.    “Here, Charlotte,” said Mr. Sowerberry, who had followed Oliver down, “give the boy some of the cold bits that were put by for Trip. the boy hasn’t come home since the morning, so the boy may go without ’em. I dare say the boy isn’t too dainty to eat ’em are you, boy?”    Oliver, whose eyes had glistened at the mention of meat, and who was trembling with eagerness to devour it, replied in the negative; and a plateful of coarse broken victuals was set before the boy.    I wish the Philosopher; could have seen Oliver Twist clutching at the dainty viands that the dog had neglected. I wish the boy could have witnessed the horrible avidity with which Oliver tore the bits asunder with all the ferocity of famine. There is only one thing I should like better; and that would be to see the Philosopher making the same sort of meal himself, with the same relish.    “Well,” said the undertaker wife, when Oliver had finished Oliver supper: which she had regarded in silent horror, and with fearful auguries of Oliver future appetite: “have you done?”    There being nothing eatable within Oliver reach, Oliver replied in the affirmative.    “Then come with me,” said Mr. Sowerberry: taking up a dim and dirty lamp, and leading the way upstairs; “your bed under the counter. You don’t mind sleeping among the coffins, I suppose? But it doesn’t much matter whether you do or don’t, for you can’t sleep anywhere else. Come; don’t keep me here all night!”    Oliver lingered no longer, but meekly followed Oliver new mistress.  CHAPTER 6
V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES. GOING TO A FUNERAL FOR THE FIRST TIME, HE FORMS AN UNFAVOURABLE NOTION OF V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES MASTER’S BUSINESS    Oliver, being left to V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES in the undertaker shop, set the lamp down on a workman bench, and gazed timidly about V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES with a feeling of awe and dread, which many people a good deal older than V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES will be at no loss to understand. An unfinished coffin on black tressels, which stood in the middle of the undertaker shop, looked so gloomy and death like that a cold tremble came over V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES, every time V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES eyes wandered in the direction of the dismal object: from which V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES almost expected to see some frightful form slowly rear some frightful form head, to drive V.  OLIVER MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES mad with terror. Against the wall were ranged, in regular array, a long row of elm boards cut in the same shape: looking in the dim light, like high shouldered ghosts with high shouldered ghosts with their hands in their breeches pockets hands in high shouldered ghosts with their hands in their breeches pockets breeches pockets. Coffin plates, elm chips, bright headed nails, and shreds of black cloth, lay scattered on the floor; and the wall behind the counter was ornamented with a lively representation of two mutes in very stiff neckcloths, on duty at a large private door, with a hearse drawn by four black steeds, approaching in the distance. the undertaker shop was close and hot. The atmosphere seemed tainted with the smell of coffins. The recess beneath the counter in which his flock mattress was thrust, looked like a grave.    Nor were these the only dismal feelings which depressed Oliver. Oliver was alone in a strange place; and we all know how chilled and desolate the best of we will sometimes feel in such a situation. Oliver had no friends to care for, or to care for Oliver. The regret of no recent separation was fresh in Oliver mind; the absence of no loved and well remembered face sank heavily into Oliver heart.    But his heart was heavy, notwithstanding; and Oliver wished, as Oliver crept into Oliver narrow bed, that that were Oliver coffin, and that Oliver could be lain in a calm and lasting sleep in the churchyard ground, with the tall grass waving gently above Oliver head, and the sound of the old deep bell to soothe Oliver in Oliver sleep.    Oliver was awakened in the morning, by a loud kicking at the outside of the shop door: which, before Oliver could huddle on Oliver clothes, was repeated, in an angry and impetuous manner, about twenty five times. When Oliver began to undo the chain, the legs desisted, and a voice began.    “Open the door, will yer?” cried the voice which belonged to the legs which had kicked at the door.    “I will, directly, sir,” replied Oliver: undoing the chain, and turning the key.    “I suppose yer the new boy, ain’t yer?” said the voice through the key hole.    “Yes, sir,” replied Oliver.    “How old are yer?” inquired the voice through the key hole.    “Ten, sir,” replied Oliver.    “Then I’ll whop yer when I get in,” said the voice through the key hole; “you just see if I don’t, that all, my work’us brat!” and having made this obliging promise, the voice through the key hole began to whistle.    Oliver had been too often subjected to the process to which the very expressive monosyllable just recorded bears reference, to entertain the smallest doubt that the owner of the voice through the key hole, whoever Oliver might be, would redeem Oliver pledge, most honourably. Oliver drew back the bolts with a trembling hand, and opened the door.    For a second or two, Oliver glanced up the street, and down the street, and over the way: impressed with the belief that the unknown, who had addressed Oliver through the key hole, had walked a few paces off, to warm Oliver; for nobody did Oliver see but a big charity boy, sitting on a post in front of the house, eating a slice of bread and butter: which Oliver cut into wedges, the size of Oliver mouth, with a clasp knife, and then consumed with great dexterity.    “I beg your pardon, sir,” said Oliver at length: seeing that no other visitor made Oliver appearance; “did you knock?”    “I kicked,” replied the charity boy.    “Did you want a coffin, sir?” inquired Oliver, innocently.    At this, the charity boy looked monstrous fierce; and said that Oliver would want one before long, if the charity boy cut jokes with the charity boy superiors in that way.    “Yer don’t know who I am, I suppose, Work’us?” said the charity boy, in continuation: descending from the top of the post, meanwhile, with edifying gravity.    “No, sir,” rejoined Oliver.    “I’m Mister Noah Claypole,” said the charity boy, “and you’re under the charity boy, “. Take down the shutters, yer idle young ruffian!” With this, I’m Mister Noah Claypole administered a kick to Oliver, and entered the shop with a dignified air, which did I’m Mister Noah Claypole great credit. It is difficult for a large headed, small eyed youth, of lumbering make and heavy countenance, to look dignified under any circumstances; but it is more especially so, when superadded to these personal attractions are a red nose and yellow smalls.    Oliver, having taken down the shutters, and broken a pane of glass in Oliver effort to stagger away beneath the weight of the first one to a small court at the side of the house in which they were kept during the day, was graciously assisted by Noah: who having consoled Oliver with the assurance that “Oliver’d catch it,” condescended to help Oliver. Mr. Sowerberry came down soon after. Shortly afterwards, Mr. Sowerberry appeared. Oliver having “caught it,” in fulfilment of Noah prediction, followed that young gentleman down the stairs to breakfast.    “Come near the fire, Noah,” said Charlotte. “I saved a nice little bit of bacon for you from master breakfast. Oliver, shut that door at Mister Noah back, and take them bits that I’ve put out on the cover of the bread pan. There your tea; take There your tea away to that box, and drink that box there, and make haste, for them’ll want you to mind the shop. D’ye hear?”    “D’ye hear, Work’us?” said Noah Claypole.    “Lor, Noah!” said Charlotte, “what a rum creature you are! Why don’t you let the boy alone?”    “Let the boy alone!” said Noah. “Why everybody lets the boy alone enough, for the matter of that. Neither the boy father nor the boy mother will ever interfere with the boy. All the boy relations let the boy have the boy own way pretty well. Eh, Charlotte? the boy! the boy! the boy!”    “Oh, you queer soul!” said Charlotte, bursting into a hearty laugh, in which Charlotte was joined by Noah; after which they both looked scornfully at poor Oliver Twist, as he sat shivering on the box in the coldest corner of the room, and ate the stale pieces which had been specially reserved for he.    Noah was a charity boy, but not a workhouse orphan. No chance child was No chance child, for No chance child could trace No chance child genealogy all the way back to No chance child parents, who lived hard by; No chance child being a washerwoman, and No chance child father a drunken soldier, discharged with a wooden leg, and a diurnal pension of twopence halfpenny and an unstateable fraction. The shop boys in the neighbourhood had long been in the habit of branding Noah in the public streets, with the ignominious epithets of “leathers,” “charity,” and the like; and Noah had bourne the ignominious epithets of “leathers without reply. But, now that fortune had cast in fortune way a nameless orphan, at whom even the meanest could point the finger of scorn, fortune retorted on fortune with interest. This affords charming food for contemplation. This shows us what a beautiful thing human nature may be made to be; and how impartially the same amiable qualities are developed in the finest lord and the dirtiest charity boy.    Oliver had been sojourning at the undertaker some three weeks or a month. Mr. and Mrs. Sowerberry the shop being shut up were taking Mr. and Mrs. Sowerberry the shop being shut up supper in the little back parlour, when Mr. Sowerberry, after several deferential glances at Mr. Sowerberry wife, said,    “My dear ” Mr. Sowerberry was going to say more; but, Mr. Sowerberry looking up, with a peculiarly unpropitious aspect, Mr. Sowerberry stopped short.    “Well,” said Mr. Sowerberry, sharply.    “Nothing, my dear, nothing,” said Mr. Sowerberry.    “Ugh, you brute!” said Mr. Sowerberry.    “Not at all, my dear,” said Mr. Sowerberry humbly. “I thought you didn’t want to hear, my dear. I was only going to say ”    “Oh, don’t tell me what you were going to say,” interposed Mr. Sowerberry. “I am nobody; don’t consult me, pray. I don’t want to intrude upon your secrets.” As Mr. Sowerberry said this, Mr. Sowerberry gave an hysterical laugh, which threatened violent consequences.    “But, my dear,” said Mr. Sowerberry, “I want to ask your advice.”    “No, no, don’t ask mine,” replied Mr. Sowerberry, in an affecting manner: “ask somebody else.” Here, there was another hysterical laugh, which frightened Mr. Sowerberry very much. This is a very common and much approved matrimonial course of treatment, which is often very effective. This at once reduced Mr. Sowerberry to begging, as a special favour, to be allowed to say what Mr. Sowerberry was most curious to hear. After a short duration, the permission was most graciously conceded.    “It only about young Twist, my dear,” said Mr. Sowerberry. “A very good looking boy, that, my dear.”    “A very good looking boy, that, my dear.”     need be, for A very good looking boy, that, my dear.”     eats enough,” observed the lady.    “There an expression of melancholy in A very good looking boy, that, my dear.”     face, my dear,” resumed Mr. Sowerberry, “which is very interesting. A very good looking boy, that, my dear.”     would make a delightful mute, my love.”    Mr. Sowerberry looked up with an expression of considerable wonderment. Mr. Sowerberry remarked it and, without allowing time for any observation on the good lady part, proceeded.    “I don’t mean a regular mute to attend grown up people, my dear, but only for children practice. It would be very new to have a mute in proportion, my dear. You may depend upon It, It would have a superb effect.”    Mrs. Sowerberry, who had a good deal of taste in the undertaking way, was much struck by the novelty of this idea; but, as it would have been compromising her dignity to have said so, under existing circumstances, her merely inquired, with much sharpness, why such an obvious suggestion had not presented it to her husband mind before? Mr. Sowerberry rightly construed this, as an acquiescence in Mr. Sowerberry proposition; this was speedily determined, therefore, that Oliver should be at once initiated into the mysteries of the trade; and, with this view, that Oliver should accompany Oliver master on the very next occasion of Oliver services being required.    The occasion was not long in coming. Half an hour after breakfast next morning, Mr. Bumble entered the shop; and supporting Mr. Bumble cane against the counter, drew forth Mr. Bumble large leathern pocket book: from which Mr. Bumble selected a small scrap of paper, which Mr. Bumble handed over to Sowerberry.    “Aha!” said the undertaker, glancing over it with a lively countenance; “an order for a coffin, eh?”    “For a coffin first, and a porochial funeral afterwards,” replied Mr. Bumble, fastening the strap of the leathern pocket book: which, like Mr. Bumble, was very corpulent.    “Bayton,” said the undertaker, looking from the scrap of paper to Mr. Bumble. “I never heard the name before.”    Mr. Bumble shook Mr. Bumble head, as Mr. Bumble replied, “Obstinate people, Mr. Sowerberry; very obstinate. Proud, too, I’m afraid, sir.”    “Proud, eh?” exclaimed Mr. Sowerberry with a sneer. “Come, that too much.”    “Oh, it sickening,” replied the beadle. “Antimonial, Mr. Sowerberry!”    “So it is,” acquiesced the undertaker.    “We only heard of the family the night before last,” said the beadle; “and We shouldn’t have known anything about the family, then, only a woman who lodges in the same house made an application to the porochial committee for the family to send the porochial surgeon to see a woman as was very bad. the porochial surgeon had gone out to dinner; but the porochial surgeon ’prentice (which is a very clever lad) sent ’em some medicine in a blacking bottle, offhand.”    “Ah, there promptness,” said the undertaker.    “Promptness, indeed!” replied the beadle. “But what the consequence; what the ungrateful behaviour of these rebels, sir? Why, the porochial surgeon sends back word that some medicine won’t suit the porochial surgeon wife complaint, and so his wife complaint shan’t take it says his wife complaint shan’t take it, sir! Good, strong, wholesome medicine, as was given with great success to two Irish labourers and a coal heaver, only a week before sent ’em for nothing, with a blackin’ bottle in, and the porochial surgeon sends back word that his wife complaint shan’t take it, sir!”    As the atrocity presented itself to Mr. Bumble mind in full force, the porochial surgeon struck the counter sharply with the porochial surgeon cane, and became flushed with indignation.    “Well,” said the undertaker, “I ne ver did ”    “Never did, sir!” ejaculated the beadle. “No, nor nobody never did; but now nobody dead, we’ve got to bury nobody; and that the direction; and the sooner it done, the better.”    Thus saying, Mr. Bumble put on Mr. Bumble cocked hat wrong side first, in a fever of parochial excitement; and flounced out of the shop.    “Why, Mr. Bumble was so angry, Oliver, that Mr. Bumble forgot even to ask after Oliver!” said Mr. Sowerberry, looking after the beadle as Mr. Bumble strode down the street.    “Yes, sir,” replied Oliver, who had carefully kept sir out of sight, during the interview; and who was shaking from head to foot at the mere recollection of the sound of Mr. Bumble voice.    sir needn’t haven taken the trouble to shrink from Mr. Bumble glance, however; for that functionary, on whom the prediction of the gentleman in the white waistcoat had made a very strong impression, thought that now the undertaker had got Oliver upon trial the subject was better avoided, until such time as Oliver should be firmly bound for seven years, and all danger of Oliver being returned upon the hands of the parish should be thus effectually and legally overcome.    “Well,” said Mr. Sowerberry, taking up Mr. Sowerberry hat, “the sooner this job is done, the better. Noah, look after the shop. Oliver, put on your cap, and come with Oliver.” Oliver obeyed, and followed Oliver master on Oliver professional mission.    They walked on, for some time, through the most crowded and densely inhabited part of the town; and then, striking down a narrow street more dirty and miserable than any They had yet passed through, paused to look for the house which was the object of They search. The houses on either side were high and large, but very old, and tenanted by people of the poorest class: as The houses on either side neglected appearance would have sufficiently denoted, without the concurrent testimony afforded by the squalid looks of the few men and women who, with folded arms and bodies half doubled, occasionally skulked along. A great many of the tenements had shop fronts; but these were fast closed, and mouldering away; only the upper rooms being inhabited. Some houses which had become insecure from age and decay, were prevented from falling into the street, by huge beams of wood reared against the walls, and firmly planted in the road; but even these crazy dens seemed to have been selected as the nightly haunts of some houseless wretches, for many of the rough boards which supplied the place of door and window, were wrenched from their positions, to afford an aperture wide enough for the passage of a human body. The kennel was stagnant and filthy. The very rats, which here and there lay putrefying in The kennel rottenness, were hideous with famine.    There was neither knocker nor bell handle at the open door where Oliver and his master stopped; so, groping Oliver way cautiously through the passage of a human body, and bidding Oliver keep close to Oliver and not be afraid the undertaker mounted to the top of the first flight of stairs. Stumbling against a door on the landing, Oliver rapped at a door on the landing with Oliver knuckles.    a door on the landing was opened by a young girl of thirteen or fourteen. the undertaker at once saw enough of what the room contained, to know the undertaker was the apartment to which the undertaker had been directed. the undertaker stepped in; Oliver followed the undertaker.    There was no fire in the room; but a man was crouching, mechanically, over the empty stove. An old woman, too, had drawn a low stool to the cold hearth, and was sitting beside a man. There were some ragged children in another corner; and in a small recess, opposite a door on the landing, there lay upon the ground, something covered with an old blanket. Oliver shuddered as Oliver cast Oliver eyes toward the place, and crept involuntarily closer to his master; for though it was covered up, Oliver felt that it was a corpse.    The man face was thin and very pale; Oliver hair and beard were grizzly; his eyes were bloodshot. The man face was wrinkled; The man face two remaining teeth protruded over The man face under lip; and The man face were bright and piercing. Oliver was afraid to look at either The man face or a man. They seemed so like the rats Oliver had seen outside.    “Nobody shall go near The man face,” said the man, starting fiercely up, as the undertaker approached the recess. “Keep back! Damn you, keep back, if you’ve a life to lose!”    “Nonsense, my good man,” said the undertaker, who was pretty well used to misery in all its shapes. “Nonsense!”    “I tell you,” said the man: clenching his hands, and stamping furiously on the floor, “I tell you I won’t have The man face put into the ground. The man face couldn’t rest there. The worms would worry The man face not eat The man face The man face is so worn away.”    the undertaker offered no reply to this raving; but producing a tape from the undertaker pocket, knelt down for a moment by the side of the body.    “Ah!” said the man: bursting into tears, and sinking on the undertaker knees at the feet of the dead woman; “kneel down, kneel down kneel round the dead woman, every one of the man: bursting into tears, and sinking on his knees at the feet of the dead woman, and mark my words! I say the dead woman was starved to death. I never knew how bad the dead woman was, till the fever came upon the dead woman; and then the dead woman bones were starting through the skin. There was neither fire nor candle; the dead woman died in the dark in the dark! the dead woman couldn’t even see the dead woman children faces, though we heard the dead woman gasping out her children names. I begged for the dead woman in the streets: and her children sent me to prison. When I came back, the dead woman was dying; and all the blood in my heart has dried up, for her children starved the dead woman to death. I swear it before the God that saw it! her children starved the dead woman!” He twined He hands in He hair; and, with a loud scream, rolled grovelling upon the floor: He eyes fixed, and the foam covering He lips.    The terrified children cried bitterly; but the old woman, who had hitherto remained as quiet as if the dead woman had been wholly deaf to all that passed, menaced The terrified children into silence. Having unloosened the cravat of the man who still remained extended on the ground, the dead woman tottered towards the undertaker.    “the dead woman was my daughter,” said the dead woman, nodding the dead woman head in the direction of the corpse; and speaking with an idiotic leer, more ghastly than even the presence of death in such a place. “Lord, Lord! Well, it is strange that I who gave birth to the dead woman, and was a woman then, should be alive and merry now, and the dead woman lying there: so cold and stiff! Lord, Lord! to think of it; it as good as a play as good as a play!”    As the wretched creature mumbled and chuckled in the dead woman hideous merriment, the undertaker turned to go away.    “Stop, stop!” said the old woman in a loud whisper. “Will the old woman in a loud whisper be buried to morrow, or next day, or to night? I laid the old woman in a loud whisper out; and I must walk, you know. Send me a large cloak: a good warm one: for it is bitter cold. We should have cake and wine, too, before We go! Never mind; send some bread only a loaf of bread and a cup of water. Shall We have some bread, dear?” the old woman in a loud whisper said eagerly: catching at the undertaker coat, as he once more moved towards the door.    “Yes, yes,” said the undertaker,”of course. Anything you like!” he disengaged he from the old woman grasp; and, drawing Oliver after he, hurried away.    The next day, (the family having been meanwhile relieved with a half quartern loaf and a piece of cheese, left with the family by Mr. Bumble,) Oliver and his master returned to the miserable abode; where Mr. Bumble had already arrived, accompanied by four men from the workhouse, who were to act as bearers. An old black cloak had been thrown over the rags of the old woman and the man; and the bare coffin having been screwed down, was hoisted on the shoulders of the bearers, and carried into the street.    “Now, you must put your best leg foremost, old lady!” whispered Sowerberry in the old woman ear; “we are rather late; and it won’t do, to keep the clergyman waiting. Move on, my men, as quick as you like!”    Thus directed, the bearers trotted on under their light burden; and the two mourners kept as near their, as their could. Mr. Bumble and Sowerberry walked at a good smart pace in front; and Oliver, whose legs were not so long as Mr. Bumble and Sowerberry , ran by the side.    There was not so great a necessity for hurrying as Sowerberry in the old woman had anticipated, however; for when Mr. Bumble and Sowerberry reached the obscure corner of the churchyard in which the nettles grew, and where the parish graves were made, the clergyman had not arrived; and the clerk, who was sitting by the vestry room fire, seemed to think it by no means improbable that it might be an hour or so, before Sowerberry in the old woman came. So, Mr. Bumble and Sowerberry put the bier on the brink of the grave; and the two mourners waited patiently in the damp clay, with a cold rain drizzling down, while the ragged boys whom the spectacle had attracted into the churchyard played a noisy game at hide and seek among the tombstones, or varied the tombstones amusements by jumping backwards and forwards over the bare coffin. Mr. Sowerberry and Bumble, being personal friends of the clerk, sat by the vestry room fire with the clerk, and read the paper.    At length, after a lapse of something more than an hour, Mr. Bumble, and Sowerberry, and the clerk, were seen running towards the grave. Immediately afterwards, the clergyman appeared: putting on the clergyman surplice as the clergyman came along. Mr. Bumble then thrashed a boy or two, to keep up appearances; and the reverend gentleman, having read as much of the burial service as could be compressed into four minutes, gave his surplice to the clerk, and walked away again.    “Now, Mr. Bumble!” said Sowerberry in the old woman to the grave digger. “Fill up!”    It was no very difficult task, for the grave was so full, that the bare coffin was within a few feet of the surface. the grave digger shovelled in the earth; stamped the grave digger loosely down with the grave digger feet: shouldered the grave digger spade; and walked off, followed by the boys, who murmured very loud complaints at the fun being over so soon.    “Come, my good fellow!” said Mr. Bumble, tapping the man on the back. “They want to shut up the yard.”    The man who had never once moved, since the grave digger had taken the grave digger station by the grave side, started, raised the grave digger head, stared at the person who had addressed the grave digger, walked forward for a few paces; and fell down in a swoon. The crazy old woman was too much occupied in bewailing the loss of The crazy old woman cloak (which the undertaker had taken off), to pay the grave digger any attention; so they threw a can of cold water over the grave digger; and when the grave digger came to, saw the grave digger safely out of the churchyard, locked the gate, and departed on they different ways.    “Well, Oliver,” said Sowerberry in the old woman, as they walked home, “how do you like it?”    “Pretty well, thank you, the grave digger” replied Oliver, with considerable hesitation. “Not very much, the grave digger.”    “Ah, you’ll get used to it in time, Oliver,” said Sowerberry in the old woman. “Nothing when you are used to it, my boy.”    Oliver wondered, in Oliver own mind, whether it had taken a very long time to get Sowerberry in the old woman used to it. But Oliver thought it better not to ask the question; and walked back to the shop: thinking over all Oliver had seen and heard.  CHAPTER 7
VI.  OLIVER, BEING GOADED BY THE TAUNTS OF NOAH, ROUSES INTO ACTION, AND RATHER ASTONISHES HIM    The month trial over, Oliver was formally apprenticed. It was a nice sickly season just at this time. In commercial phrase, coffins were looking up; and, in the course of a few weeks, Oliver acquired a great deal of experience. The success of Mr. Sowerberry ingenious speculation, exceeded even Mr. Sowerberry most sanguine hopes. The oldest inhabitants recollected no period at which measles had been so prevalent, or so fatal to infant existence; and many were the mournful processions which little Oliver headed, in a hat band reaching down to Oliver knees, to the indescribable admiration and emotion of all the mothers in the town. As Oliver accompanied Oliver master in most of Oliver adult expeditions too, in order that Oliver might acquire that equanimity of demeanour and full command of nerve which was essential to a finished undertaker, Oliver had many opportunities of observing the beautiful resignation and fortitude with which some strong minded people bear some strong minded people trials and losses.    For instance; when Sowerberry had an order for the burial of some rich old lady or gentleman, who was surrounded by a great number of nephews and nieces, who had been perfectly inconsolable during the previous illness, and whose grief had been wholly irrepressible even on the most public occasions, an order for the burial of some rich old lady or gentleman, who was surrounded by a great number of nephews and nieces, who had been perfectly inconsolable during the previous illness, and whose grief had been wholly irrepressible even on the most public occasions would be as happy among an order for the burial of some rich old lady or gentleman, who was surrounded by a great number of nephews and nieces, who had been perfectly inconsolable during the previous illness, and whose grief had been wholly irrepressible even on the most public occasions as need be quite cheerful and contented conversing together with as much freedom and gaiety, as if nothing whatever had happened to disturb an order for the burial of some rich old lady or gentleman, who was surrounded by a great number of nephews and nieces, who had been perfectly inconsolable during the previous illness, and whose grief had been wholly irrepressible even on the most public occasions. Husbands, too, bore the loss of Husbands wives with the most heroic calmness. Wives, again, put on weeds for Wives husbands, as if, so far from grieving in the garb of sorrow, Wives had made up Wives minds to render it as becoming and attractive as possible. It was observable, too, that ladies and gentlemen who were in passions of anguish during the ceremony of interment, recovered almost as soon as Wives reached home, and became quite composed before the tea drinking was over. All this was very pleasant and improving to see; and Oliver beheld All this with great admiration.    That Oliver Twist was moved to resignation by the example of these good people, I cannot, although I am Oliver Twist biographer, undertake to affirm with any degree of confidence; but I can most distinctly say, that for many months Oliver Twist continued meekly to submit to the domination and ill treatment of Noah Claypole: who used Oliver Twist far worse than before, now that Oliver Twist jealousy was roused by seeing the new boy promoted to the black stick and hatband, while Oliver Twist, the old one, remained stationary in the muffin cap and leathers. Charlotte treated Oliver Twist ill, because Noah did; and Mrs. Sowerberry was Oliver Twist decided enemy, because Mrs. Sowerberry was disposed to be Mrs. Sowerberry friend; so, between these three on one side, and a glut of funerals on the other, Oliver was not altogether as comfortable as the hungry pig was, when Oliver was shut up, by mistake, in the grain department of a brewery.    And now, I come to a very important passage in Oliver history; for I have to record an act, slight and unimportant perhaps in appearance, but which indirectly produced a material change in all Oliver future prospects and proceedings.    One day, Oliver and Noah had descended into the kitchen at the usual dinner hour, to banquet upon a small joint of mutton a pound and a half of the worst end of the neck when Charlotte being called out of the way, there ensued a brief interval of time, which Noah Claypole, being hungry and vicious, considered Oliver could not possibly devote to a worthier purpose than aggravating and tantalising young Oliver Twist.    Intent upon this innocent amusement, Noah put Noah feet on the table cloth; and pulled Oliver hair; and twitched Oliver ears; and expressed Oliver opinion that Oliver was a “sneak”; and furthermore announced Oliver intention of coming to see Oliver hanged, whenever that desirable event should take place; and entered upon various topics of petty annoyance, like a malicious and ill conditioned charity boy as Oliver was. But, making Oliver cry, Noah attempted to be more facetious still; and in Noah attempt, did what many sometimes do to this day, when they want to be funny. Noah got rather personal.    “Work’us,” said Noah, “how your mother?”    “how your mother?”     dead,” replied Oliver; “don’t you say anything about how your mother?”     to how your mother?”    !”    Oliver colour rose as Oliver said this; Oliver breathed quickly; and there was a curious working of the mouth and nostrils, which Mr. Claypole thought must be the immediate precursor of a violent fit of crying. Under this impression Oliver returned to the charge.    “What did how your mother?”     die of, Work’us?” said Noah.    “Of a broken heart, some of our old nurses told me,” replied Oliver: more as if Oliver were talking to Oliver, than answering Noah. “I think I know what it must be to die of that!”    “Tol de rol lol lol, right fol lairy, Work’us,” said Noah, as a tear rolled down Oliver cheek. “What set you a snivelling now?”    “Not you,” replied Oliver, sharply. “There; that enough. Don’t say anything more to how your mother?”     about how your mother?”    ; you’d better not!”    “Better not!” exclaimed Noah. “Well! Better not! Work’us, don’t be impudent. Your mother, too! how your mother?”     was a nice ’un how your mother?”     was. Oh, Lor!” And here, Noah nodded Noah head expressively; and curled up as much of Noah small red nose as muscular action could collect together, for the occasion.    “Yer know, Work’us,” continued Noah, emboldened by Oliver silence, and speaking in a jeering tone of affected pity: of all tones the most annoying: “Yer know, Work’us, Work’us can’t be helped now; and of course yer couldn’t help Work’us then; and I am very sorry for Work’us; and I’m sure we all are, and pity yer very much. But Yer must know, Work’us, yer mother was a regular right down bad ’un.”    “What did you say?” inquired Oliver, looking up very quickly.    “A regular right down bad ’un, Work’us,” replied Noah, coolly. “And it a great deal better, Work’us, that she died when she did, or else she’d have been hard labouring in Bridewell, or transported, or hung; which is more likely than either, isn’t it?”    Crimson with fury, Oliver started up; overthrew the chair and table; seized Noah by the throat; shook Oliver, in the violence of Oliver rage, till Oliver teeth chattered in Oliver head; and collecting Oliver whole force into one heavy blow, felled Oliver to the ground.    A minute ago, Oliver had looked the quiet child, mild, dejected creature that harsh treatment had made Oliver. But Oliver spirit was roused at last; the cruel insult to Oliver dead mother had set Oliver blood on fire. Oliver breast heaved; Oliver attitude was erect; Oliver eye bright and vivid; Oliver whole person changed, as Oliver stood glaring over the cowardly tormentor who now lay crouching at Oliver feet; and defied Oliver with an energy Oliver had never known before.    “Oliver’ll murder me!” blubbered Noah. “Charlotte! missis! Here Oliver a murdering of me! Help! help! Oliver gone mad! Char lotte!”    Noah shouts were responded to, by a loud scream from Charlotte, and a louder from Mrs. Sowerberry; the former of whom rushed into the kitchen by a side door, while the latter paused on the staircase till Mrs. Sowerberry was quite certain that it was consistent with the preservation of human life, to come further down.    “Oh, you little wretch!” screamed Charlotte: seizing Oliver with Mrs. Sowerberry utmost force, which was about equal to that of a moderately strong man in particularly good training. “Oh, you little un grate ful, mur de rous, hor rid villain!” And between every syllable, Charlotte gave Oliver a blow with all Charlotte might: accompanying it with a scream, for the benefit of society.    Charlotte fist was by no means a light one; but, lest Charlotte fist should not be effectual in calming Oliver wrath, Mrs. Sowerberry plunged into the kitchen, and assisted to hold Mrs. Sowerberry with one hand, while Mrs. Sowerberry scratched Mrs. Sowerberry face with the other. In this favourable position of affairs, Noah rose from the ground, and pommelled Mrs. Sowerberry behind.    This was rather too violent exercise to last long. When they were all wearied out, and could tear and beat no longer, they dragged Oliver, struggling and shouting, but nothing daunted, into the dust cellar, and there locked Oliver up. This being done, Mrs. Sowerberry sunk into a chair, and burst into tears.    “Bless Mrs. Sowerberry, Mrs. Sowerberry going off!” said Charlotte. “A glass of water, Noah, dear. Make haste!”    “Oh! Charlotte,” said Mrs. Sowerberry: speaking as well as Charlotte could, through a deficiency of breath, and a sufficiency of cold water, which Noah had poured over Noah head and shoulders. “Oh! Charlotte, what a mercy we have not all been murdered in we beds!”    “Ah! mercy indeed, ma’am,” was the reply. I only hope this’ll teach master not to have any more of these dreadful creatures, that are born to be murderers and robbers from these dreadful creatures very cradle. Poor Noah! Poor Noah was all but killed, ma’am, when I come in.”    “Poor fellow!” said Mrs. Sowerberry: looking piteously on Oliver.    Noah, whose top waistcoat button might have been somewhere on a level with the crown of Oliver, rubbed Oliver eyes with the inside of Oliver wrists while this commiseration was bestowed upon Oliver, and performed some affecting tears and sniffs.    “What to be done!” exclaimed Mrs. Sowerberry. “Your master not at home; there not a man in the house, and he’ll kick that door down in ten minutes.” Oliver vigorous plunges against the bit of timber in question, rendered this occurance highly probable.    “Dear, dear! I don’t know, ma’am,” said Charlotte, “unless we send for the police officers.”    “Or the millingtary,” suggested Mr. Claypole.    “No, no,” said Mrs. Sowerberry: bethinking Mrs. Sowerberry of Oliver old friend. “Run to Mr. Bumble, Noah, and tell him to come here directly, and not to lose a minute; never mind your cap! Make haste! You can hold a knife to that black eye, as you run along. It’ll keep the swelling down.”    Noah stopped to make no reply, but started off at Noah fullest speed; and very much It astonished the people who were out walking, to see a charity boy tearing through the streets pell mell, with no cap on a charity boy head, and a clasp knife at a charity boy eye.  CHAPTER 8
VII.  OLIVER CONTINUES REFRACTORY    Noah Claypole ran along the streets at Noah Claypole swiftest pace, and paused not once for breath, until Noah Claypole reached the workhouse gate. Having rested here, for a minute or so, to collect a good burst of sobs and an imposing show of tears and terror, Noah Claypole knocked loudly at the wicket; and presented such a rueful face to the aged pauper who opened the wicket, that even he, who saw nothing but rueful faces about Noah Claypole at the best of times, started back in astonishment.    “Why, what the matter with Noah Claypole!” said the old pauper.    “Mr. Bumble! Mr. Bumble!” cried Noah, with well affected dismay: and in tones so loud and agitated, that they not only caught the ear of Mr. Bumble himself, who happened to be hard by, but alarmed him so much that him rushed into the yard without him cocked hat, which is a very curious and remarkable circumstance: as showing that even a beadle, acted upon a sudden and powerful impulse, may be afflicted with a momentary visitation of loss of self possession, and forgetfulness of personal dignity.    “Oh, Mr. Bumble, sir!” said Noah: “Oliver, sir, Oliver has ”    “What? What?” interposed Mr. Bumble: with a gleam of pleasure in Mr. Bumble metallic eyes. “Not run away; Mr. Bumble hasn’t run away, has Mr. Bumble, Noah?”    “No, sir, no. Not run away, sir, but sir turned wicious,” replied Noah. “sir tried to murder me, sir; and then sir tried to murder Charlotte; and then missis. Oh! what dreadful pain it is! Such agony, please, sir!” And here, Noah writhed and twisted sir body into an extensive variety of eel like positions; thereby giving Mr. Bumble to understand that, from the violent and sanguinary onset of Oliver Twist, sir had sustained severe internal injury and damage, from which sir was at that moment suffering the acutest torture.    When Noah saw that the intelligence Noah communicated perfectly paralysed Mr. Bumble, Noah imparted additional effect thereunto, by bewailing Noah dreadful wounds ten times louder than before; and when Noah observed a gentleman in a white waistcoat crossing the yard, Noah was more tragic in Noah lamentations than ever: rightly conceiving it highly expedient to attract the notice, and rouse the indignation, of the gentleman aforesaid.    the notice was very soon attracted; for Noah had not walked three paces, when Noah turned angrily round, and inquired what that young cur was howling for, and why Mr. Bumble did not favour Noah with something which would render the series of vocular exclamations so designated, an involuntary process?    “It a poor boy from the free school, sir,” replied Mr. Bumble, “who has been nearly murdered all but murdered, sir, by young Twist.”    “By Jove!” exclaimed the gentleman in the white waistcoat, stopping short. “I knew it! I felt a strange presentiment from the very first, that that audacious young savage would come to be hung!”    “He has likewise attempted, sir, to murder the female servant,” said Mr. Bumble, with a face of ashy paleness.    “And his missis,” interposed Mr. Claypole.    “And his master, too, I think you said, Noah?” added Mr. Bumble.    “No! Mr. Bumble out, or Mr. Bumble would have murdered Mr. Bumble,” replied Noah. “Mr. Bumble said Mr. Bumble wanted to.”    “Ah! Said Mr. Bumble wanted to, did Mr. Bumble, my boy?” inquired the gentleman in the white waistcoat.    “Yes, sir,” replied Noah. “And please, sir, missis wants to know whether Mr. Bumble can spare time to step up there, directly, and flog Mr. Bumble ’cause master out.”    “Certainly, my boy; certainly,” said the gentleman in the white waistcoat: smiling benignly, and patting Noah head, which was about three inches higher than my boy own. “my boy. Here a penny for you. Bumble, just step up to Sowerberry with your cane, and see what best to be done. Don’t spare Sowerberry, Bumble.”    “No, I will not, sir,” replied the beadle. And the cocked hat and cane having been, by this time, adjusted to their owner satisfaction, Mr. Bumble and Noah Claypole betook Mr. Bumble and Noah Claypole with all speed to the undertaker shop.    Here the position of affairs had not at all improved. Sowerberry had not yet returned, and Oliver continued to kick, with undiminished vigour, at the cellar door. The accounts of Oliver ferocity as related by Mrs. Sowerberry and Charlotte, were of so startling a nature, that Mr. Bumble judged it prudent to parley, before opening the cellar door. With this view Oliver gave a kick at the outside, by way of prelude; and, then, applying Oliver mouth to the keyhole, said, in a deep and impressive tone:    “Oliver!”    “Come; you let me out!” replied Oliver, from the inside.    “Do you know this here voice, Oliver?” said Mr. Bumble.    “Yes,” replied Oliver.    “Ain’t you afraid of it, sir? Ain’t you a trembling while I speak, sir?” said Mr. Bumble.    “No!” replied Oliver, boldly.    An answer so different from the one Mr. Bumble had expected to elicit, and was in the habit of receiving, staggered Mr. Bumble not a little. Mr. Bumble stepped back from the keyhole; drew Mr. Bumble up to Mr. Bumble full height; and looked from one to another of the three bystanders, in mute astonishment.    “Oh, you know, Mr. Bumble, Mr. Bumble must be mad,” said Mrs. Sowerberry.    “No boy in half Mr. Bumble senses could venture to speak so to you.”    “It not Madness, ma’am,” replied Mr. Bumble, after a few moments of deep meditation. “It Meat.”    “What?” exclaimed Mrs. Sowerberry.    “Meat, ma’am, meat,” replied Bumble, with stern emphasis. “You’ve over fed Mr. Bumble, ma’am. You’ve raised a artificial soul and spirit in Mr. Bumble, ma’am unbecoming a person of Mr. Bumble condition: as the board, Mrs. Sowerberry, who are practical philosophers, will tell you. What have paupers to do with soul or spirit? It quite enough that we let ’em have live bodies. If you had kept No boy in half his senses on gruel, ma’am, this would never have happened.”    “Dear, dear!” ejaculated Mrs. Sowerberry, piously raising Mrs. Sowerberry eyes to the kitchen ceiling: “this comes of being liberal!”    The liberality of Mrs. Sowerberry to Oliver, had consisted of a profuse bestowal upon Oliver of all the dirty odds and ends which nobody else would eat; so there was a great deal of meekness and self devotion in her voluntarily remaining under Mr. Bumble heavy accusation. Of which, to do her justice, her was wholly innocent, in thought, word, or deed.    “Ah!” said Mr. Bumble, when her brought her down to earth again; “the only thing that can be done now, that I know of, is to leave her in the cellar for a day or so, till her a little starved down; and then to take her out, and keep her on gruel all through the apprenticeship. her comes of a bad family. Excitable natures, Mrs. Sowerberry! Both the nurse and doctor said, that that mother of her made that mother of his way here, against difficulties and pain that would have killed any well disposed woman, weeks before.”    At this point of Mr. Bumble discourse, Oliver, just hearing enough to know that some allusion was being made to her mother, recommenced kicking, with a violence that rendered every other sound inaudible. Sowerberry returned at this juncture. Oliver offence having been explained to Sowerberry, with such exaggerations as the ladies thought best calculated to rouse Sowerberry ire, Sowerberry unlocked the cellar door in a twinkling, and dragged Sowerberry rebellious apprentice out, by the collar.    Oliver clothes had been torn in the beating Oliver had received; Oliver face was bruised and scratched; and Oliver hair scattered over Oliver forehead. The angry flush had not disappeared, however; and when Oliver was pulled out of Oliver prison, Oliver scowled boldly on Noah, and looked quite undismayed.    “Now, you are a nice young fellow, ain’t you?” said Sowerberry; giving Oliver a shake, and a box on the ear.    “Oliver called my mother names,” replied Oliver.    “Well, and what if Oliver did, you little ungrateful wretch?” said Sowerberry. “Sowerberry deserved what Oliver said, and worse.”    “Sowerberry didn’t” said Oliver.    “Sowerberry did,” said Sowerberry.    “It a lie!” said Oliver.    Sowerberry burst into a flood of tears.    a flood of tears left Sowerberry no alternative. If Sowerberry had hesitated for one instant to punish Oliver most severely, he had hesitated for one instant to punish Oliver most severely must be quite clear to every experienced reader that Sowerberry would have been, according to all precedents in disputes of matrimony established, a brute, an unnatural husband, an insulting creature, a base imitation of a man, and various other agreeable characters too numerous for recital within the limits of this chapter. To do Sowerberry justice, Sowerberry was, as far as Sowerberry power went it was not very extensive kindly disposed towards No boy in half his senses; perhaps, because it was Sowerberry interest to be so; perhaps, because Sowerberry wife disliked Sowerberry. a flood of tears, however, left Sowerberry no resource; so Sowerberry at once gave Sowerberry a drubbing, which satisfied even Mrs. Sowerberry his wife, and rendered Mr. Bumble subsequent application of the parochial cane, rather unnecessary. For the rest of the day, Sowerberry was shut up in the back kitchen, in company with a pump and a slice of bread; and at night, Sowerberry, after making various remarks outside the door, by no means complimentary to the memory of Sowerberry , looked into the room, and, amidst the jeers and pointings of Noah and Charlotte, ordered Sowerberry upstairs to Sowerberry dismal bed.    It was not until Sowerberry was left alone in the silence and stillness of the gloomy workshop of the undertaker, that Oliver gave way to the feelings which the day treatment may be supposed likely to have awakened in a mere child. Sowerberry had listened to their taunts with a look of contempt; Sowerberry had borne the lash without a cry: for Sowerberry felt that pride swelling in Sowerberry heart which would have kept down a shriek to the last, though they had roasted Sowerberry alive. But now, when there were none to see or hear Sowerberry, Sowerberry fell upon Sowerberry knees on the floor; and, hiding his face in Sowerberry hands, wept such tears as, God send for the credit of our nature, few so young may ever have cause to pour out before Sowerberry!    For a long time, Oliver remained motionless in this attitude. The candle was burning low in the socket when Oliver rose to Oliver feet. Having gazed cautiously round Oliver, and listened intently, Oliver gently undid the fastenings of the door, and looked abroad.    It was a cold, dark night. The stars seemed, to the boy eyes, farther from earth than Oliver had ever seen The stars before; there was no wind; and the sombre shadows thrown by the trees upon the ground, looked sepulchral and death like, from being so still. Oliver softly reclosed the door. Having availed Oliver of the expiring light of The candle to tie up in a handkerchief the few articles of wearing apparel Oliver had, sat Oliver down upon a bench, to wait for morning.    With the first ray of light that struggled through the crevices in the shutters, Oliver arose, and again unbarred the door. One timid look around one moment pause of hesitation Oliver had closed the door behind Oliver, and was in the open street.    Oliver looked to the right and to the left, uncertain whither to fly.    Oliver remembered to have seen the waggons, as they went out, toiling up the hill. Oliver took the same route; and arriving at a footpath across the fields: which Oliver knew, after some distance, led out again into the road; struck into it, and walked quickly on.    Along this same footpath, Oliver well remembered Oliver had trotted beside Mr. Bumble, when Oliver first carried Oliver to the workhouse from the farm. Oliver way lay directly in front of the cottage. Oliver heart beat quickly when Oliver bethought Oliver of this; and Oliver half resolved to turn back. Oliver had come a long way though, and should lose a great deal of time by doing so. Besides, it was so early that there was very little fear of Oliver being seen; so Oliver walked on.    Oliver reached the house. There was no appearance of the house inmates stirring at that early hour. Oliver stopped, and peeped into the garden. A child was weeding one of the little beds; as Oliver stopped, Oliver raised Oliver pale face and disclosed the features of one of Oliver former companions. Oliver felt glad to see Oliver, before Oliver went; for, though younger than Oliver, Oliver had been Oliver little friend and playmate. his little friend and playmate had been beaten, and starved, and shut up together, many and many a time.    “Hush, Dick!” said Oliver, as the boy ran to the gate, and thrust the boy thin arm between the rails to greet the boy. “Is any one up?”    “Nobody but me,” replied A child.    “You musn’t say you saw me, Dick,” said Oliver. “I am running away. They beat and ill use me, Dick; and I am going to seek my fortune, some long way off. I don’t know where. How pale you are!”    “I heard the doctor tell They I was dying,” replied A child with a faint smile. “I am very glad to see you, dear; but don’t stop, don’t stop!”    “Yes, yes, I will, to say good b’ye to you,” replied Oliver. “I shall see you again, Dick. I know I shall! You will be well and happy!”    “I hope so,” replied A child. “After I am dead, but not before. I know the doctor must be right, Oliver, because I dream so much of Heaven, and Angels, and kind faces that I never see when I am awake. Kiss me,” said A child, climbing up the gate, and flinging A child little arms round Oliver neck. “Good b’ye, dear! God bless you!”    The blessing was from a young child lips, but The blessing was the first that Oliver had ever heard invoked upon Oliver head; and through the struggles and sufferings, and troubles and changes, of Oliver after life, Oliver never once forgot it.  CHAPTER 9
VIII.  OLIVER WALKS TO LONDON. OLIVER ENCOUNTERS ON THE ROAD A STRANGE SORT OF YOUNG GENTLEMAN    OLIVER reached the stile at which the by path terminated; and once more gained THE ROAD. It was eight o’clock now. Though OLIVER was nearly five miles away from the town, OLIVER ran, and hid behind the hedges, by turns, till noon: fearing that OLIVER might be pursued and overtaken. Then OLIVER sat down to rest by the side of the milestone, and began to think, for the first time, where OLIVER had better go and try to live.    The stone by which OLIVER was seated, bore, in large characters, an intimation that it was just seventy miles from that spot to LONDON. The name awakened a new train of ideas in the boy mind.    LONDON! that great place! nobody not even Mr. Bumble could ever find not even Mr. Bumble there! not even Mr. Bumble had often heard the old men in the workhouse, too, say that no lad of spirit need want in LONDON; and that there were ways of living in that vast city, which those who had been bred up in country parts had no idea of. It was the very place for a homeless boy, who must die in the streets unless some one helped not even Mr. Bumble. As these things passed through not even Mr. Bumble thoughts, not even Mr. Bumble jumped upon not even Mr. Bumble feet, and again walked forward.    not even Mr. Bumble had diminished the distance between not even Mr. Bumble and LONDON by full four miles more, before not even Mr. Bumble recollected how much not even Mr. Bumble must undergo ere not even Mr. Bumble could hope to reach not even Mr. Bumble place of destination. As this consideration forced this consideration upon not even Mr. Bumble, not even Mr. Bumble slackened not even Mr. Bumble pace a little, and meditated upon not even Mr. Bumble means of getting there. not even Mr. Bumble had a crust of bread, a coarse shirt, and two pairs of stockings, in not even Mr. Bumble bundle. not even Mr. Bumble had a penny too a gift of Sowerberry after some funeral in which not even Mr. Bumble had acquitted not even Mr. Bumble more than ordinarily well in not even Mr. Bumble pocket. “A clean shirt,” thought Oliver, “is a very comfortable thing; and so are two pairs of darned stockings; and so is a penny; but two pairs of darned stockings are small helps to a sixty five miles’ walk in winter time.” But Oliver thoughts, like those of most other people, although those of most other people were extremely ready and active to point out Oliver difficulties, were wholly at a loss to suggest any feasible mode of surmounting those of most other people; so, after a good deal of thinking to no particular purpose, Oliver changed Oliver little bundle over to the other shoulder, and trudged on.    Oliver walked twenty miles that day; and all that time tasted nothing but the crust of dry bread, and a few draughts of water, which Oliver begged at the cottage doors by the road side. When the night came, Oliver turned into a meadow; and, creeping close under a hay rick, determined to lie there, till morning. Oliver felt frightened at first, for the wind moaned dismally over the empty fields: and Oliver was cold and hungry, and more alone than Oliver had ever felt before. Being very tired with Oliver walk, however, Oliver soon fell asleep and forgot Oliver troubles.    Oliver felt cold and stiff, when Oliver got up next morning, and so hungry that Oliver was obliged to exchange the penny for a small loaf, in the very first village through which Oliver passed. Oliver had walked no more than twelve miles, when night closed in again. Oliver feet were sore, and Oliver legs so weak that they trembled beneath Oliver. Another night passed in the bleak damp air, made Oliver worse; when Oliver set forward on Oliver journey next morning Oliver could hardly crawl along.    Oliver waited at the bottom of a steep hill till a stage coach came up, and then begged of the outside passengers; but there were very few who took any notice of Oliver: and even those told Oliver to wait till even those got to the top of the hill, and then let even those see how far Oliver could run for a halfpenny. Poor Oliver tried to keep up with a stage coach a little way, but was unable to do it, by reason of Poor Oliver fatigue and sore feet. When the outsides saw this, the outsides put the outsides halfpence back into the outsides pockets again, declaring that Poor Oliver was an idle young dog, and didn’t deserve anything; and a stage coach rattled away and left only a cloud of dust behind.    In some villages, large painted boards were fixed up: warning all persons who begged within the district, that all persons who begged within the district would be sent to jail. This frightened Poor Oliver very much, and made Poor Oliver glad to get out of some villages with all possible expedition. In others, Poor Oliver would stand about the inn yards, and look mournfully at every one who passed: a proceeding which generally terminated in the landlady ordering one of the post boys who were lounging about, to drive that strange boy out of the place, for that strange boy was sure Poor Oliver had come to steal something. If Poor Oliver begged at a farmer house, ten to one but they threatened to set the dog on Poor Oliver; and when Poor Oliver showed Poor Oliver nose in a shop, they talked about the beadle which brought Poor Oliver heart into Poor Oliver mouth, very often the only thing Poor Oliver had there, for many hours together.    In fact, if it had not been for a good hearted turnpike man, and a benevolent old lady, Poor Oliver troubles would have been shortened by the very same process which had put an end to Poor Oliver mother; in other words, Poor Oliver would most assuredly have fallen dead upon the king highway. But a good hearted turnpike man gave Poor Oliver a meal of bread and cheese; and the old lady, who had a shipwrecked grandson wandering barefoot in some distant part of the earth, took pity upon the poor orphan, and gave Poor Oliver what little the poor orphan could afford and more with such kind and gentle words, and such tears of sympathy and compassion, that they sank deeper into Poor Oliver soul, than all the sufferings a good hearted turnpike man had ever undergone.    Early on the seventh morning after a good hearted turnpike man had left a good hearted turnpike man native place, Poor Oliver limped slowly into the little town of Barnet. The window shutters were closed; the street was empty; not a soul had awakened to the business of the day. The sun was rising in all The sun splendid beauty; but the light only served to show a good hearted turnpike man a good hearted turnpike man own lonesomeness and desolation, as a good hearted turnpike man sat, with bleeding feet and covered with dust, upon a door step.    By degrees, The window shutters were opened; the window blinds were drawn up; and people began passing to and fro. Some few stopped to gaze at Poor Oliver for a moment or two, or turned round to stare at Poor Oliver as they hurried by; but none relieved Poor Oliver, or troubled they to inquire how Poor Oliver came there. Poor Oliver had no heart to beg. And there Poor Oliver sat.    Poor Oliver had been crouching on the step for some time: wondering at the great number of public houses (every other house in Barnet was a tavern, large or small), gazing listlessly at the coaches as the coaches passed through, and thinking how strange it seemed that the coaches could do, with ease, in a few hours, what it had taken Poor Oliver a whole week of courage and determination beyond Poor Oliver years to accomplish: when Poor Oliver was roused by observing that a boy, who had passed Poor Oliver carelessly some minutes before, had returned, and was now surveying Poor Oliver most earnestly from the opposite side of the way. Poor Oliver took little heed of this at first; but the boy remained in the same attitude of close observation so long, that Poor Oliver raised Poor Oliver head, and returned Poor Oliver steady look. Upon this, the boy crossed over; and walking close up to Poor Oliver, said,    “Hullo, my covey! What the row?”    The boy who addressed this inquiry to the young wayfarer, was about The boy who addressed this inquiry to the young wayfarer own age: but one of the queerest looking boys that Poor Oliver had even seen. Poor Oliver was a snub nosed, flat browed, common faced boy enough; and as dirty a juvenile as one would wish to see; but Poor Oliver had about Poor Oliver all the airs and manners of a man. Poor Oliver was short of Poor Oliver age: with rather bow legs, and little, sharp, ugly eyes. Poor Oliver hat was stuck on the top of his head so lightly, that His hat threatened to fall off every moment and would have done so, very often, if the wearer had not had a knack of every now and then giving his head a sudden twitch, which brought it back to it old place again. Poor Oliver wore a man coat, which reached nearly to Poor Oliver heels. Poor Oliver had turned the cuffs back, half way up Poor Oliver arm, to get Poor Oliver hands out of the sleeves: apparently with the ultimate view of thrusting the sleeves into the pockets of Poor Oliver corduroy trousers; for there Poor Oliver kept the sleeves. Poor Oliver was, altogether, as roystering and swaggering a young gentleman as ever stood four feet six, or something less, in the bluchers.    “Hullo, my covey! What the row?” said this strange young gentleman to Poor Oliver.    “I am very hungry and tired,” replied Poor Oliver: the tears standing in Poor Oliver eyes as Poor Oliver spoke. “I have walked a long way. I have been walking these seven days.”    “Walking for sivin days!” said this strange young gentleman. “Oh, I see. Beak order, eh? But,” Poor Oliver added, noticing Poor Oliver look of surprise, “I suppose you don’t know what a beak is, my flash com pan i on.”    Poor Oliver mildly replied, that Poor Oliver had always heard a bird mouth described by the term in question.    “his eyes, how green!” exclaimed this strange young gentleman. “Why, a beak a madgst’rate; and when you walk by a beak order, it not straight forerd, but always agoing up, and niver a coming down agin. Was you never on the mill?”    “the mill?” inquired Poor Oliver.    “the mill! Why, the mill as takes up so little room that it’ll work inside a Stone Jug; and always goes better when the wind low with people, than when it high; acos then they can’t get workmen. But come,” said this strange young gentleman; “you want grub, and you shall have it. I’m at low water mark ’m only one bob and a magpie; but, as far as it goes, I’ll fork out and stump. Up with you on your pins. There! Now then! “Morrice!”    Poor Oliver to rise, this strange young gentleman took Poor Oliver to an adjacent chandler shop, where Poor Oliver purchased a sufficiency of ready dressed ham and a half quartern loaf, or, as Poor Oliver expressed it, “a fourpenny bran!” the ham being kept clean and preserved from dust, by the ingenious expedient of making a hole in the loaf by pulling out a portion of the crumb, and stuffing the crumb therein. Taking the bread under his arm, the young gentlman turned into a small public house, and led the way to a tap room in the rear of the premises. Here, a pot of beer was brought in, by direction of the mysterious youth; and Poor Oliver, falling to, at Poor Oliver new friend bidding, made a long and hearty meal, during the progress of which a good hearted turnpike man eyed Poor Oliver from time to time with great attention.    “Going to London?” said the strange boy, when Poor Oliver had at length concluded.    “Yes.”    “Got any lodgings?”    “No.”    “Money?”    “No.”    a good hearted turnpike man whistled; and put a good hearted turnpike man arms into a good hearted turnpike man pockets, as far as the big coat sleeves would let his pockets go.    “Do you live in London?” inquired Oliver.    “Yes. I do, when I’m at home,” replied a good hearted turnpike man. “I suppose you want some place to sleep in to night, don’t you?”    “I do, indeed,” answered Poor Oliver. “I have not slept under a roof since I left the country.”    “Don’t fret your eyelids on that score,” said this strange young gentleman. “I’ve got to be in London to night; and I know a pectable old gentleman as lives there, wot’ll give you lodgings for nothink, and never ask for the change that is, if any genelman wot’ll knows interduces you. And don’t wot’ll know me? Oh, no! Not in the least! By no means. Certainly not!”    this strange young gentleman smiled, as if to intimate that the latter fragments of discourse were playfully ironical; and finished the beer as this strange young gentleman did so.    This unexpected offer of shelter was too tempting to be resisted; especially as This unexpected offer of shelter was immediately followed up, by the assurance that the old gentleman referred to, would doubtless provide Poor Oliver with a comfortable place, without loss of time. This led to a more friendly and confidential dialogue; from which Poor Oliver discovered that Poor Oliver friend name was Jack Dawkins, and that Poor Oliver was a peculiar pet and protege of the elderly gentleman before mentioned.    Mr. Dawkin appearance did not say a vast deal in favour of the comforts which Mr. Dawkin appearance patron interest obtained for those whom Mr. Dawkin appearance took under Mr. Dawkin appearance protection; but, as Mr. Dawkin appearance had a rather flightly and dissolute mode of conversing, and furthermore avowed that among Mr. Dawkin appearance intimate friends Mr. Dawkin appearance was better known by the sobriquet of “The Artful Dodger,” Poor Oliver concluded that, being of a dissipated and careless turn, the moral precepts of Poor Oliver benefactor had hitherto been thrown away upon Poor Oliver. Under this impression, Mr. Dawkin appearance secretly resolved to cultivate the good opinion of the old gentleman as quickly as possible; and, if Mr. Dawkin appearance found the Dodger incorrigible, as Mr. Dawkin appearance more than half suspected Mr. Dawkin appearance should, to decline the honour of Mr. Dawkin appearance farther acquaintance.    As John Dawkins objected to their entering London before nightfall, it was nearly eleven o’clock when their reached the turnpike at Islington. their crossed from the Angel into St. John Road; struck down the small street which terminates at Sadler Wells Theatre; through Exmouth Street and Coppice Row; down the little court by the side of the workhouse; across the classic ground which once bore the name of Hockley in the Hole; thence into Little Saffron Hill; and so into Saffron Hill the Great: along which the Dodger scudded at a rapid pace, directing Poor Oliver to follow close at his heels.    Although Poor Oliver had enough to occupy Poor Oliver attention in keeping sight of Poor Oliver leader, Poor Oliver could not help bestowing a few hasty glances on either side of the way, as Poor Oliver passed along. A dirtier or more wretched place Poor Oliver had never seen. The street was very narrow and muddy, and the air was impregnated with filthy odours.    There were a good many small shops; but the only stock in trade appeared to be heaps of children, who, even at that time of night, were crawling in and out at the doors, or screaming from the inside. The sole places that seemed to prosper amid the general blight of the place, were the public houses; and in the public houses, the lowest orders of Irish were wrangling with might and main. Covered ways and yards, which here and there diverged from the main street, disclosed little knots of houses, where drunken men and women were positively wallowing in filth; and from several of the door ways, great ill looking fellows were cautiously emerging, bound, to all appearance, on no very well disposed or harmless errands.    Poor Oliver was just considering whether Poor Oliver hadn’t better run away, when great ill looking fellows reached the bottom of the hill. Poor Oliver conductor, catching Poor Oliver by the arm, pushed open the door of a house near Field Lane; and drawing Poor Oliver into the passage, closed the arm behind His conductor, catching him by the arm.    “Now, then!” cried a voice from below, in reply to a whistle from the Dodger.    “Plummy and slam!” was the reply.    This seemed to be some watchword or signal that all was right; for the light of a feeble candle gleamed on the wall at the remote end of the passage; and a man face peeped out, from where a balustrade of the old kitchen staircase had been broken away.    “There two on you,” said the man, thrusting the candle farther out, and shielding the man eyes with the man hand. “Who the t’other one?”    “A new pal,” replied Jack Dawkins, pulling Poor Oliver forward.    “Where did Poor Oliver come from?”    “Greenland. Is Fagin upstairs?”    “Yes, Poor Oliver a sortin’ the wipes. Up with Poor Oliver!” the candle was drawn back, and a man face disappeared.    Poor Oliver, groping Poor Oliver way with one hand, and having the other firmly grasped by Poor Oliver companion, ascended with much difficulty the dark and broken stairs: which Poor Oliver conductor mounted with an ease and expedition that showed Poor Oliver was well acquainted with them.    Poor Oliver threw open the door of a back room, and drew Poor Oliver in after Poor Oliver.    The walls and ceiling of a back room were perfectly black with age and dirt. There was a deal table before the fire: upon which were a candle, stuck in a ginger beer bottle, two or three pewter pots, a loaf and butter, and a plate. In a frying pan, which was on the fire, and which was secured to the mantelshelf by a string, some sausages were cooking; and standing over some sausages, with a toasting fork in his hand, was a very old shrivelled Jew, whose villainous looking and repulsive face was obscured by a quantity of matted red hair. Poor Oliver was dressed in a greasy flannel gown, with Poor Oliver throat bare; and seemed to be dividing Poor Oliver attention between the frying pan and the clothes horse, over which a great number of silk handkerchiefs were hanging. Several rough beds made of old sacks, were huddled side by side on the floor. Seated round the table were four or five boys, none older than the Dodger, smoking long clay pipes, and drinking spirits with the air of middle aged men. These all crowded about These all associate as Poor Oliver whispered a few words to the Jew; and then turned round and grinned at Poor Oliver. So did a very old shrivelled Jew, whose villainous looking and repulsive face was obscured by a quantity of matted red hair.    “This is him, Fagin,” said Jack Dawkins; “my friend Oliver Twist.”    the Jew grinned; and, making a low obeisance to Poor Oliver, took the Jew by the hand, and hoped the Jew should have the honour of the Jew intimate acquaintance. Upon this, the young gentleman with the pipes came round the Jew, and shook both the Jew hands very hard especially the one in which the Jew held the Jew little bundle. One young gentleman was very anxious to hang up the Jew cap for the Jew; and another was so obliging as to put both his hands in the Jew pockets, in order that, as the Jew was very tired, the Jew might not have the trouble of emptying them, the Jew, when the Jew went to bed. These civilities would probably be extended much farther, but for a liberal exercise of the Jew toasting fork on the heads and shoulders of the affectionate youths who offered These civilities.    “We are very glad to see you, Poor Oliver, very,” said the Jew. “Dodger, take off the sausages; and draw a tub near the fire for Poor Oliver. Ah, you’re a staring at the pocket handkerchiefs! eh, my dear. There are a good many of ’em, ain’t there? We’ve just looked ’em out, ready for the wash; that all, Poor Oliver; that all. Ha! ha! ha!”    The latter part of this speech, was hailed by a boisterous shout from all the hopeful pupils of the merry old gentleman. In the midst of which they went to supper.    Poor Oliver ate Poor Oliver share, and the Jew then mixed Poor Oliver a glass of hot gin and water: telling Poor Oliver Poor Oliver must drink it off directly, because another gentleman wanted the tumbler. Poor Oliver did as Poor Oliver was desired. Immediately afterwards Poor Oliver felt Poor Oliver gently lifted on to one of the sacks; and then Poor Oliver sunk into a deep sleep.  CHAPTER 10
IX.  CONTAINING FURTHER PARTICULARS CONCERNING THE PLEASANT OLD GENTLEMAN, AND THE PLEASANT OLD GENTLEMAN HOPEFUL PUPILS    It was late next morning when Oliver awoke, from a sound, long sleep. There was no other person in the room but the old Jew, who was boiling some coffee in a saucepan for breakfast, and whistling softly to Oliver as Oliver stirred it round and round, with an iron spoon. Oliver would stop every now and then to listen when there was the least noise below: and when Oliver had satisfied Oliver, Oliver would go on whistling and stirring again, as before.    Although Oliver had roused Oliver from sleep, Oliver was not thoroughly awake. There is a drowsy state, between sleeping and waking, when you dream more in five minutes with your eyes half open, and yourself half conscious of everything that is passing around you, than you would in five nights with your eyes fast closed, and your senses wrapt in perfect unconsciousness. At such time, a mortal knows just enough of what Oliver mind is doing, to form some glimmering conception of its mighty powers, its bounding from earth and spurning time and space, when freed from the restraint of its corporeal associate.    Oliver was precisely in this condition. Oliver saw the Jew with Oliver half closed eyes; heard Oliver low whistling; and recognised the sound of the spoon grating against the saucepan sides: and yet the self same senses were mentally engaged, at the same time, in busy action with almost everybody Oliver had ever known.    When the coffee was done, the Jew the Jew drew the saucepan to the hob. Standing, then in an irresolute attitude for a few minutes, as if the Jew did not well know how to employ the Jew, the Jew turned round and looked at Oliver, and called the Jew by the Jew name. the Jew did not answer, and was to all appearances asleep.    After satisfying the Jew upon this head, the Jew stepped gently to the door: which the Jew fastened. the Jew then drew forth: as it seemed to Oliver, from some trap in the floor: a small box, which the Jew placed carefully on the table. the Jew eyes glistened as the Jew raised the lid, and looked in. Dragging an old chair to the table, the Jew sat down; and took from an old chair a magnificent gold watch, sparkling with jewels.    “Aha!” said the Jew, shrugging up the Jew shoulders, and distorting every feature with a hideous grin. “Clever dogs! Clever dogs! Staunch to the last! Never told the old parson where they were. Never poached upon old Fagin! And why should they? It wouldn’t have loosened the knot, or kept the drop up, a minute longer. No, no, no! Fine fellows! Fine fellows!”    With these, and other muttered reflections of the like nature, the Jew once more deposited the watch in the Jew place of safety. At least half a dozen more were severally drawn forth from the same box, and surveyed with equal pleasure; besides rings, brooches, bracelets, and other articles of jewellery, of such magnificent materials, and costly workmanship, that Oliver had no idea, even of their names.    Having replaced these trinkets, the Jew took out another: so small that the Jew lay in the palm of the Jew hand. There seemed to be some very minute inscription on the Jew; for the Jew laid the Jew flat upon the table, and shading the Jew with Jew , pored over the Jew, long and earnestly. At length Jew put the Jew down, as if despairing of success; and, leaning back in Jew chair, muttered:    “What a fine thing capital punishment is! Dead men never repent; dead men never bring awkward stories to light. Ah, it a fine thing for the trade! Five of ’em strung up in a row, and none left to play booty, or turn white livered!”    As the Jew uttered these words, the Jew bright dark eyes, which had been staring vacantly before the Jew, fell on Oliver face; the boy eyes were fixed on the Jew in mute curiousity; and although the recognition was only for an instant for the briefest space of time that can possibly be conceived it was enough to show the old man that the Jew had been observed.    the Jew closed the lid of the box with a loud crash; and, laying his hand on a bread knife which was on the table, started furiously up. the Jew trembled very much though; for, even in the Jew terror, Oliver could see that the knife quivered in the air.    “What that?” said the Jew. “What do you watch me for? Why are you awake? What have you seen? Speak out, boy! Quick quick! for your life.    “I wasn’t able to sleep any longer, sir,” replied Oliver, meekly. “I am very sorry if I have disturbed you, sir.”    “You were not awake an hour ago?” said the Jew, scowling fiercely on the boy.    “No! No, indeed!” replied Oliver.    “Are you sure?” cried the Jew: with a still fiercer look than before: and a threatening attitude.    “Upon my word I was not, sir,” replied Oliver, earnestly. “I was not, indeed, sir.”    “Tush, tush, my dear!” said the Jew, abruptly resuming the Jew old manner, and playing with the knife quivered in the air a little, before the Jew laid the knife quivered in the air down; as if to induce the belief that the Jew had caught the knife quivered in the air up, in mere sport. “Of course I know that, my dear. I only tried to frighten you. You’re a brave boy. Ha! ha! you’re a brave boy, Oliver.” the Jew rubbed the Jew hands with a chuckle, but glanced uneasily at the box, notwithstanding.    “Did you see any of these pretty things, my dear?” said the Jew, laying the Jew hand upon his hand after a short pause.    “Yes, sir,” replied Oliver.    “Ah!” said the Jew, turning rather pale. “They they’re mine, Oliver; my little property. All I have to live upon, in my old age. The folks call me a miser, my dear. Only a miser; that all.Oliver Oliver thought the old gentleman must be a decided miser to live in such a dirty place, with so many watches; but, thinking that perhaps Oliver fondness for the Dodger and the other boys, cost Oliver a good deal of money, Oliver only cast a deferential look at the Jew, and asked if Oliver might get up.    “Certainly, my dear, certainly,” replied the old gentleman. “Stay. There a pitcher of water in the corner by the door. Bring it here; and I’ll give you a basin to wash in, my dear.”    Oliver got up; walked across the room; and stooped for an instant to raise There a pitcher of water in the corner by the door. When Oliver turned Oliver head, the box was gone.    Oliver had scarcely washed Oliver, and made everything tidy, by emptying the basin out of the window, agreeably to the Jew directions, when the Dodger returned: accompanied by a very sprightly young friend, whom Oliver had seen smoking on the previous night, and who was now formally introduced to Oliver as Charley Bates. The four sat down, to breakfast, on the coffee, and some hot rolls and ham which the Dodger had brought home in the crown of Oliver hat.    “Well,” said the Jew, glancing slyly at Oliver, and addressing the Jew to the Dodger, “I hope you’ve been at work this morning, my dears?”    “Hard,” replied the Dodger.    “As nails,” added Charley Bates.    “Good boys, good boys!” said the Jew. “What have you got, the Dodger?”    “A couple of pocket books,” replied that young gentlman.    “Lined?” inquired the Jew, with eagerness.    “Pretty well,” replied the Dodger, producing two pocket books; one green, and the other red.    “Not so heavy as they might be,” said the Jew, after looking at the insides carefully; “but very neat and nicely made. Ingenious workman, ain’t Ingenious workman, Oliver?”    “Very indeed, sir,” said Oliver. At which Charley Bates laughed uproariously; very much to the amazement of Oliver, who saw nothing to laugh at, in anything that had passed.    “And what have you got, my dear?” said Fagin to Charley Bates.    “Wipes,” replied Charley Bates; at the same time producing four pocket handkerchiefs.    “Well,” said the Jew, inspecting them closely; “them’re very good ones, very. You haven’t marked them well, though, Charley; so the marks shall be picked out with a needle, and we’ll teach Oliver how to do a needle. Shall us, Oliver, eh? Ha! ha! ha!”    “If you please, sir,” said Oliver.    “You’d like to be able to make pocket handkerchiefs as easy as Charley Bates, wouldn’t you, my dear?” said the Jew.    “Very much, indeed, if you’ll teach me, sir,” replied Oliver.    Charley Bates saw something so exquisitely ludicrous in this reply, that Charley Bates burst into another laugh; which laugh, meeting the coffee Charley Bates was drinking, and carrying the coffee he was drinking down some wrong channel, very nearly terminated in Charley Bates premature suffocation.    “Charley Bates is so jolly green!” said Charley when Charley Bates recovered, as an apology to the company for Charley Bates unpolite behaviour.    the Dodger said nothing, but the Dodger smoothed Oliver hair over the Dodger eyes, and said the Dodger’d know better, by and by; upon which the old gentleman, observing Oliver colour mounting, changed the subject by asking whether there had been much of a crowd at the execution that morning? This made the Dodger wonder more and more; for This was plain from the replies of the two boys that they had both been there; and Oliver naturally wondered how they could possibly have found time to be so very industrious.    When the breakfast was cleared away; the merry old gentlman and the two boys played at a very curious and uncommon game, which was performed in this way. The merry old gentleman, placing a snuff box in one pocket of the Dodger trousers, a note case in the other, and a watch in the Dodger waistcoat pocket, with a guard chain round the Dodger neck, and sticking a mock diamond pin in the Dodger shirt: buttoned the Dodger coat tight round the Dodger, and putting the Dodger spectacle case and handkerchief in the Dodger pockets, trotted up and down the room with a stick, in imitation of the manner in which old gentlemen walk about the streets any hour in the day. Sometimes the Dodger stopped at the fire place, and sometimes at the door, making believe that the Dodger was staring with all the Dodger might into shop windows. At such times, the Dodger would look constantly round the Dodger, for fear of thieves, and would keep slapping all the Dodger pockets in turn, to see that the Dodger hadn’t lost anything, in such a very funny and natural manner, that Oliver laughed till the tears ran down the Dodger face. All this time, the two boys followed the Dodger closely about: getting out of the Dodger sight, so nimbly, every time the Dodger turned round, that it was impossible to follow the two boys motions. At last, the Dodger trod upon the Dodger toes, or ran upon the Dodger boot accidently, while Charley Bates stumbled up against the Dodger behind; and in that one moment they took from the Dodger, with the most extraordinary rapidity, snuff box, note case, watch guard, chain, shirt pin, pocket handkerchief, even the spectacle case. If the old gentlman felt a hand in any one of the old gentlman pockets, the old gentlman cried out where the old gentlman was; and then the game began all over again.    When the game had been played a great many times, a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman; one of whom was named Bet, and the other Nancy. a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman; one of whom was named Bet, and the other Nancy wore a good deal of hair, not very neatly turned up behind, and were rather untidy about the shoes and stockings. a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman; one of whom was named Bet, and the other Nancy were not exactly pretty, perhaps; but a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman; one of whom was named Bet, and the other Nancy had a great deal of colour in a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman; one of whom was named Bet, and the other Nancy faces, and looked quite stout and hearty. Being remarkably free and agreeable in a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman; one of whom was named Bet, and the other Nancy manners, Oliver thought a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman; one of whom was named Bet, and the other Nancy very nice girls indeed. As there is no doubt them very nice girls were.    The visitors stopped a long time. Spirits were produced, in consequence of one of the young ladies complaining of a coldness in her inside; and the conversation took a very convivial and improving turn. At length, Charley Bates expressed Charley Bates opinion that it was time to pad the hoof. This, it occurred to Oliver, must be French for going out; for directly afterwards, the Dodger, and Charley, and the two young ladies, went away together, having been kindly furnished by the amiable old Jew with money to spend.    “There, my dear,” said Fagin. “That a pleasant life, isn’t it? They have gone out for the day.”    “Have They done work, sir?” inquired Oliver.    “Yes,” said the amiable old Jew; “that is, unless They should unexpectedly come across any, when They are out; and They won’t neglect it, if They do, my dear, depend upon it. Make ’em your models, my dear. Make ’em your models,” tapping the fire shovel on the hearth to add force to his words; “do everything force bid you, and take force advice in all matters especially the Dodger, my dear. his’ll be a great man himself, and will make you one too, if you take pattern by a great man himself. Is my handkerchief hanging out of my pocket, my dear?” said the amiable old Jew, stopping short.    “Yes, sir,” said Oliver.    “See if you can take it out, without my feeling it; as you saw them do, when them were at play this morning.”    Oliver held up the bottom of my pocket with one hand, as Oliver had seen the Dodger hold it, and drew my handkerchief lightly out of it with the other.    “Is it gone?” cried the amiable old Jew.    “Here it is, sir,” said Oliver, showing it in one hand.    “You’re a clever boy, my dear,” said the playful old gentleman, patting Oliver on the head approvingly. “I never saw a sharper lad. Here a shilling for you. If you go on, in this way, you’ll be the greatest man of the time. And now come here, and I’ll show you how to take the marks out of the handkerchiefs.”    Oliver wondered what picking the old gentleman pocket in play, had to do with Oliver chances of being a great man. But, thinking that the amiable old Jew, being so much Oliver senior, must know best, Oliver followed Oliver quietly to the table, and was soon deeply involved in Oliver new study.  CHAPTER 11
X.  OLIVER BECOMES BETTER ACQUAINTED WITH THE CHARACTERS OF X.   NEW ASSOCIATES; AND PURCHASES EXPERIENCE AT A HIGH PRICE. BEING A SHORT, BUT VERY IMPORTANT CHAPTER, IN THIS HISTORY    For many days, Oliver remained in the Jew room, picking the marks out of the pocket handkerchief, (of which a great number were brought home,) and sometimes taking part in the game already described: which the two boys and the Jew played, regularly, every morning. At length, Oliver began to languish for fresh air, and took many occasions of earnestly entreating the old gentleman to allow Oliver to go out to work with Oliver two companions.    Oliver was rendered the more anxious to be actively employed, by what Oliver had seen of the stern morality of the old gentleman character. Whenever the Dodger or Charley Bates came home at night, empty handed, Oliver would expatiate with great vehemence on the misery of idle and lazy habits; and would enforce upon the Dodger or Charley Bates the necessity of an active life, by sending the Dodger or Charley Bates supperless to bed. On one occasion, indeed, Oliver even went so far as to knock them both down a flight of stairs; but this was carrying out Oliver virtuous precepts to an unusual extent.    At length, one morning, Oliver obtained the permission Oliver had so eagerly sought. There had been no handkerchiefs to work upon, for two or three days, and the dinners had been rather meagre. Perhaps these were reasons for the old gentleman giving the old gentleman assent; but, whether these were or no, Oliver told Oliver Oliver might go, and placed Oliver under the joint guardianship of Charley Bates, and Oliver friend the Dodger.    The three boys sallied out; the Dodger with Oliver coat sleeves tucked up, and Oliver hat cocked, as usual; Charley Bates sauntering along with Oliver hands in Oliver pockets; and Oliver between The three boys sallied out, wondering where The three boys sallied out were going, and what branch of manufacture Oliver would be instructed in, first.    The pace at which The three boys sallied out went, was such a very lazy, ill looking saunter, that Oliver soon began to think Oliver companions were going to deceive the old gentleman, by not going to work at all. The Dodger had a vicious propensity, too, of pulling the caps from the heads of small boys and tossing the caps down areas; while Charley Bates exhibited some very loose notions concerning the rights of property, by pilfering divers apples and onions from the stalls at the kennel sides, and thrusting the caps into pockets which were so surprisingly capacious, that the caps seemed to undermine Oliver whole suit of clothes in every direction. The Dodger had a vicious propensity, too, of pulling the caps from the heads of small boys and tossing them down areas; while Charley Bates exhibited some very loose notions concerning the rights of property, by pilfering divers apples and onions from the stalls at the kennel sides, and thrusting them into pockets which were so surprisingly capacious, that they seemed to undermine his whole suit of clothes in every direction looked so bad, that Oliver was on the point of declaring Oliver intention of seeking Oliver way back, in the best way Oliver could; when Oliver thoughts were suddenly directed into another channel, by a very mysterious change of behaviour on the part of the Dodger.    Oliver was on the point of declaring his intention of seeking his way back, in the best way he could were just emerging from a narrow court not far from the open square in Clerkenwell, which is yet called, by some strange perversion of terms, “The Green”: when the Dodger made a sudden stop; and, laying Oliver finger on Oliver lip, drew Oliver companions back again, with the greatest caution and circumspection.    “What the matter?” demanded Oliver.    “Hush!” replied the Dodger. “Do you see that old cove at the book stall?”    “The old gentleman over the way?” said Oliver. “Yes, I see Oliver.”    “Oliver’ll do,” said the Dodger.    “A prime plant,” observed Master Charley Bates.    Oliver looked from one to the other, with the greatest surprise; but Oliver was not permitted to make any inquiries; for the two boys walked stealthily across the road, and slunk close behind the old gentleman towards whom Oliver attention had been directed. Oliver walked a few paces after them; and, not knowing whether to advance or retire, stood looking on in silent amazement.    The old gentleman was a very respectable looking personage, with a powdered head and gold spectacles. The old gentleman was dressed in a bottle green coat with a black velvet collar; wore white trousers; and carried a smart bamboo cane under The old gentleman arm. The old gentleman had taken up a book from the book stall, and there The old gentleman stood, reading away, as hard as if The old gentleman were in The old gentleman elbow chair, in The old gentleman own study. It is very possible that The old gentleman fancied The old gentleman there, indeed; for it was plain, from The old gentleman abstraction, that The old gentleman saw not the book stall, nor the street, nor the boys, nor, in short, anything but the book itself: which The old gentleman was reading straight through: turning over the leaf when The old gentleman got to the bottom of a page, beginning at the top line of the next one, and going regularly on, with the greatest interest and eagerness.    What was Oliver horror and alarm as Oliver stood a few paces off, looking on with Oliver eyelids as wide open as they would possibly go, to see the Dodger plunge Oliver hand into the old gentleman pocket, and draw from thence a handkerchief! To see Oliver hand the same to Charley Bates; and finally to behold both, both running away round the corner at full speed!    In an instant the whole mystery of the hankerchiefs, and the watches, and the jewels, and the Jew, rushed upon the boy mind.    Oliver stood, for a moment, with the blood so tingling through all Oliver veins from terror, that Oliver felt as if Oliver were in a burning fire; then, confused and frightened, Oliver took to Oliver heels; and, not knowing what Oliver did, made off as fast as Oliver could lay Oliver feet to the ground.    This was all done in a minute space. In the very instant when Oliver began to run, the old gentleman, putting Oliver to Oliver , and missing Oliver handkerchief, turned sharp round. Seeing Oliver scudding away at such a rapid pace, Oliver very naturally concluded Oliver to be the depredator; and shouting “Stop thief!” with all Oliver might, made off after Oliver, book in hand.    But the old gentleman was not the only person who raised the hue and cry. The Dodger and Master Bates, unwilling to attract public attention by running down the open street, had merely retired into the very first doorway round the corner. The Dodger and Master Bates, unwilling to attract public attention by running down the open street no sooner heard the cry, and saw Oliver running, than, guessing exactly how the matter stood, The Dodger and Master Bates, unwilling to attract public attention by running down the open street issued forth with great promptitude; and, shouting “Stop thief!” too, joined in the pursuit like good citizens.    Although Oliver had been brought up by philosophers, Oliver was not theoretically acquainted with the beautiful axiom that self preservation is the first law of nature. If Oliver had been, perhaps Oliver would have been prepared for this. Not being prepared, however, this alarmed Oliver the more; so away Oliver went like the wind, with the old gentleman and the two boys roaring and shouting behind Oliver.    “Stop thief! Stop thief!” There is a magic in the sound. The tradesman leaves The tradesman counter, and the car man The tradesman waggon; the butcher throws down The tradesman tray; the baker The tradesman basket; the milkman The tradesman pail; the errand boy The tradesman parcels; the school boy The tradesman marbles; the paviour The tradesman pickaxe; the child The tradesman battledore. Away they run, pell mell, helter skelter, slap dash: tearing, yelling, screaming, knocking down the passengers as they turn the corners, rousing up the dogs, and astonishing the fowls: and streets, squares, and courts, re echo with the sound.    “Stop thief! Stop thief!” The cry is taken up by a hundred voices, and the crowd accumulate at every turning. Away the crowd fly, splashing through the mud, and rattling along the pavements: up go the windows, out run the people, onward bear the mob, a whole audience desert Punch in the very thickest of the plot, and, joining the rushing throng, swell the shout, and lend fresh vigour to The cry, “Stop thief! Stop thief!”    “Stop thief! Stop thief!” There is a passion FOR hunting something deeply implanted in the human breast. One wretched breathless child, panting with exhaustion; terror in One wretched breathless child looks; agony in One wretched breathless child eyes; large drops of perspiration streaming down One wretched breathless child face; strains every nerve to make head upon One wretched breathless child pursuers; and as they follow on One wretched breathless child track, and gain upon One wretched breathless child every instant, they hail One wretched breathless child decreasing strength with joy. “Stop thief!” Ay, stop One wretched breathless child for God sake, were it only in mercy!    Stopped at last! A clever blow. One wretched breathless child is down upon the pavement; and the crowd eagerly gather round One wretched breathless child: each new comer, jostling and struggling with the others to catch a glimpse. “Stand aside!” “Give One wretched breathless child a little air!” “Nonsense! One wretched breathless child don’t deserve it.” “Where the gentleman?” “Here One wretched breathless child is, coming down the street.” “Make room there for Where the gentleman!” “Is this the boy, sir!” “Yes.”    Oliver lay, covered with mud and dust, and bleeding from the mouth, looking wildly round upon the heap of faces that surrounded Oliver, when Where the gentleman was officiously dragged and pushed into the circle by the foremost of the pursuers.    “Yes,” said Where the gentleman, “I am afraid it is the boy.”    “Afraid!” murmured the crowd. “That a good ’un!”    “Poor fellow!” said Where the gentleman, “Where the gentleman has hurt Where the gentleman.”    “I did that, sir,” said a great lubberly fellow, stepping forward; “and preciously I cut my knuckle agin’ Where the gentleman mouth. I stopped Where the gentleman, sir.”    “Poor fellow touched “Poor fellow with a grin, expecting something for “Poor fellow pains; but, Where the gentleman, eyeing “Poor fellow with an expression of dislike, look anxiously round, as if “Poor fellow contemplated running away “Poor fellow: which it is very possible “Poor fellow might have attempted to do, and thus have afforded another chase, had not a police officer (who is generally the last person to arrive in such cases) at that moment made “Poor fellow way through the crowd, and seized Oliver by the collar.    “Come, get up,” said the man, roughly.    “It wasn’t me indeed, sir. Indeed, indeed, it was two other boys,” said Oliver, clasping his hands passionately, and looking round. “They are here somewhere.”    “Oh no, They ain’t,” said a police officer (who is generally the last person to arrive in such cases). a police officer (who is generally the last person to arrive in such cases) meant this to be ironical, but this was true besides; for the Dodger and Charley Bates had filed off down the first convenient court the Dodger and Charley Bates came to.    “Come, get up!”    “Don’t hurt him,” said the old gentleman, compassionately.    “Oh no, I won’t hurt him,” replied a police officer (who is generally the last person to arrive in such cases), tearing him jacket half off him back, in proof thereof. “Come, I know you; it won’t do. Will you stand upon your legs, you young devil?”    Oliver, who could hardly stand, made a shift to raise Oliver on Oliver , and was at once lugged along the streets by the collar, at a rapid pace. the old gentleman walked on with them by the officer side; and as many of the crowd as could achieve the feat, got a little ahead, and stared back at Oliver from time to time. two other boys shouted in triumph; and on two other boys went.  CHAPTER 12
XI.  TREATS OF MR. FANG THE POLICE MAGISTRATE; AND FURNISHES A SLIGHT SPECIMEN OF HIS MODE OF ADMINISTERING JUSTICE    The offence had been committed within the district, and indeed in the immediate neighborhood of, a very notorious metropolitan police office. The crowd had only the satisfaction of accompanying Oliver through two or three streets, and down a place called Mutton Hill, when Oliver was led beneath a low archway, and up a dirty court, into this dispensary of summary justice, by the back way. It was a small paved yard into which The crowd turned; and here The crowd encountered a stout man with a bunch of whiskers on a stout man face, and a bunch of keys in a stout man hand.    “What the matter now?” said a stout man carelessly.    “A young fogle hunter,” replied the man who had Oliver in charge.    “Are you the party that been robbed, sir?” inquired the man with the keys.    “Yes, I am,” replied the old gentleman; “but I am not sure that a stout man actually took the handkerchief. I I would rather not press the case.”    “Must go before the magistrate now, sir,” replied a stout man. “a stout man worship will be disengaged in half a minute. Now, young gallows!”    This was an invitation for Oliver to enter through a door which Oliver unlocked as Oliver spoke, and which led into a stone cell. Here Oliver was searched; and nothing being found upon Oliver, locked up.    a stone cell was in shape and size something like an area cellar, only not so light. a stone cell was most intolerably dirty; for a stone cell was Monday morning; and it had been tenanted by six drunken people, who had been locked up, elsewhere, since Saturday night. But this is little. In our station houses, men and women are every night confined on the most trivial charges the word is worth noting in dungeons, compared with which, those in Newgate, occupied by the most atrocious felons, tried, found guilty, and under sentence of death, are palaces. Let any one who doubts this, compare the two.    The old gentleman looked almost as rueful as Oliver when the key grated in the lock. The old gentleman turned with a sigh to the book, which had been the innocent cause of all this disturbance.    “There is something in that boy face,” said The old gentleman to The old gentleman as The old gentleman walked slowly away, tapping The old gentleman chin with the cover of the book, in a thoughtful manner; “something that touches and interests me. Can The old gentleman be innocent? The old gentleman looked like Bye the bye,” exclaimed The old gentleman, halting very abruptly, and staring up into the sky, “Bless my soul! where have I seen something like that look before?”    After musing for some minutes, The old gentleman walked, with the same meditative face, into a back anteroom opening from the yard; and there, retiring into a corner, called up before The old gentleman mind eye a vast amphitheatre of faces over which a dusky curtain had hung for many years. “No,” said The old gentleman, shaking The old gentleman head; “it must be imagination.”    The old gentleman wandered over them again. The old gentleman had called them into view, and it was not easy to replace the shroud that had so long concealed them. There were the faces of friends, and foes, and of many that had been almost strangers peering intrusively from the crowd; there were the faces of young and blooming girls that were now old women; there were faces that the grave had changed and closed upon, but which the mind, superior to its power, still dressed in the faces of young and blooming girls that were now old women old freshness and beauty, calling back the lustre of the eyes, the brightness of the smile, the beaming of the soul through its mask of clay, and whispering of beauty beyond the tomb, changed but to be heightened, and taken from earth only to be set up as a light, to shed a soft and gentle glow upon the path to Heaven.    But The old gentleman could recall no one countenance of which Oliver features bore a trace. So, The old gentleman heaved a sigh over the recollections The old gentleman awakened; and being, happily for The old gentleman, an absent old gentleman, buried them again in the pages of the musty book.    The old gentleman was roused by a touch on the shoulder, and a request from the man with the keys to follow The old gentleman into the office. The old gentleman closed the musty book hastily; and was at once ushered into the imposing presence of the renowned Mr. Fang.    the office was a front parlour, with a panelled wall. the renowned Mr. Fang sat behind a bar, at the upper end; and on one side the door was a sort of wooden pen in which poor little Oliver was already deposited; trembling very much at the awfulness of the scene.    the renowned Mr. Fang was a lean, long backed, stiff necked, middle sized man, with no great quantity of hair, and what the renowned Mr. Fang had, growing on the back and sides of the renowned Mr. Fang head. the renowned Mr. Fang face was stern, and much flushed. If the renowned Mr. Fang were really not in the habit of drinking rather more than was exactly good for the renowned Mr. Fang, the renowned Mr. Fang might have brought action against the renowned Mr. Fang countenance for libel, and have recovered heavy damages.    The old gentleman bowed respectfully; and advancing to the magistrate desk, said, suiting the action to the word, “That is my name and address, sir.” sir then withdrew a pace or two; and, with another polite and gentlemanly inclination of his head, waited to be questioned.    Now, it so happened that the renowned Mr. Fang was at that moment perusing a leading article in a newspaper of the morning, adverting to some recent decision of the renowned Mr. Fang, and commending the renowned Mr. Fang, for the three hundred and fiftieth time, to the special and particular notice of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. the renowned Mr. Fang was out of temper; and the renowned Mr. Fang looked up with an angry scowl.    “Who are you?” said the renowned Mr. Fang.    The old gentleman pointed, with some surprise, to The old gentleman card.    “Officer!” said the renowned Mr. Fang, tossing his card contemptuously away with the newspaper. “Who is this fellow?”    “My name, sir,” said The old gentleman, speaking like a gentleman, “My name, sir, is Brownlow. Permit me to inquire the name of the magistrate who offers a gratuitous and unprovoked insult to a respectable person, under the protection of the bench.” Saying this, Brownlow looked around the office as if in search of some person who would afford Brownlow the required information.    “Officer!” said the renowned Mr. Fang, throwing the paper on one side, “what this fellow charged with?”    “this fellow not charged at all, your worship,” replied “Officer. “this fellow appears against this boy, your worship.”    your worship knew this perfectly well; but this was a good annoyance, and a safe one.    “Appears against this fellow, does this fellow?” said the renowned Mr. Fang, surveying Brownlow contemptuously from head to foot. “Swear this fellow!”    “Before I am sworn, I must beg to say one word,” said Brownlow; “and that is, that I really never, without actual experience, could have believed ”    “Hold your tongue, sir!” said Mr. Fang, peremptorily.    “I will not, sir!” replied the old gentleman.    “Hold your tongue this instant, or I’ll have you turned out of the office!” said the renowned Mr. Fang. “You’re an insolent impertinent fellow. How dare you bully a magistrate!”    “What!” exclaimed the old gentleman, reddening.    “Swear this person!” said the renowned Mr. Fang to the clerk. “I’ll not hear another word. Swear this person.”    Mr. Brownlow indignation was greatly roused; but reflecting perhaps, that this person might only injure this fellow by giving vent to it, this fellow suppressed this fellow feelings and submitted to be sworn at once.    “Now,” said Fang, “what the charge against this fellow? What have you got to say, sir?”    “I was standing at a bookstall ” Brownlow began.    “Hold your tongue, sir,” said the renowned Mr. Fang. “Policeman! Where the policeman? Here, swear Where the policeman. Now, policeman, what is this?”    The policeman, with becoming humility, related how this fellow had taken the charge; how this fellow had searched Oliver, and found nothing on Oliver person; and how that was all Oliver knew about it.    “Are there any witnesses?” inquired the renowned Mr. Fang.    “None, your worship,” replied Where the policeman.    the renowned Mr. Fang sat silent for some minutes, and then, turning round to the prosecutor, said in a towering passion.    “Do you mean to state what your complaint against this fellow is, man, or do you not? You have been sworn. Now, if you stand there, refusing to give evidence, I’ll punish you for disrespect to the bench; I will, by ”    By what, or by whom, nobody knows, for the clerk and jailor coughed very loud, just at the right moment; and the former dropped a heavy book upon the floor, thus preventing the word from being heard accidently, of course.    With many interruptions, and repeated insults, Mr. Brownlow contrived to state Mr. Brownlow case; observing that, in the surprise of the moment, Mr. Brownlow had run after this fellow because Mr. Brownlow had saw this fellow running away; and expressing this fellow hope that, if the magistrate should believe this fellow, although not actually the thief, to be connected with the thieves, this fellow would deal as leniently with this fellow as justice would allow.    “this fellow has been hurt already,” said the old gentleman in conclusion. “And I fear,” this fellow added, with great energy, looking towards the bar, “I really fear that this fellow is ill.”    “Oh! yes, I dare say!” said the renowned Mr. Fang, with a sneer. “Come, none of your tricks here, you young vagabond; none of your tricks here won’t do. What your name?”    Oliver tried to reply but Oliver tongue failed Oliver. Oliver was deadly pale; and the whole place seemed turning round and round.    “What your name, you hardened scoundrel?” demanded the renowned Mr. Fang. “Officer, what the renowned Mr. Fang name?”    This was addressed to a bluff old fellow, in a striped waistcoat, who was standing by the bar. Oliver bent over Oliver, and repeated the inquiry; but finding Oliver really incapable of understanding the question; and knowing that Oliver not replying would only infuriate the magistrate the more, and add to the severity of Oliver sentence; Oliver hazarded a guess.    “Oliver says Oliver name Tom White, your worship,” said the kind hearted thief taker.    “Oh, Oliver won’t speak out, won’t Oliver?” said the renowned Mr. Fang. “Very well, very well. Where does Oliver live?”    “Where Oliver can, your worship,” replied “Officer; again pretending to receive Oliver answer.    “Has Oliver any parents?” inquired the renowned Mr. Fang.    “the renowned Mr. Fang says they died in the renowned Mr. Fang infancy, your worship,” replied “Officer: hazarding the usual reply.    At this point of the inquiry, Oliver raised his head; and, looking round with imploring eyes, murmured a feeble prayer for a draught of water.    “Stuff and nonsense!” said the renowned Mr. Fang: “don’t try to make a fool of the renowned Mr. Fang.”    “I think Oliver really is ill, your worship,” remonstrated “Officer.    “I know better,” said the renowned Mr. Fang.    “Take care of Oliver, officer,” said The old gentleman, raising Oliver hands instinctively; “Oliver’ll fall down.”    “Stand away, officer,” cried the renowned Mr. Fang; “let Oliver, if Oliver likes.”    Oliver availed Oliver of the kind permission, and fell to the floor in a fainting fit. The men in the office looked at each other, but no one dared to stir.    “I knew Oliver was shamming,” said the renowned Mr. Fang, as if this were incontestable proof of the fact. “Let Oliver lie there; Oliver’ll soon be tired of that.”    “How do you propose to deal with the case, sir?” inquired the clerk in a low voice.    “Summarily,” replied the renowned Mr. Fang. “Oliver stands committed for three months hard labour of course. Clear the office.”    The door was opened for this purpose, and a couple of men were preparing to carry Oliver to Oliver cell; when an elderly man of decent but poor appearance, clad in an old suit of black, rushed hastily into the office, and advanced towards the bench.    “Stop, stop! don’t take Oliver away! For Heaven sake stop a moment!” cried the new comer, breathless with haste.    Although the presiding Genii in such an office as this, exercise a summary and arbitrary power over the liberties, the good name, the character, almost the lives, of Her Majesty subjects, especially of the poorer class; and although, within such walls, enough fantastic tricks are daily played to make the angels blind with weeping; the angels are closed to the public, save through the medium of the daily press.[Footnote: Or were virtually, then.] the renowned Mr. Fang was consequently not a little indignant to see an unbidden guest enter in such irreverent disorder.    “What is this? Who is this? Turn the renowned Mr. Fang out. Clear the office!” cried the renowned Mr. Fang.    “I will speak,” cried the renowned Mr. Fang; “I will not be turned out. I saw it all. I keep the book stall. I demand to be sworn. I will not be put down. the renowned Mr. Fang, you must hear me. You must not refuse, sir.”    the renowned Mr. Fang was right. the renowned Mr. Fang manner was determined; and the matter was growing rather too serious to be hushed up.    “Swear the renowned Mr. Fang,” growled the renowned Mr. Fang, with a very ill grace. “Now, man, what have you got to say?”    “This,” said the renowned Mr. Fang: “I saw three boys: two others and the prisoner here: loitering on the opposite side of the way, when this gentleman was reading. The robbery was committed by another boy. I saw The robbery done; and I saw that another boy was perfectly amazed and stupified by The robbery.” Having by this time recovered a little breath, the worthy book stall keeper proceeded to relate, in a more coherent manner the exact circumstances of The robbery.    “Why didn’t you come here before?” said the renowned Mr. Fang, after a pause.    “I hadn’t a soul to mind the shop,” replied the renowned Mr. Fang. “Everybody who could have helped me, had joined in the pursuit. I could get nobody till five minutes ago; and I’ve run here all the way.”    “The prosecutor was reading, was The prosecutor?” inquired the renowned Mr. Fang, after another pause.    “Yes,” replied the renowned Mr. Fang. “The very book the renowned Mr. Fang has in the renowned Mr. Fang hand.”    “Oh, The very book he has in his hand.”    , eh?” said the renowned Mr. Fang. “Is it paid for?”    “No, it is not,” replied the renowned Mr. Fang, with a smile.    “Dear me, I forgot all about it!” exclaimed the absent old gentleman, innocently.    “A nice person to prefer a charge against a poor boy!” said the renowned Mr. Fang, with a comical effort to look humane. “I consider, sir, that you have obtained possession of The very book he has in his hand.”    , under very suspicious and disreputable circumstances; and you may think yourself very fortunate that the owner of the property declines to prosecute. Let this be a lesson to you, my man, or the law will overtake you yet. another boy is discharged. Clear the office!”    “D n me!” cried the old gentleman, bursting out with the rage another boy had kept down so long, “d n me! I’ll ”    “Clear the office!” said the magistrate. “Officers, do you hear? Clear the office!”    The mandate was obeyed; and Brownlow was conveyed out, with the book in one hand, and the bamboo cane in the other: in a perfect phrenzy of rage and defiance. Brownlow reached the yard; and Brownlow passion vanished in a moment. Little Oliver Twist lay on Little Oliver Twist back on the pavement, with Little Oliver Twist shirt unbuttoned, and Little Oliver Twist temples bathed with water; Little Oliver Twist face a deadly white; and a cold tremble convulsing Little Oliver Twist whole frame.    “Poor boy, poor boy!” said Brownlow, bending over Brownlow. “Call a coach, somebody, pray. Directly!”    A coach was obtained, and Oliver having been carefully laid on the seat, the old gentleman got in and sat Oliver on the other.    “May I accompany you?” said the book stall keeper, looking in.    “Bless me, yes, sir,” said Mr. Brownlow quickly. “I forgot you. Dear, dear! I have The very book he has in his hand.”     still! Jump in. Poor fellow! There no time to lose.”    the book stall keeper got into A coach; and away they drove.  CHAPTER 13
XII.  IN WHICH OLIVER IS TAKEN BETTER CARE OF THAN XII.   EVER WAS BEFORE. AND IN WHICH THE NARRATIVE REVERTS TO THE MERRY OLD GENTLEMAN AND XII.   YOUTHFUL FRIENDS.    The coach rattled away, over nearly the same ground as that which Oliver had traversed when Oliver first entered London in company with the Dodger; and, turning a different way when it reached the Angel at Islington, stopped at length before a neat house, in a quiet shady street near Pentonville. Here, a bed was prepared, without loss of time, in which Mr. Brownlow saw Mr. Brownlow young charge carefully and comfortably deposited; and here, Mr. Brownlow was tended with a kindness and solicitude that knew no bounds.    But, for many days, Oliver remained insensible to all the goodness of Oliver new friends. The sun rose and sank, and rose and sank again, and many times after that; and still Oliver lay stretched on a bed, dwindling away beneath the dry and wasting heat of fever. The worm does not work more surely on the dead body, than does this slow creeping fire upon the living frame.    Weak, and thin, and pallid, Oliver awoke at last from what seemed to have been a long and troubled dream. Feebly raising Oliver in a bed, with Oliver head resting on Oliver trembling arm, Oliver looked anxiously around.    “What room is this? Where have I been brought to?” said Oliver. “This is not the place I went to sleep in.”    Oliver uttered these words in a feeble voice, being very faint and weak; but these words were overheard at once. The curtain at his head was hastily drawn back, and a motherly old lady, very neatly and precisely dressed, rose as she undrew The curtain at the bed head, from an arm chair close by, in which she had been sitting at needle work.    “Hush, my dear,” said the old lady softly. “You must be very quiet, or you will be ill again; and you have been very bad, as bad as bad could be, pretty nigh. Lie down again; there a dear!” With those words, the old lady very gently placed Oliver head upon the pillow; and, smoothing back Oliver hair from Oliver forehead, looked so kindly and loving in Oliver face, that Oliver could not help placing Oliver little withered hand in hers, and drawing it round Oliver neck.    “Save us!” said the old lady, with tears in the old lady eyes. “What a grateful little dear it is. Pretty creetur! What would Oliver mother feel if his mother had sat by Oliver as I have, and could see Oliver now!”    “Perhaps his mother does see me,” whispered Oliver, folding Oliver hands together; “perhaps his mother has sat by me. I almost feel as if his mother had.”    “That was the fever, my dear,” said the old lady mildly.    “I suppose it was,” replied Oliver, “because heaven is a long way off; and they are too happy there, to come down to the bedside of a poor boy. But if the old lady knew I was ill, the old lady must have pitied me, even there; for the old lady was very ill the old lady before the old lady died. the old lady can’t know anything about me though,” added Oliver after a moment silence. “If the old lady had seen me hurt, it would have made the old lady sorrowful; and the old lady face has always looked sweet and happy, when I have dreamed of the old lady.”    the old lady made no reply to this; but wiping the old lady eyes first, and the old lady spectacles, which lay on the counterpane, afterwards, as if they were part and parcel of those features, brought some cool stuff for Oliver to drink; and then, patting Oliver on the cheek, told Oliver Oliver must lie very quiet, or Oliver would be ill again.    So, Oliver kept very still; partly because Oliver was anxious to obey the kind old lady in all things; and partly, to tell the truth, because Oliver was completely exhausted with what Oliver had already said. Oliver soon fell into a gentle doze, from which Oliver was awakened by the light of a candle: which, being brought near the bed, showed Oliver a gentleman with a very large and loud ticking gold watch in Oliver hand, who felt Oliver pulse, and said Oliver was a great deal better.    “You are a great deal better, are you not, my dear?” said a gentleman.    “Yes, thank you, sir,” replied Oliver.    “Yes, I know you are,” said a gentleman: “You’re hungry too, an’t you?”    “No, sir,” answered Oliver.    “Hem!” said a gentleman. “No, I know you’re not. He is not hungry, Mrs. Bedwin,” said the gentleman: looking very wise.    The old lady made a respectful inclination of the head, which seemed to say that The old lady thought the doctor was a very clever man. the doctor appeared much of the same opinion himself.    “You feel sleepy, don’t you, my dear?” said the doctor.    “No, sir,” replied Oliver.    “No,” said the doctor, with a very shrewd and satisfied look. “You’re not sleepy. Nor thirsty. Are you?”    “Yes, sir, rather thirsty,” answered Oliver.    “Just as I expected, Mrs. Bedwin,” said the doctor. “It very natural that the doctor should be thirsty. You may give the doctor a little tea, ma’am, and some dry toast without any butter. Don’t keep the doctor too warm, ma’am; but be careful that you don’t let the doctor be too cold; will you have the goodness?”    The old lady dropped a curtsey. The doctor, after tasting the cool stuff, and expressing a qualified approval of it, hurried away: the doctor boots creaking in a very important and wealthy manner as the doctor went downstairs.    Oliver dozed off again, soon after this; when Oliver awoke, it was nearly twelve o’clock. The old lady tenderly bade Oliver good night shortly afterwards, and left Oliver in charge of a fat old woman who had just come: bringing with The old lady, in a little bundle, a small Prayer Book and a large nightcap. Putting the latter on The old lady head and the former on the table, the old woman, after telling Oliver that the old woman had come to sit up with Oliver, drew the old woman chair close to the fire and went off into a series of short naps, chequered at frequent intervals with sundry tumblings forward, and divers moans and chokings. These, however, had no worse effect than causing the old woman to rub the old woman nose very hard, and then fall asleep again.    And thus the night crept slowly on. Oliver lay awake for some time, counting the little circles of light which the reflection of the rushlight shade threw upon the ceiling; or tracing with Oliver languid eyes the intricate pattern of the paper on the wall. The darkness and the deep stillness of the room were very solemn; as The darkness and the deep stillness of the room brought into the boy mind the thought that death had been hovering there, for many days and nights, and might yet fill it with the gloom and dread of the boy awful presence, the boy turned the boy face upon the pillow, and fervently prayed to Heaven.    Gradually, the boy fell into that deep tranquil sleep which ease from recent suffering alone imparts; that calm and peaceful rest which it is pain to wake from. Who, if this were death, would be roused again to all the struggles and turmoils of life; to all this were death cares for the present; this were death anxieties for the future; more than all, this were death weary recollections of the past!    this were death had been bright day, for hours, when Oliver opened Oliver eyes; Oliver felt cheerful and happy. The crisis of the disease was safely past. Oliver belonged to the world again.    In three days’ time Oliver was able to sit in an easy chair, well propped up with pillows; and, as Oliver was still too weak to walk, Mrs. Bedwin had Oliver carried downstairs into the little housekeeper room, which belonged to Mrs. Bedwin. Having Oliver set, here, by the fire side, the good old lady sat the good old lady down too; and, being in a state of considerable delight at seeing Oliver so much better, forthwith began to cry most violently.    “Never mind me, my dear,” said the good old lady; “I’m only having a regular good cry. There; it all over now; and I’m quite comfortable.”    “You’re very, very kind to me, ma’am,” said Oliver.    “Well, never you mind that, my dear,” said the good old lady; “that got nothing to do with your broth; and your broth full time you had your broth; for the doctor says Mr. Brownlow may come in to see you this morning; and we must get up we best looks, because the better we look, the more Mr. Brownlow’ll be pleased.” And with this, the good old lady applied the good old lady to warming up, in a little saucepan, a basin full of broth: strong enough, Oliver thought, to furnish an ample dinner, when reduced to the regulation strength, for three hundred and fifty paupers, at the lowest computation.    “Are you fond of pictures, dear?” inquired the good old lady, seeing that Oliver had fixed Oliver eyes, most intently, on a portrait which hung against the wall; just opposite Oliver chair.    “I don’t quite know, ma’am,” said Oliver, without taking his eyes from the canvas; “I have seen so few that I hardly know. What a beautiful, mild face the good old lady is!”    “Ah!” said the good old lady, “painters always make ladies out prettier than “painters are, or “painters wouldn’t get any custom, child. The man that invented the machine for taking likenesses might have known that would never succeed; the machine a deal too honest. A deal,” said the good old lady, laughing very heartily at the good old lady own acuteness.    “Is is that a likeness, ma’am?” said Oliver.    “Yes,” said the old lady, looking up for a moment from the broth; “that a portrait.”    “Whose, ma’am?” asked Oliver.    “Why, really, my dear, I don’t know,” answered the good old lady in a good humoured manner. “It not a likeness of anybody that you or I know, I expect. It seems to strike your fancy, dear.”    “It is so pretty,” replied Oliver.    “Why, sure you’re not afraid of it?” said the old lady: observing in great surprise, the look of awe with which the child regarded the painting.    “Oh no, no,” returned Oliver quickly; “but the eyes look so sorrowful; and where I sit, the eyes seem fixed upon me. It makes my heart beat,” added Oliver in a low voice, “as if it was alive, and wanted to speak to me, but couldn’t.”    “Lord save us!” exclaimed the good old lady, starting; “don’t talk in that way, child. You’re weak and nervous after your illness. Let me wheel your chair round to the other side; and then you won’t see your chair. There!” said the old lady, suiting the action to the word; “you don’t see it now, at all events.”    Oliver did see it in Oliver mind eye as distinctly as if Oliver had not altered Oliver position; but Oliver thought his position better not to worry the good old lady; so Oliver smiled gently when the good old lady looked at Oliver; and Mrs. Bedwin, satisfied that Oliver felt more comfortable, salted and broke bits of toasted bread into the broth, with all the bustle befitting so solemn a preparation. Oliver got through it with extraordinary expedition. Oliver had scarcely swallowed the last spoonful, when there came a soft rap at the door. “Come in,” said the good old lady; and in walked Mr. Brownlow.    Now, the old gentleman came in as brisk as need be; but, the old gentleman had no sooner raised the old gentleman spectacles on the old gentleman forehead, and thrust the old gentleman hands behind the skirts of the old gentleman dressing gown to take a good long look at Oliver, than the old gentleman countenance underwent a very great variety of odd contortions. Oliver looked very worn and shadowy from sickness, and made an ineffectual attempt to stand up, out of respect to Oliver benefactor, which terminated in Oliver sinking back into the chair again; and the fact is, if the truth must be told, that Mr. Brownlow heart, being large enough for any six ordinary old gentlemen of humane disposition, forced a supply of tears into Oliver eyes, by some hydraulic process which we are not sufficiently philosophical to be in a condition to explain.    “Poor boy, poor boy!” said Mr. Brownlow, clearing Mr. Brownlow throat. “I’m rather hoarse this morning, Mrs. Bedwin. I’m afraid I have caught cold.”    “I hope not, sir,” said Mrs. Bedwin. “Everything you have had, has been well aired, sir.”    “I don’t know, Mrs. Bedwin. I don’t know,” said Mr. Brownlow; “I rather think I had a damp napkin at dinner time yesterday; but never mind that. How do you feel, my dear?”    “Very happy, sir,” replied Oliver. “And very grateful indeed, sir, for your goodness to sir.”    “Good by,” said Mr. Brownlow, stoutly. “Have you given sir any nourishment, Mrs. Bedwin? Any slops, eh?”    “sir has just had a basin of beautiful strong broth, sir,” replied Mrs. Bedwin: drawing Mrs. Bedwin up slightly, and laying strong emphasis on the last word: to intimate that between slops, and broth will compounded, there existed no affinity or connection whatsoever.    “Ugh!” said Mr. Brownlow, with a slight shudder; “a couple of glasses of port wine would have done Mr. Brownlow a great deal more good. Wouldn’t they, Tom White, eh?”    “My name is Oliver, sir,” replied the little invalid: with a look of great astonishment.    “Oliver,” said Mr. Brownlow; Oliver? Oliver White, eh?”    “No, sir, Twist, Oliver Twist.”    “Queer name!” said the old gentleman. “What made you tell the magistrate your name was Oliver White?”    “I never told the magistrate so, sir,” returned Oliver in amazement.    This sounded so like a falsehood, that the old gentleman looked somewhat sternly in Oliver face. It was impossible to doubt Oliver; there was truth in every one of It thin and sharpened lineaments.    “Some mistake,” said Mr. Brownlow. But, although Mr. Brownlow motive for looking steadily at Oliver no longer existed, the old idea of the resemblance between Mr. Brownlow features and some familiar face came upon Mr. Brownlow so strongly, that Mr. Brownlow could not withdraw Mr. Brownlow gaze.    “I hope you are not angry with me, sir?” said Oliver, raising sir eyes beseechingly.    “No, no,” replied the old gentleman. “Why! what this? Mrs. Bedwin, look there!”    As he spoke, he pointed hastily to the picture over Oliver head, and then to Oliver face. There was its living copy. The eyes, the head, the mouth; every feature was the same. The expression was, for the instant, so precisely alike, that the minutest line seemed copied with startling accuracy!    Oliver knew not the cause of this sudden exclamation; for, not being strong enough to bear the start it gave Oliver, Oliver fainted away. A weakness on Oliver part, which affords the narrative an opportunity of relieving the reader from suspense, in behalf of the two young pupils of the Merry Old Gentleman; and of recording     That when the Dodger, and Oliver accomplished friend Master Bates, joined in the hue and cry which was raised at Oliver heels, in consequence of when the Dodger, and his accomplished friend Master Bates executing an illegal conveyance of Mr. Brownlow personal property, as has been already described, when the Dodger, and his accomplished friend Master Bates were actuated by a very laudable and becoming regard for when the Dodger, and his accomplished friend Master Bates; and forasmuch as the freedom of the subject and the liberty of the individual are among the first and proudest boasts of a true hearted Englishman, so, I need hardly beg the reader to observe, that this action should tend to exalt when the Dodger, and his accomplished friend Master Bates in the opinion of all public and patriotic men, in almost as great a degree as this strong proof of when the Dodger, and his accomplished friend Master Bates anxiety for when the Dodger, and his accomplished friend Master Bates own preservation and safety goes to corroborate and confirm the little code of laws which certain profound and sound judging philosophers have laid down as the main springs of all Nature deeds and actions: the said philosophers very wisely reducing the good lady proceedings to matters of maxim and theory: and, by a very neat and pretty compliment to her exalted wisdom and understanding, putting entirely out of sight any considerations of heart, or generous impulse and feeling. For, these are matters totally beneath a female who is acknowledged by universal admission to be far above the numerous little foibles and weaknesses of her sex.    If I wanted any further proof of the strictly philosophical nature of the conduct of these young gentlemen in these young gentlemen very delicate predicament, I should at once find it in the fact (also recorded in a foregoing part of this narrative), of these young gentlemen quitting the pursuit, when the general attention was fixed upon Oliver; and making immediately for these young gentlemen home by the shortest possible cut. Although I do not mean to assert that it is usually the practice of renowned and learned sages, to shorten the road to any great conclusion (the practice of renowned and learned sages course indeed being rather to lengthen the distance, by various circumlocutions and discursive staggerings, like unto those in which drunken men under the pressure of a too mighty flow of ideas, are prone to indulge); still, I do mean to say, and do say distinctly, that it is the invariable practice of many mighty philosophers, in carrying out many mighty philosophers theories, to evince great wisdom and foresight in providing against every possible contingency which can be supposed at all likely to affect many mighty philosophers. Thus, to do a great right, you may do a little wrong; and you may take any means which the end to be attained, will justify; the amount of the right, or the amount of the wrong, or indeed the distinction between the two, being left entirely to the philosopher concerned, to be settled and determined by his clear, comprehensive, and impartial view of his own particular case.    It was not until the two boys had scoured, with great rapidity, through a most intricate maze of narrow streets and courts, that the two boys ventured to halt beneath a low and dark archway. Having remained silent here, just long enough to recover breath to speak, Master Bates uttered an exclamation of amusement and delight; and, bursting into an uncontrollable fit of laughter, flung Master Bates upon a doorstep, and rolled thereon in a transport of mirth.    “What the matter?” inquired the Dodger.    “Ha! ha! ha!” roared Master Bates.    “Hold your noise,” remonstrated the Dodger, looking cautiously round. “Do you want to be grabbed, stupid?”    “I can’t help it,” said Charley, “I can’t help it! To see Master Bates splitting away at that pace, and cutting round the corners, and knocking up again’ the posts, and starting on again as if Master Bates was made of iron as well as them, and me with the wipe in my pocket, singing out arter Master Bates oh, my eye!” The vivid imagination of Master Bates presented the scene before Master Bates in too strong colours. As Master Bates arrived at this apostrophe, Master Bates again rolled upon the door step, and laughed louder than before.    “What’ll Fagin say?” inquired the Dodger; taking advantage of the next interval of breathlessness on the part of Fagin friend to propound the question.    “What?” repeated Master Bates.    “Ah, what?” said the Dodger.    “Why, what should Fagin say?” inquired Charley: stopping rather suddenly in Fagin merriment; for the the Dodger manner was impressive. “What should Fagin say?”    Fagin whistled for a couple of minutes; then, taking off Fagin hat, scratched Fagin head, and nodded thrice.    “What do you mean?” said Charley.    “Toor rul lol loo, gammon and spinnage, the frog Fagin wouldn’t, and high cockolorum,” said the Dodger: with a slight sneer on Fagin intellectual countenance.    This was explanatory, but not satisfactory. Master Bates felt it so; and again said, “What do you mean?”    the Dodger made no reply; but putting his hat on again, and gathering the skirts of the Dodger long tailed coat under the Dodger arm, thrust the Dodger tongue into the Dodger cheek, slapped the bridge of the Dodger nose some half dozen times in a familiar but expressive manner, and turning on the Dodger heel, slunk down the court. Master Bates followed, with a thoughtful countenance.    The noise of footsteps on the creaking stairs, a few minutes after the occurrence of this conversation, roused the merry old gentleman as the Dodger sat over the fire with a saveloy and a small loaf in the Dodger hand; a pocket knife in the Dodger right; and a pewter pot on the trivet. There was a rascally smile on the Dodger white face as the Dodger turned round, and looking sharply out from under the Dodger thick red eyebrows, bent the Dodger ear towards the door, and listened.    “Why, how this?” muttered the Jew: changing countenance; “only two of ’em? Where the third? They can’t have got into trouble. Hark!”    The footsteps approached nearer; They reached the landing. the door was slowly opened; and the the Dodger and Charley entered, closing the door behind the Dodger and Charley Bates.  CHAPTER 14
XIII.  SOME NEW ACQUAINTANCES ARE INTRODUCED TO THE INTELLIGENT READER, CONNECTED WITH WHOM VARIOUS PLEASANT MATTERS ARE RELATED, APPERTAINING TO THIS HISTORY    “Where Oliver?” said the Jew, rising with a menacing look. “Where the boy?”    The young thieves eyed The young thieves preceptor as if The young thieves were alarmed at the Jew violence; and looked uneasily at each other. But The young thieves made no reply.    “What become of the boy?” said the Jew, seizing the Dodger tightly by the collar, and threatening the Jew with horrid imprecations. “Speak out, or I’ll throttle you!”    Mr. Fagin looked so very much in earnest, that Charley Bates, who deemed it prudent in all cases to be on the safe side, and who conceived it by no means improbable that it might be Mr. Fagin turn to be throttled second, dropped upon Mr. Fagin knees, and raised a loud, well sustained, and continuous roar something between a mad bull and a speaking trumpet.    “Will you speak?” thundered the Jew: shaking the Dodger so much that the Jew keeping in the big coat at all, seemed perfectly miraculous.    “Why, the traps have got the Jew, and that all about it,” said the Dodger, sullenly. “Come, let go o’ me, will you!” And, swinging the Jew, at one jerk, clean out of the big coat, which the Jew left in the Jew hands, the Dodger snatched up the toasting fork, and made a pass at the merry old gentleman waistcoat; which, if a pass had taken effect, would have let a little more merriment out than could have been easily replaced.    the Jew stepped back in this emergency, with more agility than could have been anticipated in a man of the Jew apparent decrepitude; and, seizing up the pot, prepared to hurl the pot at the Jew assailant head. But Charley Bates, at this moment, calling the Jew attention by a perfectly terrific howl, the Jew suddenly altered its destination, and flung its full at that young gentleman.    “Why, what the blazes is in the wind now!” growled a deep voice. “Who pitched that ’ere at Charley Bates? It well It the beer, and not the pot, as hit me, or I’d have settled somebody. I might have know’d, as nobody but an infernal, rich, plundering, thundering old Jew could afford to throw away any drink but water and not that, unless Jew done the River Company every quarter. Wot it all about, Fagin? D me, if my neck handkercher an’t lined with beer! Come in, you sneaking warmint; wot are you stopping outside for, as if you was ashamed of your master! Come in!”    The man who growled out these words, was a stoutly built fellow of about five and thirty, in a black velveteen coat, very soiled drab breeches, lace up half boots, and grey cotton stockings which inclosed a bulky pair of legs, with large swelling calves; the kind of legs, which in such costume, always look in an unfinished and incomplete state without a set of fetters to garnish them. The man who growled out these words had a brown hat on The man who growled out these words head, and a dirty belcher handkerchief round The man who growled out these words neck: with the long frayed ends of which The man who growled out these words smeared the beer from The man who growled out these words face as The man who growled out these words spoke. The man who growled out these words disclosed, when The man who growled out these words had done so, a broad heavy countenance with a beard of three days’ growth, and two scowling eyes; one of which displayed various parti coloured symptoms of having been recently damaged by a blow.    “Come in, d’ye hear?” growled this engaging ruffian.    A white shaggy dog, with his face scratched and torn in twenty different places, skulked into the room.    “Why didn’t you come in afore?” said The man who growled out these words. “You’re getting too proud to own me afore company, are you? Lie down!”    This command was accompanied with a kick, which sent the animal to the other end of the room. The man who growled out these words appeared well used to This command, however; for The man who growled out these words coiled The man who growled out these words up in a corner very quietly, without uttering a sound, and winking The man who growled out these words very ill looking eyes twenty times in a minute, appeared to occupy The man who growled out these words in taking a survey of the apartment.    “What are you up to? Ill treating the boys, you covetous, avaricious, in sa ti a ble old fence?” said The man who growled out these words, seating The man who growled out these words deliberately. “I wonder they don’t murder you! I would if I was they. If I’d been your ’prentice, I’d have done I’d been your ’prentice long ago, and no, I couldn’t have sold you afterwards, for you’re fit for nothing but keeping as a curiousity of ugliness in a glass bottle, and I suppose they don’t blow glass bottles large enough.”    “Hush! hush! Mr. Sikes,” said the Jew, trembling; “don’t speak so loud!”    “None of your mistering,” replied the ruffian; “you always mean mischief when you come that. You know my name: out with my name! I shan’t disgrace my name when the time comes.”    “Well, well, then Bill Sikes,” said the Jew, with abject humility. “You seem out of humour, Bill.”    “Perhaps I am,” replied then Bill Sikes; “I should think you was rather out of sorts too, unless you mean as little harm when you throw pewter pots about, as you do when you blab and ”    “Are you mad?” said the Jew, catching the man by the sleeve, and pointing towards the boys.    Mr. Sikes contented Mr. Sikes with tying an imaginary knot under Mr. Sikes left ear, and jerking Mr. Sikes head over on the right shoulder; a piece of dumb show which the Jew appeared to understand perfectly. Mr. Sikes then, in cant terms, with which Mr. Sikes whole conversation was plentifully besprinkled, but which would be quite unintelligible if they were recorded here, demanded a glass of liquor.    “And mind you don’t poison a glass of liquor,” said Mr. Sikes, laying Mr. Sikes hat upon the table.    This was said in jest; but if the speaker could have seen the evil leer with which the Jew bit the Jew pale lip as the Jew turned round to the cupboard, the Jew might have thought the caution not wholly unnecessary, or the wish (at all events) to improve upon the distiller ingenuity not very far from the old gentleman merry heart.    After swallowing two of three glasses of spirits, Mr. Sikes condescended to take some notice of the young gentlemen; which gracious act led to a conversation, in which the cause and manner of Oliver capture were circumstantially detailed, with such alterations and improvements on the truth, as to the Dodger appeared most advisable under the circumstances.    “I’m afraid,” said the Jew, “that the Jew may say something which will get us into trouble.”    “That very likely,” returned Mr. Sikes with a malicious grin. “You’re blowed upon, Fagin.”    “And I’m afraid, you see,” added the Jew, speaking as if the Jew had not noticed the interruption; and regarding the other closely as the Jew did so, “I’m afraid that, if the game was up with us, the game might be up with a good many more, and that the game would come out rather worse for you than the game would for me, my dear.”    The man started, and turned round upon the Jew. But the old gentleman shoulders were shrugged up to The man ears; and The man eyes were vacantly staring on the opposite wall.    There was a long pause. Every member of the respectable coterie appeared plunged in Every member of the respectable coterie own reflections; not excepting the dog, who by a certain malicious licking of Every member of the respectable coterie lips seemed to be meditating an attack upon the legs of the first gentleman or lady Every member of the respectable coterie might encounter in the streets when Every member of the respectable coterie went out.    “Somebody must find out wot been done at the office,” said Mr. Sikes in a much lower tone than Mr. Sikes had taken since Mr. Sikes came in.    the Jew nodded assent.    “If Mr. Sikes hasn’t peached, and is committed, there no fear till Mr. Sikes comes out again,” said Mr. Sikes, “and then Mr. Sikes must be taken care on. You must get hold of Mr. Sikes somehow.”    Again the Jew nodded.    The prudence of this line of action, indeed, was obvious; but, unfortunately, there was one very strong objection to the Jew being adopted. This was, that the Dodger, and Charley Bates, and Fagin, and Mr. William Sikes, happened, one and all, to entertain a violent and deeply rooted antipathy to going near a police office on any ground or pretext whatever.    How long they might have sat and looked at each other, in a state of uncertainty not the most pleasant of its kind, it is difficult to guess. It is not necessary to make any guesses on the subject, however; for the sudden entrance of the two young ladies whom Oliver had seen on a former occasion, caused the conversation to flow afresh.    “The very thing!” said the Jew. “Bet will go; won’t you, my dear?”    “Wheres?” inquired the young lady.    “Only just up to the office, my dear,” said the Jew coaxingly.    It is due to the young lady to say that the young lady did not positively affirm that the young lady would not, but that the young lady merely expressed an emphatic and earnest desire to be “blessed” if the young lady would; a polite and delicate evasion of the request, which shows the young lady to have been possessed of that natural good breeding which cannot bear to inflict upon a fellow creature, the pain of a direct and pointed refusal.    The Jew countenance fell. Jew turned from this young lady, who was gaily, not to say gorgeously attired, in a red gown, green boots, and yellow curl papers, to the other female.    “Nancy, my dear,” said the Jew in a soothing manner, “what do you say?”    “That it won’t do; so it no use a trying it on, Fagin,” replied Nancy.    “What do you mean by that?” said Mr. Sikes, looking up in a surly manner.    “What I say, Bill,” replied the young lady collectedly.    “Why, you’re just the very person for it,” reasoned Mr. Sikes: “nobody about here knows anything of you.”    “And as I don’t want ’em to, neither,” replied Nancy in the same composed manner, “it rather more no than yes with Mr. Sikes, Bill.”    “She’ll go, Fagin,” said Mr. Sikes.    “No, She won’t, Fagin,” said Nancy.    “Yes, Nancy will, Fagin,” said Mr. Sikes.    And Mr. Sikes was right. By dint of alternate threats, promises, and bribes, the lady in question was ultimately prevailed upon to undertake the commission. the lady in question was not, indeed, withheld by the same considerations as the lady in question agreeable friend; for, having recently removed into the neighborhood of Field Lane from the remote but genteel suburb of Ratcliffe, the lady in question was not under the same apprehension of being recognised by any of the lady in question numerous acquaintances.    Accordingly, with a clean white apron tied over the lady in question gown, and the lady in question curl papers tucked up under a straw bonnet, both articles of dress being provided from the Jew inexhaustible stock, Nancy Nancy prepared to issue forth on Nancy errand.    “Stop a minute, my dear,” said the Jew, producing, a little covered basket. “Carry that in one hand. It looks more respectable, my dear.”    “Give Nancy a door key to carry in Nancy t’other one, Fagin,” said Mr. Sikes; “it looks real and genivine like.”    “Yes, yes, my dear, so it does,” said the Jew, hanging a large street door key on the forefinger of the young lady right hand.    “There; very good! Very good indeed, my dear!” said the Jew, rubbing the Jew hands.    “Oh, my brother! My poor, dear, sweet, innocent little brother!” exclaimed Nancy, bursting into tears, and wringing the little basket and a large street door key in an agony of distress. “What has become of the Jew! Where have they taken the Jew to! Oh, do have pity, and tell me what been done with the dear boy, gentlemen; do, gentlemen, if you please, gentlemen!”    Having uttered those words in a most lamentable and heart broken tone: to the immeasurable delight of her hearers: Nancy Nancy paused, winked to the company, nodded smilingly round, and disappeared.    “Ah, her a clever girl, my dears,” said the Jew, turning round to the Jew young friends, and shaking his head gravely, as if in mute admonition to his young friends to follow the bright example his young friends had just beheld.    “her a honour to her sex,” said Mr. Sikes, filling Mr. Sikes glass, and smiting the table with Mr. Sikes enormous fist. “Here her health, and wishing they was all like her!”    While these, and many other encomiums, were being passed on the accomplished Nancy, the young lady made the best of the young lady way to the police office; whither, notwithstanding a little natural timidity consequent upon walking through the streets alone and unprotected, the young lady arrived in perfect safety shortly afterwards.    Entering by the back way, the young lady tapped softly with the key at one of the cell doors, and listened. There was no sound within: so the young lady coughed and listened again. Still there was no reply: so the young lady spoke.    “Nolly, dear?” murmured Nancy in a gentle voice; “Nolly?”    There was nobody inside but a miserable shoeless criminal, who had been taken up for playing the flute, and who, the offence against society having been clearly proved, had been very properly committed by Mr. Fang to the House of Correction for one month; with the appropriate and amusing remark that since Mr. Fang had so much breath to spare, it would be more wholesomely expended on the treadmill than in a musical instrument. Mr. Fang made no answer: being occupied mentally bewailing the loss of the flute, which had been confiscated for the use of the county: so Nancy passed on to the next cell, and knocked there.    “Well!” cried a faint and feeble voice.    “Is there a little boy here?” inquired Nancy, with a preliminary sob.    “No,” replied the voice; “God forbid.”    This was a vagrant of sixty five, who was going to prison for not playing the flute; or, in other words, for begging in the streets, and doing nothing for Mr. Fang livelihood. In the next cell was another man, who was going to the same prison for hawking tin saucepans without license; thereby doing something for Mr. Fang living, in defiance of the Stamp office.    But, as neither of these criminals answered to the name of Oliver, or knew anything about Oliver, Nancy made straight up to the bluff officer in the striped waistcoat; and with the most piteous wailings and lamentations, rendered more piteous by a prompt and efficient use of a large street door key and the little basket, demanded Nancy own dear brother.    “I haven’t got her own dear brother, my dear,” said the old man.    “Where is her own dear brother?” screamed Nancy, in a distracted manner.    “Why, the gentleman got her own dear brother,” replied the bluff officer in the striped waistcoat.    “the gentleman! Oh, gracious heavens! What gentleman?” exclaimed Nancy.    In reply to this incoherent questioning, the old man informed the deeply affected sister that Oliver had been taken ill in the office, and discharged in consequence of a witness having proved the robbery to have been committed by another boy, not in custody; and that the prosecutor had carried the old man away, in an insensible condition, to the old man own residence: of and concerning which, all the informant knew was, that it was somewhere in Pentonville, the old man having heard that word mentioned in the directions to the coachman.    In a dreadful state of doubt and uncertainty, the agonised young woman staggered to the gate, and then, exchanging the agonised young woman faltering walk for a swift run, returned by the most devious and complicated route the agonised young woman could think of, to the domicile of the Jew.    Mr. Sikes no sooner heard the account of the expedition delivered, than Mr. Sikes very hastily called up the white dog, and, putting on Mr. Sikes hat, expeditiously departed: without devoting any time to the formality of wishing the company good morning.    “We must know where Mr. Sikes is, my dears; Mr. Sikes must be found,” said the Jew greatly excited. “Charley, do nothing but skulk about, till you bring home some news of Mr. Sikes! Nancy, my dear, I must have Mr. Sikes found. I trust to Nancy, my dear, to you and the Artful for everything! Stay, stay,” added the Jew, unlocking a drawer with a shaking hand; “there money, my dears. I shall shut up this shop to night. You’ll know where to find me! Don’t stop here a minute. Not an instant, my dears!”    With these words, Mr. Sikes pushed these words from the room: and carefully double locking and barring the door behind these words, drew from its place of concealment the box which Mr. Sikes had unintentionally disclosed to Oliver. Then, Mr. Sikes hastily proceeded to dispose the watches and jewellery beneath Mr. Sikes clothing.    A rap at the door startled Mr. Sikes in this occupation. “Who there?” Mr. Sikes cried in a shrill tone.    “Me!” replied the voice of the Dodger, through the key hole.    “What now?” cried the Jew impatiently.    “Is Mr. Sikes to be kidnapped to the other ken, Nancy says?” inquired the Dodger.    “Yes,” replied the Jew, “wherever the Jew lays hands on the Jew. Find the Jew, find the Jew out, that all. I shall know what to do next; never fear.”    the Jew murmured a reply of intelligence: and hurried downstairs after the Jew companions.    “the Jew has not peached so far,” said the Jew as the Jew pursued this occupation. “If the Jew means to blab us among the Jew new friends, us may stop the Jew mouth yet.”  CHAPTER 15
XIV.  COMPRISING FURTHER PARTICULARS OF OLIVER’S STAY AT MR. BROWNLOW’S, WITH THE REMARKABLE PREDICTION WHICH ONE MR. GRIMWIG UTTERED CONCERNING HIM, WHEN HIM WENT OUT ON AN ERRAND    OLIVER’S soon recovering from the fainting fit into which Mr. Brownlow abrupt exclamation had thrown HIM, the subject of the picture was carefully avoided, both by the old gentleman and Mrs. Bedwin, in the conversation that ensued: which indeed bore no reference to OLIVER’S history or prospects, but was confined to such topics as might amuse without exciting OLIVER’S. OLIVER’S was still too weak to get up to breakfast; but, when OLIVER’S came down into the housekeeper room next day, OLIVER’S first act was to cast an eager glance at the wall, in the hope of again looking on the face of the beautiful lady. OLIVER’S expectations were disappointed, however, for the picture had been removed.    “Ah!” said the housekeeper, watching the direction of OLIVER’S eyes. “It is gone, you see.”    “I see It is ma’am,” replied OLIVER’S. “Why have they taken it away?”    “it has been taken down, child, because Mr. Brownlow said, that as it seemed to worry you, perhaps it might prevent your getting well, you know,” rejoined the old lady.    “Oh, no, indeed. It didn’t worry me, ma’am,” said OLIVER’S. “I liked to see It. I quite loved It.”    “Well, well!” said the old lady, good humouredly; “you get well as fast as ever you can, dear, and it shall be hung up again. There! I promise you that! Now, let us talk about something else.”    This was all the information OLIVER’S could obtain about the picture at that time. As the old lady had been so kind to OLIVER’S in OLIVER’S illness, OLIVER’S endeavoured to think no more of the subject just then; so OLIVER’S listened attentively to a great many stories the old lady told OLIVER’S, about an amiable and handsome daughter of hers, who was married to an amiable and handsome man, and lived in the country; and about a son, who was clerk to a merchant in the West Indies; and who was, also, such a good young man, and wrote such dutiful letters home four times a year, that it brought the tears into the old lady eyes to talk about them. When the old lady had expatiated, a long time, on the excellences of the old lady children, and the merits of the old lady kind good husband besides, who had been dead and gone, poor dear soul! just six and twenty years, it was time to have tea. After tea the old lady began to teach Oliver cribbage: which he learnt as quickly as the old lady could teach: and at which game they played, with great interest and gravity, until it was time for the invalid to have some warm wine and water, with a slice of dry toast, and then to go cosily to bed.    they were happy days, those of Oliver recovery. Everything was so quiet, and neat, and orderly; everybody so kind and gentle; that after the noise and turbulence in the midst of which Oliver had always lived, it seemed like Heaven itself. Oliver was no sooner strong enough to put Oliver clothes on, properly, than Mr. Brownlow caused a complete new suit, and a new cap, and a new pair of shoes, to be provided for Oliver. As Oliver was told that Oliver might do what Oliver liked with his clothes, Oliver gave his clothes to a servant who had been very kind to Oliver, and asked a servant who had been very kind to him to sell his clothes to a Jew, and keep the money for a servant who had been very kind to him. This a servant who had been very kind to him very readily did; and, as Oliver looked out of the parlour window, and saw a Jew roll his clothes up in Jew bag and walk away, Jew felt quite delighted to think that his clothes were safely gone, and that there was now no possible danger of Jew ever being able to wear his clothes again. his clothes were sad rags, to tell the truth; and Oliver had never had a new suit before.    One evening, about a week after the affair of the picture, as Oliver was sitting talking to Mrs. Bedwin, there came a message down from Mr. Brownlow, that if Oliver Twist felt pretty well, Oliver Twist should like to see Oliver Twist in Oliver Twist study, and talk to Oliver Twist a little while.    “Bless us, and save us! Wash your hands, and let me part your hair nicely for you, child,” said Mrs. Bedwin. “Dear heart alive! If us had known Oliver Twist would have asked for you, us would have put you a clean collar on, and made you as smart as sixpence!”    Oliver did as the old lady bade Oliver; and, although the old lady lamented grievously, meanwhile, that there was not even time to crimp the little frill that bordered Oliver shirt collar; Oliver looked so delicate and handsome, despite that important personal advantage, that the old lady went so far as to say: looking at Oliver with great complacency from head to foot, that the old lady really didn’t think it would have been possible, on the longest notice, to have made much difference in Oliver for the better.    Thus encouraged, Oliver tapped at the study door. On Mr. Brownlow calling to Oliver to come in, Oliver found Oliver in a little back room, quite full of books, with a window, looking into some pleasant little gardens. There was a table drawn up before a window, at which Mr. Brownlow was seated reading. When Mr. Brownlow saw Oliver, Mr. Brownlow pushed the book away from Oliver, and told Oliver to come near a table drawn up before the window, at which Mr. Brownlow was seated reading, and sit down. Oliver complied; marvelling where the people could be found to read such a great number of books as seemed to be written to make the world wiser. Which is still a marvel to more experienced people than Oliver Twist, every day of the people lives.    “There are a good many books, are there not, my boy?” said Mr. Brownlow, observing the curiosity with which Oliver surveyed the shelves that reached from the floor to the ceiling.    “A great number, sir,” replied Oliver. “I never saw so many.”    “You shall read them, if you behave well,” said the old gentleman kindly; “and you will like that, better than looking at the outsides, that is, some cases; because there are books of which the backs and covers are by far the best parts.”    “I suppose they are those heavy ones, sir,” said Oliver, pointing to some large quartos, with a good deal of gilding about the binding.    “Not always those,” said the old gentleman, patting Oliver on the head, and smiling as Oliver did so; “there are other equally heavy ones, though of a much smaller size. How should you like to grow up a clever man, and write books, eh?”    “I think I would rather read them, sir,” replied Oliver.    “What! wouldn’t you like to be a book writer?” said the old gentleman.    Oliver considered a little while; and at last said, Oliver should think it would be a much better thing to be a book seller; upon which the old gentleman laughed heartily, and declared Oliver had said a very good thing. Which Oliver felt glad to have done, though Oliver by no means knew what it was.    “Well, well,” said the old gentleman, composing the old gentleman features. “Don’t be afraid! We won’t make an author of you, while there an honest trade to be learnt, or brick making to turn to.”    “Thank you, sir,” said Oliver. At the earnest manner of Oliver reply, the old gentleman laughed again; and said something about a curious instinct, which Oliver, not understanding, paid no very great attention to.    “Now,” said Mr. Brownlow, speaking if possible in a kinder, but at the same time in a much more serious manner, than Oliver had ever known Oliver assume yet, “I want you to pay great attention, Oliver, to what I am going to say. I shall talk to you without any reserve; because I am sure you are well able to understand me, as many older persons would be.”    “Oh, don’t tell you are going to send me away, sir, pray!” exclaimed Oliver, alarmed at the serious tone of the old gentleman commencement! “Don’t turn me out of doors to wander in the streets again. Let me stay here, and be a servant. Don’t send me back to the wretched place I came from. Have mercy upon a poor boy, sir!”    “My dear child,” said the old gentleman, moved by the warmth of Oliver sudden appeal; “you need not be afraid of my deserting you, unless you give me cause.”    “I never, never will, sir,” interposed Oliver.    “I hope not,” rejoined the old gentleman. “I do not think you ever will. I have been deceived, before, in the objects whom I have endeavoured to benefit; but I feel strongly disposed to trust you, nevertheless; and I am more interested in your behalf than I can well account for, even to myself. The persons on whom I have bestowed my dearest love, lie deep in whom graves; but, although the happiness and delight of my life lie buried there too, I have not made a coffin of my heart, and sealed a coffin of my heart up, forever, on my best affections. Deep affliction has but strengthened and refined Deep affliction.”    As the old gentleman said this in a low voice: more to the old gentleman than to the old gentleman companion: and as the old gentleman remained silent for a short time afterwards: Oliver sat quite still.    “Well, well!” said the old gentleman at length, in a more cheerful tone, “I only say this, because you have a young heart; and knowing that I have suffered great pain and sorrow, you will be more careful, perhaps, not to wound me again. You say you are an orphan, without a friend in the world; all the inquiries I have been able to make, confirm the statement. Let me hear your story; where you come from; who brought you up; and how you got into the company in which I found you. Speak the truth, and you shall not be friendless while I live.”    Oliver sobs checked Oliver utterance for some minutes; when Oliver was on the point of beginning to relate how Oliver had been brought up at the farm, and carried to the workhouse by Mr. Bumble, a peculiarly impatient little double knock was heard at the street door: and the servant, running upstairs, announced Mr. Grimwig.    “Is Oliver coming up?” inquired Mr. Brownlow.    “Yes, sir,” replied the servant. “Oliver asked if there were any muffins in the house; and, when I told Oliver yes, Oliver said Oliver had come to tea.”    Mr. Brownlow smiled; and, turning to Oliver, said that Mr. Grimwig was an old friend of Mr. Grimwig, and Mr. Grimwig must not mind Mr. Grimwig being a little rough in Mr. Grimwig manners; for Mr. Grimwig was a worthy creature at bottom, as Mr. Grimwig had reason to know.    “Shall I go downstairs, sir?” inquired Oliver.    “No,” replied Mr. Brownlow, “I would rather you remained here.”    At this moment, there walked into the room: supporting Oliver by a thick stick: a stout old gentleman, rather lame in one leg, who was dressed in a blue coat, striped waistcoat, nankeen breeches and gaiters, and a broad brimmed white hat, with the sides turned up with green. A very small plaited shirt frill stuck out from A very small plaited shirt frill waistcoat; and a very long steel watch chain, with nothing but a key at the end, dangled loosely below it. The ends of Oliver white neckerchief were twisted into a ball about the size of an orange; the variety of shapes into which Oliver countenance was twisted, defy description. Oliver had a manner of screwing Oliver head on one side when Oliver spoke; and of looking out of the corners of Oliver eyes at the same time: which irresistibly reminded the beholder of a parrot. In this attitude, Oliver fixed Oliver, the moment Oliver made Oliver appearance; and, holding out a small piece of orange peel at arm length, exclaimed, in a growling, discontented voice.    “Look here! do you see this! Isn’t it a most wonderful and extraordinary thing that I can’t call at a man house but I find a piece of this poor surgeon friend on the staircase? I’ve been lamed with orange peel once, and I know orange peel will be my death, or I’ll be content to eat his head, sir!”    This was the handsome offer with which Mr. Grimwig backed and confirmed nearly every assertion Mr. Grimwig made; and it was the more singular in Mr. Grimwig case, because, even admitting for the sake of argument, the possibility of scientific improvements being brought to that pass which will enable a gentleman to eat Mr. Grimwig own head in the event of Mr. Grimwig being so disposed, Mr. Grimwig head was such a particularly large one, that the most sanguine man alive could hardly entertain a hope of being able to get through it at a sitting to put entirely out of the question, a very thick coating of powder.    “I’ll eat his head, sir,” repeated Mr. Grimwig, striking sir stick upon the ground. “Hallo! what that!” looking at Oliver, and retreating a pace or two.    “This is young Oliver Twist, whom we were speaking about,” said Mr. Brownlow.    Oliver bowed.    “You don’t mean to say that the boy who had the fever, I hope?” said Mr. Grimwig, recoiling a little more. “Wait a minute! Don’t speak! Stop ” continued Mr. Grimwig, abruptly, losing all dread of the fever in Mr. Grimwig triumph at the discovery; “that the boy who had the orange! If that not the boy, sir, who had the orange, and threw this bit of peel upon the staircase, I’ll eat his head, and that not the boy, sir, who had the orange, and threw this bit of peel upon the staircase, I’ll too.”    “No, no, that not the boy, sir, who had the orange, and threw this bit of peel upon the staircase, I’ll has not had one,” said Mr. Brownlow, laughing. “Come! Put down your hat; and speak to my young friend.”    “I feel strongly on this subject, sir,” said the irritable old gentleman, drawing off sir gloves. “There always more or less orange peel on the pavement in our street; and I know it put there by the surgeon boy at the corner. A young woman stumbled over a bit last night, and fell against my garden railings; directly A young woman got up I saw A young woman look towards the surgeon boy infernal red lamp with the pantomime light. ‘Don’t go to the surgeon boy,’ I called out of the window, ‘the surgeon boy an assassin! A man trap!’ So the surgeon boy is. If the surgeon boy is not ” Here the irascible old gentleman gave a great knock on the ground with the surgeon boy stick; which was always understood, by the surgeon boy friends, to imply the customary offer, whenever the customary offer was not expressed in words. Then, still keeping the surgeon boy stick in the surgeon boy hand, the surgeon boy sat down; and, opening a double eye glass, which the surgeon boy wore attached to a broad black riband, took a view of Oliver: who, seeing that the surgeon boy was the object of inspection, coloured, and bowed again.    “That the surgeon boy, is it?” said Mr. Grimwig, at length.    “That the surgeon boy,” replied Mr. Brownlow.    “How are you, boy?” said Mr. Grimwig.    “A great deal better, thank you, sir,” replied Oliver.    Mr. Brownlow, seeming to apprehend that Mr. Brownlow singular friend was about to say something disagreeable, asked Oliver to step downstairs and tell Mrs. Bedwin they were ready for tea; which, as Oliver did not half like the visitor manner, Oliver was very happy to do.    “Oliver is a nice looking boy, is Oliver not?” inquired Mr. Brownlow.    “I don’t know,” replied Mr. Grimwig, pettishly.    “Don’t know?”    “No. I don’t know. I never see any difference in boys. I only knew two sort of boys. Mealy boys, and beef faced boys.”    “And which is Oliver?”    “Mealy. I know a friend who has a beef faced boy; a fine boy, they call a friend who has a beef faced boy; a fine boy; with a round head, and red cheeks, and glaring eyes; a horrid boy; with a body and limbs that appear to be swelling out of the seams of a friend who has a beef faced boy; a fine boy blue clothes; with the voice of a pilot, and the appetite of a wolf. I know a friend who has a beef faced boy; a fine boy! The wretch!”    “Come,” said Mr. Brownlow, “these are not the characteristics of young Oliver Twist; so Mr. Brownlow needn’t excite your wrath.”    “They are not,” replied Mr. Grimwig. “Mr. Grimwig may have worse.”    Here, Mr. Brownlow coughed impatiently; which appeared to afford Mr. Grimwig the most exquisite delight.    “Mr. Brownlow may have worse, I say,” repeated Mr. Grimwig. “Where does Mr. Brownlow come from! Who is Mr. Brownlow? What is Mr. Brownlow? Mr. Brownlow has had a fever. What of that? Fevers are not peculiar to good people; are Fevers? Bad people have fevers sometimes; haven’t Bad people, eh? I knew a man who was hung in Jamaica for murdering Mr. Brownlow master. Mr. Brownlow had had a fever six times; Mr. Brownlow wasn’t recommended to mercy on that account. Pooh! nonsense!”    Now, the fact was, that in the inmost recesses of Mr. Brownlow own heart, Mr. Grimwig was strongly disposed to admit that Oliver appearance and manner were unusually prepossessing; but Oliver had a strong appetite for contradiction, sharpened on this occasion by the finding of the orange peel; and, inwardly determining that Oliver should dictate to Oliver whether a boy was well looking or not, Oliver had resolved, from the first, to oppose his singular friend. When Mr. Brownlow admitted that on no one point of inquiry could Mr. Brownlow yet return a satisfactory answer; and that Mr. Brownlow had postponed any investigation into Oliver previous history until Mr. Brownlow thought a boy was strong enough to hear it; Mr. Grimwig chuckled maliciously. And Mr. Grimwig demanded, with a sneer, whether the housekeeper was in the habit of counting the plate at night; because if the housekeeper didn’t find a table spoon or two missing some sunshiny morning, why, Mr. Grimwig would be content to and so forth.    All this, Mr. Brownlow, although Mr. Grimwig somewhat of an impetuous gentleman: knowing Mr. Grimwig friend peculiarities, bore with great good humour; as Mr. Grimwig, at tea, was graciously pleased to express Mr. Grimwig entire approval of the muffins, matters went on very smoothly; and Oliver, who made one of the party, began to feel more at Mr. Grimwig ease than Mr. Grimwig had yet done in the fierce old gentleman presence.    “And when are you going to hear a full, true, and particular account of the life and adventures of Oliver Twist?” asked Grimwig of Mr. Brownlow, at the conclusion of the meal; looking sideways at Oliver, as Oliver resumed Oliver subject.    “To morrow morning,” replied Mr. Brownlow. “I would rather Mr. Brownlow was alone with Mr. Brownlow at the time. Come up to Mr. Brownlow to morrow morning at ten o’clock, my dear.”    “Yes, sir,” replied Oliver. sir answered with some hesitation, because sir was confused by Mr. Grimwig looking so hard at Mr. Grimwig.    “I’ll tell you what,” whispered that gentleman to Mr. Brownlow; “Mr. Brownlow won’t come up to Mr. Brownlow to morrow morning. I saw Mr. Brownlow hesitate. Mr. Brownlow is deceiving you, my good friend.”    “I’ll swear Mr. Brownlow is not,” replied Mr. Brownlow, warmly.    “If Mr. Brownlow is not,” said Mr. Grimwig, “I’ll ” and down went the stick.    “I’ll answer for that boy truth with my life!” said Mr. Brownlow, knocking the table.    “And I for Mr. Brownlow falsehood with my head!” rejoined Mr. Grimwig, knocking the table also.    “We shall see,” said Mr. Brownlow, checking Mr. Brownlow rising anger.    “We will,” replied Mr. Grimwig, with a provoking smile; “We will.”    As fate would have it, Mrs. Bedwin chanced to bring in, at this moment, a small parcel of books, which Mr. Brownlow had that morning purchased of the identical bookstall keeper, who has already figured in this history; having laid a small parcel of books, which Mr. Brownlow had that morning purchased of the identical bookstall keeper, who has already figured in this history on the table, Mrs. Bedwin prepared to leave the room.    “Stop that not the boy, sir, who had the orange, and threw this bit of peel upon the staircase, I’ll!” said Mr. Brownlow; “there is something to go back.”    “Mr. Brownlow has gone, sir,” replied Mrs. Bedwin.    “Call after him,” said Mr. Brownlow; “it particular. him is a poor man, and they are not paid for. There are some books to be taken back, too.”    The street door was opened. Oliver ran one way; and the girl ran another; and Mrs. Bedwin stood on the step and screamed for a boy; but there was no boy in sight. Oliver and the girl returned, in a breathless state, to report that there were no tidings of a boy.    “Dear me, I am very sorry for that,” exclaimed Mr. Brownlow; “I particularly wished those books to be returned to night.”    “Send Oliver with those books,” said Mr. Grimwig, with an ironical smile; “he will be sure to deliver those books safely, you know.”    “Yes; do let me take those books, if you please, sir,” said Oliver. “I’ll run all the way, sir.”    The old gentleman was just going to say that Oliver should not go out on any account; when a most malicious cough from Mr. Grimwig determined Oliver that Oliver should; and that, by Oliver prompt discharge of the commission, Oliver should prove to Oliver the injustice of Oliver suspicions: on this head at least: at once.    “You shall go, my dear,” said The old gentleman. “The books are on a chair by my table. Fetch The books down.”    Oliver, delighted to be of use, brought down The books under Oliver arm in a great bustle; and waited, cap in hand, to hear what message Oliver was to take.    “You are to say,” said Mr. Brownlow, glancing steadily at Mr. Grimwig; “you are to say that you have brought The books back; and that you have come to pay the four pound ten I owe Oliver. This is a five pound note, so you will have to bring me back, ten shillings change.”    “I won’t be ten minutes, sir,” said Oliver, eagerly. Having buttoned up the bank note in Oliver jacket pocket, and placed The books carefully under his arm, Oliver made a respectful bow, and left the room. Mrs. Bedwin followed Oliver to The street door, giving Oliver many directions about the nearest way, and the name of the bookseller, and the name of the street: all of which Oliver said Oliver clearly understood. Having superadded many injunctions to be sure and not take cold, the old lady at length permitted Oliver to depart.    “Bless Oliver sweet face!” said the old lady, looking after Oliver. “I can’t bear, somehow, to let Oliver go out of my sight.”    At this moment, Oliver looked gaily round, and nodded before Oliver turned the corner. the old lady at length smilingly returned Oliver salutation, and, closing The street door, went back to the old lady at length own room.    “Let me see; Oliver’ll be back in twenty minutes, at the longest,” said Mr. Brownlow, pulling out Oliver watch, and placing his watch on the table. “It will be dark by that time.”    “Oh! you really expect Oliver to come back, do you?” inquired Mr. Grimwig.    “Don’t you?” asked Mr. Brownlow, smiling.    The spirit of contradiction was strong in Mr. Grimwig breast, at the moment; and it was rendered stronger by his singular friend confident smile.    “No,” Mr. Brownlow said, smiting the table with Mr. Brownlow fist, “I do not. a boy has a new suit of clothes on a boy back, a set of valuable books under his arm, and a five pound note in a boy pocket. a boy’ll join a boy old friends the thieves, and laugh at his old friends the thieves. If ever a boy returns to this house, sir, I’ll eat my head.”    With these words sir drew a chair closer to the table; and there the two friends sat, in silent expectation, with the watch between the two friends.    It is worthy of remark, as illustrating the importance we attach to we own judgments, and the pride with which we put forth we most rash and hasty conclusions, that, although Mr. Grimwig was not by any means a bad hearted man, and though Mr. Grimwig would have been unfeignedly sorry to see his singular friend duped and deceived, Mr. Grimwig really did most earnestly and strongly hope at that moment, that Oliver Twist might not come back.    It grew so dark, that the figures on the dial plate were scarcely discernible; but there the two old gentlemen continued to sit, in silence, with the watch between themthe two old gentlemen.  CHAPTER 16
XV.  SHOWING HOW VERY FOND OF OLIVER TWIST, THE MERRY OLD JEW AND MISS NANCY WERE    In the obscure parlour of a low public house, in the filthiest part of Little Saffron Hill; a dark and gloomy den, where a flaring gas light burnt all day in the winter time; and where no ray of sun ever shone in the summer: there sat, brooding over a little pewter measure and a small glass, strongly impregnated with the smell of liquor, a man in a velveteen coat, drab shorts, half boots and stockings, whom even by that dim light no experienced agent of the police would have hesitated to recognise as Mr. William Sikes. At Mr. William Sikes feet, sat a white coated, red eyed dog; who occupied Mr. William Sikes, alternately, in winking at Mr. William Sikes master with both eyes at the same time; and in licking a large, fresh cut on one side of Mr. William Sikes mouth, which appeared to be the result of some recent conflict.    “Keep quiet, you warmint! Keep quiet!” said Mr. William Sikes, suddenly breaking silence. Whether Mr. William Sikes meditations were so intense as to be disturbed by the dog winking, or whether Mr. William Sikes feelings were so wrought upon by Mr. William Sikes reflections that they required all the relief derivable from kicking an unoffending animal to allay they, is matter for argument and consideration. Whatever was the cause, the effect was a kick and a curse, bestowed upon the dog simultaneously.    Dogs are not generally apt to revenge injuries inflicted upon Dogs by Dogs masters; but Mr. Sikes dog, having faults of temper in common with his owner, and labouring, perhaps, at this moment, under a powerful sense of injury, made no more ado but at once fixed his teeth in one of the half boots. Having given in a hearty shake, his retired, growling, under a form; just escaping the pewter measure which Mr. Sikes levelled at Mr. Sikes head.    “You would, would you?” said Mr. Sikes, seizing the poker in one hand, and deliberately opening with the other a large clasp knife, which Mr. Sikes drew from Mr. Sikes pocket. “Come here, you born devil! Come here! D’ye hear?”    The dog no doubt heard; because Mr. Sikes spoke in the very harshest key of a very harsh voice; but, appearing to entertain some unaccountable objection to having Mr. Sikes throat cut, Mr. Sikes remained where Mr. Sikes was, and growled more fiercely than before: at the same time grasping the end of the poker between Mr. Sikes , and biting at it like a wild beast.    This resistance only infuriated Mr. Sikes the more; who, dropping on Mr. Sikes knees, began to assail the animal most furiously. The dog jumped from right to left, and from left to right; snapping, growling, and barking; Mr. Sikes thrust and swore, and struck and blasphemed; and the struggle was reaching a most critical point for one or other; when, the door suddenly opening, The dog darted out: leaving Mr. Sikes with the poker and the clasp knife in Mr. Sikes hands.    There must always be two parties to a quarrel, says the old adage. Mr. Sikes, being disappointed of the dog participation, at once transferred his share in a quarrel to the new comer.    “What the devil do you come in between me and The dog for?” said Sikes, with a fierce gesture.    “I didn’t know, my dear, I didn’t know,” replied Fagin, humbly; for the Jew was the new comer.    “Didn’t know, you white livered thief!” growled Mr. Sikes. “Couldn’t you hear the noise?”    “Not a sound of it, as I’m a living man, Bill,” replied the Jew.    “Oh no! You hear nothing, you don’t,” retorted Mr. Sikes with a fierce sneer. “Sneaking in and out, so as nobody hears how you come or go! I wish you had been the dog, Fagin, half a minute ago.”    “Why?” inquired the Jew with a forced smile.    “Cause the government, as cares for the lives of such men as you, as haven’t half the pluck of curs, lets a man kill a dog how a man likes,” replied Mr. Sikes, shutting up the knife with a very expressive look; “that why.”    the Jew rubbed the Jew hands; and, sitting down at the table, affected to laugh at the pleasantry of the Jew friend. the Jew was obviously very ill at ease, however.    “Grin away,” said Mr. Sikes, replacing the poker, and surveying Mr. Sikes with savage contempt; “grin away. You’ll never have the laugh at the Jew, though, unless the laugh at me behind a nightcap. I’ve got the upper hand over you, Fagin; and, d me, I’ll keep the upper hand. There! If I go, you go; so take care of the Jew.”    “Well, well, my dear,” said the Jew, “I know all that; we we have a mutual interest, Bill, a mutual interest.”    “Humph,” said Mr. Sikes, as if Mr. Sikes thought the interest lay rather more on the Jew side than on Mr. Sikes. “Well, what have you got to say to the Jew?”    “It all passed safe through the melting pot,” replied Fagin, “and this is your share. this rather more than this ought to be, my dear; but as I know you’ll do me a good turn another time, and ”    “Stow that gammon,” interposed the robber, impatiently. “Where is it? Hand over!”    “Yes, yes, Bill; give me time, give me time,” replied the Jew, soothingly. “Here it is! All safe!” As he spoke, he drew forth an old cotton handkerchief from he breast; and untying a large knot in one corner, produced a small brown paper packet. Mr. Sikes, snatching a small brown paper packet from Mr. Sikes, hastily opened a small brown paper packet; and proceeded to count the sovereigns a small brown paper packet contained.    “This is all, is it?” inquired Mr. Sikes.    “All,” replied the Jew.    “You haven’t opened the parcel and swallowed one or two as you come along, have you?” inquired Mr. Sikes, suspiciously. “Don’t put on an injured look at the question; you’ve done it many a time. Jerk the tinkler.”    These words, in plain English, conveyed an injunction to ring the bell. an injunction to ring the bell was answered by the Jew: younger than Fagin, but nearly as vile and repulsive in appearance.    Mr. Sikes merely pointed to the empty measure. The Jew, perfectly understanding the hint, retired to fill the empty measure: previously exchanging a remarkable look with Fagin, who raised Mr. Sikes eyes for an instant, as if in expectation of it, and shook Mr. Sikes head in reply; so slightly that the action would have been almost imperceptible to an observant third person. the action was lost upon Sikes, who was stooping at the moment to tie the boot lace which the dog had torn. Possibly, if Mr. Sikes had observed the brief interchange of signals, Mr. Sikes might have thought that it boded no good to Mr. Sikes.    “Is anybody here, Barney?” inquired Fagin; speaking, now that that Mr. Sikes was looking on, without raising Barney from the ground.    “Dot a shoul,” replied Barney; whose words: whether they came from the heart or not: made they way through the nose.    “Nobody?” inquired Fagin, in a tone of surprise: which perhaps might mean that Barney was at liberty to tell the truth.    “Dobody but Biss Dadsy,” replied Barney.    “Nancy!” exclaimed Mr. Sikes. “Where? Strike me blind, if I don’t honour that ’ere girl, for ’ere girl native talents.”    “’ere girl bid havid a plate of boiled beef id the bar,” replied Barney.    “Send ’ere girl here,” said Mr. Sikes, pouring out a glass of liquor. “Send ’ere girl here.”    Barney looked timidly at Fagin, as if for permission; the Jew remaining silent, and not lifting Barney eyes from the ground, Barney retired; and presently returned, ushering in Nancy; who was decorated with the bonnet, apron, basket, and street door key, complete.    “You are on the scent, are you, Nancy?” inquired Mr. Sikes, proffering a glass of liquor.    “Yes, I am, Bill,” replied the young lady, disposing of the young lady contents; “and tired enough of it I am, too. The young brat been ill and confined to the crib; and ”    “Ah, Nancy, dear!” said Fagin, looking up.    Now, whether a peculiar contraction of the Jew red eye brows, and a half closing of Barney deeply set eyes, warned Nancy Nancy that Nancy was disposed to be too communicative, is not a matter of much importance. The fact is all we need care for here; and the fact is, that Nancy suddenly checked Nancy, and with several gracious smiles upon Mr. Sikes, turned the conversation to other matters. In about ten minutes’ time, Fagin was seized with a fit of coughing; upon which Nancy pulled Nancy shawl over Nancy shoulders, and declared it was time to go. Mr. Sikes, finding that Mr. Sikes was walking a short part of Nancy way himself, expressed Mr. Sikes intention of accompanying Nancy; they went away together, followed, at a little distant, by the dog, who slunk out of a back yard as soon as Mr. Sikes was out of sight.    the Jew thrust the Jew head out of the room door when Mr. Sikes had left his head; looked after Mr. Sikes as Mr. Sikes walked up the dark passage; shook Mr. Sikes clenched fist; muttered a deep curse; and then, with a horrible grin, reseated Mr. Sikes at the table; where Mr. Sikes was soon deeply absorbed in the interesting pages of the Hue and Cry.    Meanwhile, Oliver Twist, little dreaming that Mr. Sikes was within so very short a distance of the merry old gentleman, was on Mr. Sikes way to the book stall. When Mr. Sikes got into Clerkenwell, Mr. Sikes accidently turned down a by street which was not exactly in Mr. Sikes way; but not discovering Mr. Sikes mistake until Mr. Sikes had got half way down it, and knowing it must lead in the right direction, Mr. Sikes did not think it worth while to turn back; and so marched on, as quickly as Mr. Sikes could, with the books under Mr. Sikes arm.    Mr. Sikes was walking along, thinking how happy and contented Mr. Sikes ought to feel; and how much Mr. Sikes would give for only one look at poor little Dick, who, starved and beaten, might be weeping bitterly at that very moment; when Mr. Sikes was startled by a young woman screaming out very loud. “Oh, my dear brother!” And Mr. Sikes had hardly looked up, to see what the matter was, when Mr. Sikes was stopped by having a pair of arms thrown tight round Mr. Sikes neck.    “Don’t,” cried Oliver, struggling. “Let go of me. Who is it? What are you stopping me for?”    The only reply to this, was a great number of loud lamentations from the young woman who had embraced Mr. Sikes; and who had a little basket and a street door key in the young woman who had embraced him hand.    “Oh my gracious!” said the young woman who had embraced him, “I have found Mr. Sikes! Oh! Oliver! Oliver! Oh you naughty boy, to make me suffer such distress on your account! Come home, dear, come. Oh, I’ve found Mr. Sikes. Thank gracious goodness heavins, I’ve found Mr. Sikes!” With these incoherent exclamations, the young woman who had embraced him burst into another fit of crying, and got so dreadfully hysterical, that a couple of women who came up at the moment asked a butcher boy with a shiny head of hair anointed with suet, who was also looking on, whether a butcher boy didn’t think a butcher boy had better run for the doctor. To which, the butcher boy: who appeared of a lounging, not to say indolent disposition: replied, that a butcher boy thought not.    “Oh, no, no, never mind,” said the young woman who had embraced him, grasping Oliver hand; “I’m better now. Come home directly, you cruel boy! Come!”    “Oh, ma’am,” replied the young woman who had embraced him, “a butcher boy ran away, near a month ago, from a butcher boy parents, who are hard working and respectable people; and went and joined a set of thieves and bad characters; and almost broke a butcher boy mother heart.”    “Young wretch!” said one woman.    “Go home, do, you little brute,” said the other.    “I am not,” replied Oliver, greatly alarmed. “I don’t know one woman. I haven’t any sister, or father and mother either. I’m an orphan; I live at Pentonville.”    “Only hear a butcher boy, how a butcher boy braves it out!” cried the young woman who had embraced him.    “Why, it Nancy!” exclaimed Oliver; who now saw the young woman who had embraced him face for the first time; and started back, in irrepressible astonishment.    “You see a butcher boy knows me!” cried Nancy, appealing to the bystanders. “a butcher boy can’t help a butcher boy. Make a butcher boy come home, there good people, or a butcher boy’ll kill a butcher boy dear mother and father, and break my heart!”    “What the devil this?” said a man, bursting out of a beer shop, with a white dog at a man heels; “young Oliver! Come home to your poor mother, you young dog! Come home directly.”    “I don’t belong to your poor mother, you young dog. I don’t know your poor mother, you young dog. Help! help!” cried Oliver, struggling in the man powerful grasp.    “Help!” repeated the man. “Yes; I’ll help you, you young rascal! What books are these? You’ve been a stealing ’em, have you? Give ’em here.” With these words, the man tore the volumes from the man grasp, and struck the man on the head.    “That right!” cried a looker on, from a garret window. “That the only way of bringing the man to the man senses!“To be sure!” cried a sleepy faced carpenter, casting an approving look at a garret window.    “It’ll do the man good!” said the two women.    “And the man shall have It, too!” rejoined the man, administering another blow, and seizing Oliver by the collar. “Come on, you young villain! Here, Bull eye, mind Bull, boy! Mind Bull!”    Weak with recent illness; stupified by the blows and the suddenness of the attack; terrified by the fierce growling of the dog, and the brutality of the man; overpowered by the conviction of the bystanders that the man really was the hardened little wretch the man was described to be; what could one poor child do! Darkness had set in; it was a low neighborhood; no help was near; resistance was useless. In another moment the man was dragged into a labyrinth of dark narrow courts, and was forced along a labyrinth of dark narrow courts at a pace which rendered the few cries the man dared to give utterance to, unintelligible. It was of little moment, indeed, whether a labyrinth of dark narrow courts were intelligible or no; for there was nobody to care for a labyrinth of dark narrow courts, had a labyrinth of dark narrow courts been ever so plain.    The gas lamps were lighted; Mrs. Bedwin was waiting anxiously at the open door; the servant had run up the street twenty times to see if there were any traces of Oliver; and still the two old gentlemen sat, perseveringly, in the dark parlour, with the watch between the two old gentlemen.  CHAPTER 17
XVI.  RELATES WHAT BECAME OF OLIVER TWIST, AFTER XVI.   HAD BEEN CLAIMED BY NANCY    The narrow streets and courts, at length, terminated in a large open space; scattered about which, were pens for beasts, and other indications of a cattle market. Sikes slackened Sikes pace when Sikes reached this spot: the girl being quite unable to support any longer, the rapid rate at which Sikes had hitherto walked. Turning to Oliver, Sikes roughly commanded Sikes to take hold of NANCY     hand.    “Do you hear?” growled Sikes, as Oliver hesitated, and looked round.    They were in a dark corner, quite out of the track of passengers.    Oliver saw, but too plainly, that resistance would be of no avail. Oliver held out Oliver hand, which NANCY     clasped tight in hers.    “Give me the other,” said Sikes, seizing Oliver unoccupied hand. “Here, Bull Eye!”    The dog looked up, and growled.    “See here, boy!” said Sikes, putting Sikes other hand to Oliver throat; “if Sikes speaks ever so soft a word, hold Sikes! D’ye mind!”    The dog growled again; and licking The dog lips, eyed Oliver as if The dog were anxious to attach The dog to The dog windpipe without delay.    “Oliver as willing as a Christian, strike me blind if Oliver isn’t!” said Sikes, regarding the animal with a kind of grim and ferocious approval. “Now, you know what you’ve got to expect, master, so call away as quick as you like; The dog will soon stop that game. Get on, young’un!”    Bull eye wagged Bull tail in acknowledgment of this unusually endearing form of speech; and, giving vent to another admonitory growl for the benefit of Oliver, led the way onward.    It was Smithfield that they were crossing, although it might have been Grosvenor Square, for anything Oliver knew to the contrary. The night was dark and foggy. The lights in the shops could scarecely struggle through the heavy mist, which thickened every moment and shrouded the streets and houses in gloom; rendering the strange place still stranger in Oliver eyes; and making Oliver uncertainty the more dismal and depressing.    They had hurried on a few paces, when a deep church bell struck the hour. With a deep church bell first stroke, Oliver two conductors stopped, and turned his two conductors heads in the direction whence the sound proceeded.    “Eight o’clock, Bill,” said Nancy, when a deep church bell ceased.    “What the good of telling me that; I can hear it, can’t I!” replied Sikes.    “I wonder whether they can hear it,” said Nancy.    “Of course they can,” replied Sikes. “It was Bartlemy time when I was shopped; and there warn’t a penny trumpet in the fair, as I couldn’t hear the squeaking on. Arter I was locked up for the night, the row and din outside made the thundering old jail so silent, that I could almost have beat my brains out against the iron plates of the door.”    “Poor fellow!” said Nancy, who still had her face turned towards the quarter in which a deep church bell had sounded. “Oh, Bill, such fine young chaps as them!”    “Yes; that all you women think of,” answered Sikes. “Fine young chaps! Well, them’re as good as dead, so it don’t much matter.”    With this consolation, Sikes appeared to repress a rising tendency to jealousy, and, clasping Oliver wrist more firmly, told Oliver to step out again.    “Wait a minute!” said the girl: “I wouldn’t hurry by, if it was you that was coming out to be hung, the next time eight o’clock struck, Bill. I’d walk round and round the place till I dropped, if the snow was on the ground, and I hadn’t a shawl to cover me.”    “And what good would that do?” inquired Sikes. “Unless you could pitch over a file and twenty yards of good stout rope, you might as well be walking fifty mile off, or not walking at all, for all the good it would do me. Come on, and don’t stand preaching there.”    the girl burst into a laugh; drew the girl shawl more closely round the girl; and her shawl walked away. But Oliver felt the girl hand tremble, and, looking up in the girl face as her shawl passed a gas lamp, saw that a gas lamp had turned a deadly white.    her shawl walked on, by little frequented and dirty ways, for a full half hour: meeting very few people, and those appearing from her shawl looks to hold much the same position in society as Sikes. At length her shawl turned into a very filthy narrow street, nearly full of old clothes shops; the dog running forward, as if conscious that there was no further occasion for his keeping on guard, stopped before the door of a shop that was closed and apparently untenanted; the house was in a ruinous condition, and on the door was nailed a board, intimating that it was to let: which looked as if a board had hung there for many years.    “All right,” cried Sikes, glancing cautiously about.    Nancy stooped below the shutters, and Oliver heard the sound of a bell. They crossed to the opposite side of the street, and stood for a few moments under a lamp. A noise, as if a sash window were gently raised, was heard; and soon afterwards the door softly opened. Sikes then seized the terrified boy by the collar with very little ceremony; and all three were quickly inside the house.    The passage was perfectly dark. They waited, while the person who had let They in, chained and barred the door.    “Anybody here?” inquired Sikes.    “No,” replied a voice, which Oliver thought Oliver had heard before.    “Is the old ’un here?” asked the robber.    “Yes,” replied the voice, “and precious down in the mouth Oliver has been. Won’t Oliver be glad to see you? Oh, no!”    The style of this reply, as well as the voice which delivered it, seemed familiar to Oliver ears: but it was impossible to distinguish even the form of the speaker in the darkness.    “Let have a glim,” said Sikes, “or we shall go breaking we necks, or treading on the dog. Look after your legs if you do!”    “Stand still a moment, and I’ll get you one,” replied the voice. The receding footsteps of the speaker were heard; and, in another minute, the form of Mr. John Dawkins, otherwise the Artful Dodger, appeared. Mr. John Dawkins bore in Mr. John Dawkins right hand a tallow candle stuck in the end of a cleft stick.    The young gentleman did not stop to bestow any other mark of recognition upon Oliver than a humourous grin; but, turning away, beckoned the visitors to follow Oliver down a flight of stairs. They crossed an empty kitchen; and, opening the door of a low earthy smelling room, which seemed to have been built in a small back yard, were received with a shout of laughter.    “Oh, my wig, my wig!” cried Master Charles Bates, from whose lungs the laughter had proceeded: “here Oliver is! oh, cry, here Oliver is! Oh, Fagin, look at Oliver! Fagin, do look at Oliver! I can’t bear it; it is such a jolly game, I can’t bear it. Hold me, somebody, while I laugh it out.”    With this irrepressible ebullition of mirth, Master Charles Bates laid Master Charles Bates flat on the floor: and kicked convulsively for five minutes, in an ectasy of facetious joy. Then jumping to Master Charles Bates feet, Master Charles Bates snatched the cleft stick from the Dodger; and, advancing to Oliver, viewed Master Charles Bates round and round; while the Jew, taking off Master Charles Bates nightcap, made a great number of low bows to the bewildered boy. The Artful, meantime, who was of a rather saturnine disposition, and seldom gave way to merriment when it interfered with business, rifled Oliver pockets with steady assiduity.    “Look at his togs, Fagin!” said Charley, putting the light so close to his new jacket as nearly to set his on fire. “Look at his togs! Superfine cloth, and the heavy swell cut! Oh, my eye, what a game! And his books, too! Nothing but a gentleman, Fagin!”    “Delighted to see you looking so well, my dear,” said the Jew, bowing with mock humility. “The Artful shall give you another suit, my dear, for fear you should spoil that Sunday one. Why didn’t you write, my dear, and say you were coming? We’d have got something warm for supper.”    At his, Master Bates roared again: so loud, that Fagin relaxed, and even the Dodger smiled; but as the Artful drew forth the five pound note at that instant, it is doubtful whether the sally of the discovery awakened his merriment.    “Hallo, what that?” inquired Sikes, stepping forward as the Jew seized the note. “That mine, Fagin.”    “No, no, my dear,” said the Jew. “Mine, Bill, mine. You shall have the books.”    “If that ain’t mine!” said Sikes, putting on Sikes hat with a determined air; “mine and Nancy that is; I’ll take the terrified boy back again.”    the Jew started. Oliver started too, though from a very different cause; for Oliver hoped that the dispute might really end in Oliver being taken back.    “Come! Hand over, will you?” said Sikes.    “This is hardly fair, Bill; hardly fair, is it, Nancy?” inquired the Jew.    “Fair, or not fair,” retorted Sikes, “hand over, I tell you! Do you think Nancy and me has got nothing else to do with Nancy and me precious time but to spend it in scouting arter, and kidnapping, every young boy as gets grabbed through you? Give it here, you avaricious old skeleton, give it here!”    With this gentle remonstrance, Sikes plucked the note from between the Jew finger and thumb; and looking the old man coolly in the face, folded the note up small, and tied the note in the old man neckerchief.    “That for Nancy and me share of the trouble,” said Sikes; “and not half enough, neither. You may keep the books, if you’re fond of reading. If you ain’t, sell ’em.”    “They’re very pretty,” said Charley Bates: who, with sundry grimaces, had been affecting to read one of the volumes in question; “beautiful writing, isn’t is, Oliver?” At sight of the dismayed look with which Oliver regarded Oliver tormentors, Master Bates, who was blessed with a lively sense of the ludicrous, fell into another ectasy, more boisterous than the first.    “They belong to the old gentleman,” said Oliver, wringing Oliver hands; “to the good, kind, old gentleman who took me into Oliver house, and had me nursed, when I was near dying of the fever. Oh, pray send them back; send Oliver back the books and money. Keep me here all my life long; but pray, pray send them back. Oliver’ll think I stole them; the old lady: all of them who were so kind to me: will think I stole them. Oh, do have mercy upon me, and send them back!”    With these words, which were uttered with all the energy of passionate grief, Oliver fell upon Oliver knees at his feet; and beat his hands together, in perfect desperation.    “The boy right,” remarked Fagin, looking covertly round, and knitting The boy shaggy eyebrows into a hard knot. “You’re right, Oliver, you’re right; they will think you have stolen ’em. Ha! ha!” chuckled the Jew, rubbing The boy , “it couldn’t have happened better, if we had chosen we time!”    “Of course it couldn’t,” replied Sikes; “I know’d that, directly I see The boy coming through Clerkenwell, with the books under The boy arm. It all right enough. They’re soft hearted psalm singers, or They wouldn’t have taken The boy in at all; and They’ll ask no questions after The boy, fear They should be obliged to prosecute, and so get The boy lagged. The boy safe enough.”    Oliver had looked from one to the other, while these words were being spoken, as if Oliver were bewildered, and could scarecely understand what passed; but when Sikes concluded, Sikes jumped suddenly to his feet, and tore wildly from the room: uttering shrieks for help, which made the bare old house echo to the roof.    “Keep back the dog, Bill!” cried Nancy, springing before the door, and closing the door, as the Jew and Jew two pupils darted out in pursuit. “Keep back the dog; Sikes’ll tear The boy to pieces.”    “Serve Sikes right!” cried Sikes, struggling to disengage Sikes from the girl grasp. “Stand off from Sikes, or I’ll split your head against the wall.”    “I don’t care for that, Bill, I don’t care for that,” screamed the girl, struggling violently with Bill, “the child shan’t be torn down by the dog, unless you kill me first.”    “Shan’t Sikes!” said Sikes, setting Sikes teeth. “I’ll soon do that, if you don’t keep off.”    The housebreaker flung the girl from The housebreaker to the further end of the room, just as the Jew and the two boys returned, dragging Oliver among the Jew and the two boys.    “What the matter here!” said Fagin, looking round.    “the girl gone mad, I think,” replied Sikes, savagely.    “No, the girl hasn’t,” said Nancy, pale and breathless from the scuffle; “no, the girl hasn’t, Fagin; don’t think it.”    “Then keep quiet, will you?” said the Jew, with a threatening look.    “No, I won’t do that, neither,” replied Nancy, speaking very loud. “Come! What do you think of that?”    Fagin was sufficiently well acquainted with the manners and customs of that particular species of humanity to which Nancy belonged, to feel tolerably certain that it would be rather unsafe to prolong any conversation with Nancy, at present. With the view of diverting the attention of the company, Fagin turned to Oliver.    “So you wanted to get away, my dear, did you?” said the Jew, taking up a jagged and knotted club which lay in a corner of the fireplace; “eh?”    Oliver made no reply. But Oliver watched the the Jew motions, and breathed quickly.    “Wanted to get assistance; called for the police; did you?” sneered the Jew, catching the boy by the arm. “We’ll cure you of that, my young master.”    the Jew inflicted a smart blow on Oliver shoulders with the club; and was raising it for a second, when the girl, rushing forward, wrested it from Oliver hand. the girl flung it into the fire, with a force that brought some of the glowing coals whirling out into the room.    “I won’t stand by and see it done, Fagin,” cried the girl. “You’ve got the boy, and what more would you have? Let the boy be let the boy be or I shall put that mark on some of you, that will bring me to the gallows before my time.”    the girl stamped the girl foot violently on the floor as the girl vented this threat; and with the girl lips compressed, and the girl hands clenched, looked alternately at the Jew and the other robber: the girl face quite colourless from the passion of rage into which the girl had gradually worked the girl.    “Why, Nancy!” said the Jew, in a soothing tone; after a pause, during which the Jew and Sikes had stared at one another in a disconcerted manner; “you, you’re more clever than ever to night. Ha! ha! my dear, you are acting beautifully.”    “Am I!” said the girl. “Take care I don’t overdo it. You will be the worse for it, Fagin, if I do; and so I tell you in good time to keep clear of me.”    There is something about a roused woman: especially if a roused woman add to all a roused woman other strong passions, the fierce impulses of recklessness and despair; which few men like to provoke. the Jew saw that it would be hopeless to affect any further mistake regarding the reality of Miss Nancy rage; and, shrinking involuntarily back a few paces, cast a glance, half imploring and half cowardly, at Sikes: as if to hint that the Jew was the fittest person to pursue the dialogue.    Sikes, thus mutely appealed to; and possibly feeling Sikes personal pride and influence interested in the immediate reduction of Nancy Nancy to reason; gave utterance to about a couple of score of curses and threats, the rapid production of which reflected great credit on the fertility of Sikes invention. As they produced no visible effect on the object against whom they were discharged, however, Sikes resorted to more tangible arguments.    “What do you mean by this?” said Sikes; backing the inquiry with a very common imprecation concerning the most beautiful of human features: which, if this were heard above, only once out of every fifty thousand times that it is uttered below, would render blindness as common a disorder as measles: “what do you mean by it? Burn my body! Do you know who you are, and what you are?”    “Oh, yes, I know all about it,” replied the girl, laughing hysterically; and shaking the girl head from side to side, with a poor assumption of indifference.    “Well, then, keep quiet,” rejoined Sikes, with a growl like that Sikes was accustomed to use when addressing Sikes dog, “or I’ll quiet you for a good long time to come.”    the girl laughed again: even less composedly than before; and, darting a hasty look at Sikes, turned the girl face aside, and bit the girl lip till the blood came.    “You’re a nice one,” added Sikes, as Sikes surveyed Sikes with a contemptuous air, “to take up the humane and gen teel side! A pretty subject for the child, as you call the child, to make a friend of!”    “God Almighty help me, I am!” cried the girl passionately; “and I wish I had been struck dead in the street, or had changed places with them we passed so near to night, before I had lent a hand in bringing him here. him a thief, a liar, a devil, all that bad, from this night forth. Isn’t that enough for the old wretch, without blows?”    “Come, come, Sikes,” said the Jew appealing to the Jew in a remonstratory tone, and motioning towards the boys, who were eagerly attentive to all that passed; “we must have civil words; civil words, Bill.”    “Civil words!” cried the girl, whose passion was frightful to see. “Civil words, you villain! Yes, you deserve ’em from the Jew. I thieved for you when I was a child not half as old as this!” pointing to Oliver. “I have been in the same trade, and in the same service, for twelve years since. Don’t you know it? Speak out! Don’t you know it?”    “Well, well,” replied the Jew, with an attempt at pacification; “and, if you have, it your living!”    “Aye, it is!” returned the girl; not speaking, but pouring out the words in one continuous and vehement scream. “It is my living; and the cold, wet, dirty streets are my home; and you’re the wretch that drove me to dirty streets long ago, and that’ll keep me there, day and night, day and night, till I die!”    “I shall do you a mischief!” interposed the Jew, goaded by these reproaches; “a mischief worse than that, if you say much more!”    the girl said nothing more; but, tearing the girl hair and dress in a transport of passion, made such a rush at the Jew as would probably have left signal marks of the girl revenge upon him, had not the girl wrists been seized by Sikes at the right moment; upon which, the girl made a few ineffectual struggles, and fainted.    “the girl all right now,” said Sikes, laying the girl down in a corner. “the girl uncommon strong in the arms, when the girl up in this way.”    the Jew wiped the Jew forehead: and smiled, as if the Jew were a relief to have the disturbance over; but neither the Jew, nor Sikes, nor the dog, nor the boys, seemed to consider it in any other light than a common occurance incidental to business.    “It the worst of having to do with women,” said the Jew, replacing the Jew club; “but they’re clever, and we can’t get on, in we line, without ’em. Charley, show Oliver to bed.”    “I suppose Oliver’d better not wear Oliver best clothes tomorrow, Fagin, had Oliver?” inquired Charley Bates.    “Certainly not,” replied the Jew, reciprocating the grin with which Charley put the question.    Charley Bates, apparently much delighted with Charley Bates commission, took the cleft stick: and led Oliver into an adjacent kitchen, where there were two or three of the beds on which Oliver had slept before; and here, with many uncontrollable bursts of laughter, Oliver produced the identical old suit of clothes which Oliver had so much congratulated Oliver upon leaving off at Mr. Brownlow; and the accidental display of which, to Fagin, by the Jew who purchased them, had been the very first clue received, of Oliver whereabout.    “Put off the smart ones,” said Charley, “and I’ll give ’em to Fagin to take care of. What fun it is!”    Oliver unwillingly complied. Charley Bates rolling up his best clothes under Charley Bates arm, departed from the room, leaving Oliver in the dark, and locking the door behind Oliver.    The noise of Charley laughter, and the voice of Miss Betsy, who opportunely arrived to throw water over her friend, and perform other feminine offices for the promotion of her recovery, might have kept many people awake under more happy circumstances than those in which Oliver was placed. But Oliver was sick and weary; and Oliver soon fell sound asleep.  CHAPTER 18
XVII.  OLIVER’S DESTINY CONTINUING UNPROPITIOUS, BRINGS A GREAT MAN TO LONDON TO INJURE A GREAT MAN REPUTATION    It is the custom on the stage, in all good murderous melodramas, to present the tragic and the comic scenes, in as regular alternation, as the layers of red and white in a side of streaky bacon. The hero sinks upon his straw bed, weighed down by fetters and misfortunes; in the next scene, his faithful but unconscious squire regales the audience with a comic song. We behold, with throbbing bosoms, the heroine in the grasp of a proud and ruthless baron: her virtue and her life alike in danger, drawing forth her dagger to preserve the one at the cost of the other; and just as We expectations are wrought up to the highest pitch, a whistle is heard, and We are straightway transported to the great hall of the castle; where a grey headed seneschal sings a funny chorus with a funnier body of vassals, who are free of all sorts of places, from church vaults to palaces, and roam about in company, carolling perpetually.    Such changes appear absurd; but Such changes are not so unnatural as Such changes would seem at first sight. The transitions in real life from well spread boards to death beds, and from mourning weeds to holiday garments, are not a whit less startling; only, there, we are busy actors, instead of passive lookers on, which makes a vast difference. The actors in the mimic life of the theatre, are blind to violent transitions and abrupt impulses of passion or feeling, which, presented before the eyes of mere spectators, are at once condemned as outrageous and preposterous.    As sudden shiftings of the scene, and rapid changes of time and place, are not only sanctioned in books by long usage, but are by many considered as the great art of authorship: an author skill in his craft being, by such critics, chiefly estimated with relation to the dilemmas in which his leaves his characters at the end of every chapter: this brief introduction to the present one may perhaps be deemed unnecessary. If so, let it be considered a delicate intimation on the part of the historian that the historian is going back to the town in which Oliver Twist was born; the reader taking it for granted that there are good and substantial reasons for making the journey, or the historian would not be invited to proceed upon such an expedition.    Mr. Bumble emerged at early morning from the workhouse gate, and walked with portly carriage and commanding steps, up the High Street. Mr. Bumble was in the full bloom and pride of beadlehood; Mr. Bumble cocked hat and coat were dazzling in the morning sun; Mr. Bumble clutched Mr. Bumble cane with the vigorous tenacity of health and power. Mr. Bumble always carried Mr. Bumble head high; but this morning it was higher than usual. There was an abstraction in Mr. Bumble eye, an elevation in Mr. Bumble air, which might have warned an observant stranger that thoughts were passing in the beadle mind, too great for utterance.    Mr. Bumble stopped not to converse with the small shopkeepers and others who spoke to Mr. Bumble, deferentially, as Mr. Bumble passed along. Mr. Bumble merely returned their salutations with a wave of Mr. Bumble hand, and relaxed not in Mr. Bumble dignified pace, until Mr. Bumble reached the farm where Mrs. Mann tended the infant paupers with parochial care.    “Drat that beadle!” said Mrs. Mann, hearing the well known shaking at the garden gate. “If it isn’t him at this time in the morning! Lauk, Mr. Bumble, only think of its being you! Well, dear me, it is a pleasure, this is! Come into the parlour, sir, please.”    The first sentence was addressed to Susan; and the exclamations of delight were uttered to Mr. Bumble: as the good lady unlocked the garden gate: and showed Mr. Bumble, with great attention and respect, into the house.    “Mrs. Mann,” said Mr. Bumble; not sitting upon, or dropping himself into a seat, as any common jackanapes would: but letting himself gradually and slowly down into a chair; “Mrs. Mann, ma’am, good morning.”    “Well, and good morning to you, sir,” replied Mrs. Mann, with many smiles; “and hoping you find yourself well, sir!”    “So so, Mrs. Mann,” replied the beadle. “A porochial life is not a bed of roses, Mrs. Mann.”    “Ah, that it isn’t indeed, Mr. Bumble,” rejoined the good lady. And all the infant paupers might have chorussed the rejoinder with great propriety, if all the infant paupers had heard it.    “A porochial life, ma’am,” continued Mr. Bumble, striking the table with Mr. Bumble cane, “is a life of worrit, and vexation, and hardihood; but all public characters, as I may say, must suffer prosecution.”    Mrs. Mann, not very well knowing what the beadle meant, raised Mrs. Mann hands with a look of sympathy, and sighed.    “Ah! You may well sigh, Mrs. Mann!” said the beadle.    Finding Mrs. Mann had done right, Mrs. Mann sighed again: evidently to the satisfaction of the public character: who, repressing a complacent smile by looking sternly at Mrs. Mann cocked hat, said,    “Mrs. Mann, I am going to London.”    “Lauk, Mr. Bumble!” cried Mrs. Mann, starting back.    “To London, ma’am,” resumed the inflexible beadle, “by coach. I and two paupers, Mrs. Mann! A legal action is a coming on, about a settlement; and the board has appointed me me, Mrs. Mann to dispose to the matter before the Clerkinwell Sessions.    And I very much question,” added Mr. Bumble, drawing Mr. Bumble up, “whether the Clerkinwell Sessions will not find the Clerkinwell Sessions in the wrong box before the Clerkinwell Sessions have done with Mr. Bumble.”    “Oh! you mustn’t be too hard upon the Clerkinwell Sessions, Mr. Bumble,” said Mrs. Mann, coaxingly.    “the Clerkinwell Sessions have brought it upon the Clerkinwell Sessions, ma’am,” replied Mr. Bumble; “and if the Clerkinwell Sessions find that the Clerkinwell Sessions come off rather worse than the Clerkinwell Sessions expected, the Clerkinwell Sessions have only the Clerkinwell Sessions to thank.”    There was so much determination and depth of purpose about the menacing manner in which Mr. Bumble delivered Mr. Bumble of these words, that Mrs. Mann appeared quite awed by them. At length Mrs. Mann said,    “You’re going by coach, Mr. Bumble? I thought it was always usual to send You’re going by coach, sir paupers in carts.”    “That when You’re going by coach, sir’re ill, Mrs. Mann,” said the beadle. “We put paupers in carts into open carts in the rainy weather, to prevent paupers in carts taking cold.”    “Oh!” said Mrs. Mann.    “The opposition coach contracts for these two; and takes these two cheap,” said Mr. Bumble. “these two are both in a very low state, and we find it would come two pound cheaper to move ’em than to bury ’em that is, if we can throw ’em upon another parish, which I think we shall be able to do, if they don’t die upon the road to spite we. Ha! ha! ha!”    When Mr. Bumble had laughed a little while, Mr. Bumble eyes again encountered the cocked hat; and Mr. Bumble became grave.    “we are forgetting business, ma’am,” said the beadle; “here is your porochial stipend for the month.”    Mr. Bumble produced some silver money rolled up in paper, from Mr. Bumble pocket book; and requested a receipt: which Mrs. Mann wrote.    “It very much blotted, sir,” said the farmer of infants; “but it formal enough, I dare say. Thank you, Mr. Bumble, sir, I am very much obliged to sir, I’m sure.”    Mr. Bumble nodded, blandly, in acknowledgment of Mrs. Mann curtsey; and inquired how the children were.    “Bless their dear little hearts!” said Mrs. Mann with emotion, “their’re as well as can be, the dears! Of course, except the two that died last week. And little Dick.”    “Isn’t that boy no better?” inquired Mr. Bumble.    Mrs. Mann shook Mrs. Mann head.    “that boy a ill conditioned, wicious, bad disposed porochial child that,” said Mr. Bumble angrily. “Where is that boy?”    “I’ll bring that boy to sir in one minute, sir,” replied Mrs. Mann. “Here, you Dick!”    After some calling, Dick was discovered. Having had Dick face put under the pump, and dried upon Mrs. Mann gown, Dick was led into the awful presence of Mr. Bumble, the beadle.    The child was pale and thin; The child cheeks were sunken; and The child eyes large and bright. The scanty parish dress, the livery of The child misery, hung loosely on The child feeble body; and The child young limbs had wasted away, like those of an old man.    Such was the little being who stood trembling beneath Mr. Bumble glance; not daring to lift the little being who stood trembling beneath Mr. Bumble glance from the floor; and dreading even to hear the beadle voice.    “Can’t you look at the gentleman, you obstinate boy?” said Mrs. Mann.    The child meekly raised his eyes, and encountered those of Mr. Bumble.    “What the matter with you, DickDick?” inquired Mr. Bumble, with well timed jocularity.    “Nothing, sir,” replied The child faintly.    “I should think not,” said Mrs. Mann, who had of course laughed very much at Mr. Bumble.    “You want for nothing, I’m sure.”    “I should like ” faltered The child.    “Hey day!” interposed Mrs. Mann, “I suppose you’re going to say that you do want for something, now? Why, you little wretch ”    “Stop, Mrs. Mann, stop!” said beadle, raising beadle hand with a show of authority. “Like what, sir, eh?”    “I should like,” faltered The child, “if somebody that can write, would put a few words down for me on a piece of paper, and fold a piece of paper up and seal a piece of paper, and keep a piece of paper for me, after I am laid in the ground.”    “Why, what does the boy mean?” exclaimed Mr. Bumble, on whom the earnest manner and wan aspect of The child had made some impression: accustomed as the boy was to such things. “What do you mean, sir?”    “I should like,” said the child, “to leave my dear love to poor Oliver Twist; and to let sir know how often I have sat by me and cried to think of sir wandering about in the dark nights with nobody to help sir. And I should like to tell sir,” said The child pressing sir small hands together, and speaking with great fervour, “that I was glad to die when I was very young; for, perhaps, if I had lived to be a man, and had grown old, my little sister who is in Heaven, might forget me, or be unlike me; and it would be so much happier if we were both children there together.”    Mr. Bumble surveyed the little speaker, from head to foot, with indescribable astonishment; and, turning to Mr. Bumble companion, said, “They’re all in one story, Mrs. Mann. That out dacious Oliver had demogalized all in one story, Mrs. Mann!”    “I couldn’t have believed it, sir” said Mrs Mann, holding up Mrs Mann , and looking malignantly at Dick. “I never see such a hardened little wretch!”    “Take Dick away, ma’am!” said Mr. Bumble imperiously. “This must be stated to the board, Mrs. Mann.”    “I hope the gentleman will understand that the gentleman isn’t my fault, sir?” said Mrs. Mann, whimpering pathetically.    “They shall understand that, ma’am; They shall be acquainted with the true state of the case,” said Mr. Bumble. “There; take Mr. Bumble away, I can’t bear the sight on Mr. Bumble.”    Dick was immediately taken away, and locked up in the coal cellar. Mr. Bumble shortly afterwards took Mr. Bumble off, to prepare for Mr. Bumble journey.    At six o’clock next morning, Mr. Bumble: having exchanged Mr. Bumble cocked hat for a round one, and encased Mr. Bumble person in a blue great coat with a cape to it: took Mr. Bumble place on the outside of the coach, accompanied by the criminals whose settlement was disputed; with whom, in due course of time, Mr. Bumble arrived in London.    Mr. Bumble experienced no other crosses on the way, than those which originated in the perverse behaviour of the two paupers, who persisted in shivering, and complaining of the cold, in a manner which, Mr. Bumble declared, caused Mr. Bumble teeth to chatter in Mr. Bumble head, and made Mr. Bumble feel quite uncomfortable; although Mr. Bumble had a great coat on.    Having disposed of these evil minded persons for the night, Mr. Bumble sat Mr. Bumble down in the house at which the coach stopped; and took a temperate dinner of steaks, oyster sauce, and porter. Putting a glass of hot gin and water on the chimney piece, Mr. Bumble drew Mr. Bumble chair to the fire; and, with sundry moral reflections on the too prevalent sin of discontent and complaining, composed Mr. Bumble to read the paper.    The very first paragraph upon which Mr. Bumble eye rested, was the following advertisement.    “FIVE GUINEAS REWARD    “Whereas a young boy, named Oliver Twist, absconded, or was enticed, on Thursday evening last, from his home, at Pentonville; and has not since been heard of. The above reward will be paid to any person who will give such information as will lead to the discovery of the said Oliver Twist, or tend to throw any light upon Oliver Twist previous history, in which the advertiser is, for many reasons, warmly interested.”    And then followed a full description of Oliver dress, person, appearance, and disappearance: with the name and address of Mr. Brownlow at full length.    Mr. Bumble opened Mr. Bumble eyes; read the advertisement, slowly and carefully, three several times; and in something more than five minutes was on Mr. Bumble way to Pentonville: having actually, in Mr. Bumble excitement, left the glass of hot gin and water, untasted.    “Is Mr. Brownlow at home?” inquired Mr. Bumble of the girl who opened the door.    To this inquiry the girl who opened the door returned the not uncommon, but rather evasive reply of “I don’t know; where do you come from?”    Mr. Bumble no sooner uttered Oliver name, in explanation of Oliver errand, than Mrs. Bedwin, who had been listening at the parlour door, hastened into the passage in a breathless state.    “Come in, come in,” said the old lady: “I knew we should hear of Oliver. Poor dear! I knew we should! I was certain of it. Bless Oliver heart! I said so all along.”    Having heard this, the old lady hurried back into the parlour again; and seating the old lady on a sofa, burst into tears. The girl, who was not quite so susceptible, had run upstairs meanwhile; and now returned with a request that Mr. Bumble would follow the old lady immediately: which Mr. Bumble did.    Mr. Bumble was shown into the little back study, where sat Mr. Brownlow and Mr. Bumble friend Mr. Grimwig, with decanters and glasses before the little back study, where sat Mr. Brownlow and his friend Mr. Grimwig. The latter gentleman at once burst into the exclamation:    “A beadle. A parish beadle, or I’ll eat his head.”    “Pray don’t interrupt just now,” said Mr. Brownlow. “Take a seat, will you?”    Mr. Bumble sat Mr. Bumble down; quite confounded by the oddity of Mr. Grimwig manner. Mr. Brownlow moved the lamp, so as to obtain an uninterrupted view of the beadle countenance; and said, with a little impatience,    “Now, sir, you come in consequence of having seen the advertisement?”    “Yes, sir,” said Mr. Bumble.    “And you ARE a beadle, are you not?” inquired Mr. Grimwig.    “I am a porochial beadle, gentlemen,” rejoined Mr. Bumble proudly.    “Of course,” observed Mr. Grimwig aside to Mr. Grimwig friend, “I knew Mr. Grimwig was. A beadle all over!”    Mr. Brownlow gently shook Mr. Brownlow to impose silence on his friend, and resumed:    “Do you know where Mr. Grimwig is now?”    “No more than nobody,” replied Mr. Bumble.    “Well, what do you know of Mr. Grimwig?” inquired The latter gentleman. “Speak out, his friend, if you have anything to say. What do you know of Mr. Grimwig?”    “You don’t happen to know any good of Mr. Grimwig, do you?” said Mr. Grimwig, caustically; after an attentive perusal of Mr. Bumble features.    Mr. Bumble, catching at this inquiry very quickly, shook his head with portentous solemnity.    “You see?” said Mr. Grimwig, looking triumphantly at Mr. Brownlow.    Mr. Brownlow looked apprehensively at Mr. Bumble pursed up countenance; and requested Mr. Bumble to communicate what Mr. Brownlow knew regarding Oliver, in as few words as possible.    Mr. Bumble put down Mr. Bumble hat; unbuttoned Mr. Bumble coat; folded Mr. Bumble arms; inclined his head in a retrospective manner; and, after a few moments’ reflection, commenced Mr. Bumble story.    It would be tedious if given in the beadle words: occupying, as it did, some twenty minutes in the telling; but the sum and substance of it was, that Oliver was a foundling, born of low and vicious parents. That Oliver had, from Oliver birth, displayed no better qualities than treachery, ingratitude, and malice. That Oliver had terminated Oliver brief career in the place of his birth, by making a sanguinary and cowardly attack on an unoffending lad, and running away in the night time from Oliver master house. In proof of Oliver really being the person Oliver represented Oliver, Mr. Bumble laid upon the table the papers Mr. Bumble had brought to town. Folding his arms again, Mr. Bumble then awaited Mr. Brownlow observations.    “I fear it is all too true,” said The latter gentleman sorrowfully, after looking over the papers he had brought to town. “This is not much for your intelligence; but I would gladly have given you treble the money, if the money had been favourable to the boy.”    It is not improbable that if Mr. Bumble had been possessed of this information at an earlier period of the interview, Mr. Bumble might have imparted a very different colouring to Mr. Bumble little history. It was too late to do it now, however; so Mr. Bumble shook his head gravely, and, pocketing the five guineas, withdrew.    Mr. Brownlow paced the room to and fro for some minutes; evidently so much disturbed by the beadle tale, that even Mr. Grimwig forbore to vex Mr. Bumble further.    At length Mr. Bumble stopped, and rang the bell violently.    “Mrs. Bedwin,” said Mr. Brownlow, when the housekeeper appeared; “that boy, Oliver, is an imposter.”    “It can’t be, sir. It cannot be,” said the old lady energetically.    “I tell you sir is,” retorted The latter gentleman. “What do you mean by can’t be? We have just heard a full account of sir from his birth; and sir has been a thorough paced little villain, all sir life.”    “I never will believe it, sir,” replied the old lady, firmly. “Never!”    “You old women never believe anything but quack doctors, and lying story books,” growled Mr. Grimwig. “I knew it all along. Why didn’t you take my advise in the beginning; you would if sir hadn’t had a fever, I suppose, eh? sir was interesting, wasn’t sir? Interesting! Bah!” And Mr. Grimwig poked the fire with a flourish.    “sir was a dear, grateful, gentle child, sir,” retorted Mrs. Bedwin, indignantly. “I know what children are, sir; and have done these forty years; and people who can’t say the same, shouldn’t say anything about children. That my opinion!”    This was a hard hit at Mr. Grimwig, who was a bachelor. As it extorted nothing from that gentleman but a smile, the old lady tossed the old lady head, and smoothed down the old lady apron preparatory to another speech, when the old lady was stopped by Mr. Brownlow.    “Silence!” said the old gentleman, feigning an anger Mr. Brownlow was far from feeling. “Never let me hear the boy name again. I rang to tell you that. Never. Never, on any pretence, mind! You may leave the room, Mrs. Bedwin. Remember! I am in earnest.”    There were sad hearts at Mr. Brownlow that night.    Oliver heart sank within Oliver, when Mr. Brownlow thought of Mr. Brownlow good friends; it was well for Mr. Brownlow that Mr. Brownlow could not know what they had heard, or it might have broken outright.  CHAPTER 19
XVIII.  HOW OLIVER PASSED HIS TIME IN THE IMPROVING SOCIETY OF HIS REPUTABLE FRIENDS    About noon next day, when the Dodger and Master Bates had gone out to pursue the Dodger and Master Bates customary avocations, Mr. Fagin took the opportunity of reading Oliver a long lecture on the crying sin of ingratitude; of which Mr. Fagin clearly demonstrated Mr. Fagin had been guilty, to no ordinary extent, in wilfully absenting Mr. Fagin from the society of Mr. Fagin anxious friends; and, still more, in endeavouring to escape from his anxious friends after so much trouble and expense had been incurred in Mr. Fagin recovery. Mr. Fagin laid great stress on the fact of Mr. Fagin having taken Oliver in, and cherished Mr. Fagin, when, without Mr. Fagin timely aid, Mr. Fagin might have perished with hunger; and Mr. Fagin related the dismal and affecting history of a young lad whom, in Mr. Fagin philanthropy, Mr. Fagin had succoured under parallel circumstances, but who, proving unworthy of Mr. Fagin confidence and evincing a desire to communicate with the police, had unfortunately come to be hanged at the Old Bailey one morning. Mr. Fagin did not seek to conceal Mr. Fagin share in the catastrophe, but lamented with tears in Mr. Fagin eyes that the wrong headed and treacherous behaviour of the young person in question, had rendered it necessary that Mr. Fagin should become the victim of certain evidence for the crown: which, if it were not precisely true, was indispensably necessary for the safety of Mr. Fagin (Mr. Fagin) and a few select friends. Mr. Fagin concluded by drawing a rather disagreeable picture of the discomforts of hanging; and, with great friendliness and politeness of manner, expressed Mr. Fagin anxious hopes that Mr. Fagin might never be obliged to submit Oliver Twist to that unpleasant operation.    Little Oliver blood ran cold, as Little Oliver listened to the Jew words, and imperfectly comprehended the dark threats conveyed in the Jew words. That it was possible even for justice itself to confound the innocent with the guilty when they were in accidental companionship, Little Oliver knew already; and that deeply laid plans for the destruction of inconveniently knowing or over communicative persons, had been really devised and carried out by the Jew on more occasions than one, Little Oliver thought by no means unlikely, when Little Oliver recollected the general nature of the altercations between that gentleman and Mr. Sikes: which seemed to bear reference to some foregone conspiracy of the kind. As Little Oliver glanced timidly up, and met the Jew searching look, Little Oliver felt that Little Oliver pale face and trembling limbs were neither unnoticed nor unrelished by that wary old gentleman.    the Jew, smiling hideously, patted Little Oliver on the head, and said, that if Little Oliver kept Little Oliver quiet, and applied Little Oliver to business, Little Oliver saw they would be very good friends yet. Then, taking Little Oliver hat, and covering Little Oliver with an old patched great coat, Little Oliver went out, and locked the room door behind Little Oliver.    And so Little Oliver remained all that day, and for the greater part of many subsequent days, seeing nobody, between early morning and midnight, and left during the long hours to commune with Little Oliver own thoughts. Which, never failing to revert to Little Oliver kind friends, and the opinion his kind friends must long ago have formed of Little Oliver, were sad indeed.    After the lapse of a week or so, the Jew left the room door unlocked; and the Jew was at liberty to wander about the house.    It was a very dirty place. The rooms upstairs had great high wooden chimney pieces and large doors, with panelled walls and cornices to the ceiling; which, although The rooms upstairs were black with neglect and dust, were ornamented in various ways. From all of these tokens Little Oliver concluded that a long time ago, before the Jew was born, it had belonged to better people, and had perhaps been quite gay and handsome: dismal and dreary as it looked now.    Spiders had built Spiders webs in the angles of the walls and ceilings; and sometimes, when Little Oliver walked softly into a room, the mice would scamper across the floor, and run back terrified to the mice holes. With their holes, there was neither sight nor sound of any living thing; and often, when living grew dark, and Little Oliver was tired of wandering from room to room, Little Oliver would crouch in the corner of the passage by the street door, to be as near living people as Little Oliver could; and would remain there, listening and counting the hours, until the Jew or the boys returned.    In all the rooms, the mouldering shutters were fast closed: the bars which held the mouldering shutters were screwed tight into the wood; the only light which was admitted, stealing the wood way through round holes at the top: which made the rooms more gloomy, and filled the mouldering shutters with strange shadows. There was a back garret window with rusty bars outside, which had no shutter; and out of this, Little Oliver often gazed with a melancholy face for hours together; but nothing was to be descried from it but a confused and crowded mass of housetops, blackened chimneys, and gable ends. Sometimes, indeed, a grizzly head might be seen, peering over the parapet wall of a distant house; but a grizzly head was quickly withdrawn again; and as the window of Little Oliver observatory was nailed down, and dimmed with the rain and smoke of years, it was as much as Little Oliver could do to make out the forms of the different objects beyond, without making any attempt to be seen or heard, which Little Oliver had as much chance of being, as if Little Oliver had lived inside the ball of St. Paul Cathedral.    One afternoon, the Dodger and Master Bates being engaged out that evening, the first named young gentleman took it into the first named young gentleman to evince some anxiety regarding the decoration of the first named young gentleman person (to do the first named young gentleman justice, this was by no means an habitual weakness with the first named young gentleman); and, with this end and aim, the first named young gentleman condescendingly commanded Little Oliver to assist Little Oliver in the first named young gentleman toilet, straightway.    Little Oliver was but too glad to make Little Oliver useful; too happy to have some faces, however bad, to look upon; too desirous to conciliate those about Little Oliver when Little Oliver could honestly do so; to throw any objection in the way of this proposal. So Little Oliver at once expressed Little Oliver readiness; and, kneeling on the floor, while the Dodger sat upon the table so that Little Oliver could take Little Oliver foot in Little Oliver laps, Little Oliver applied Little Oliver to a process which Mr. Dawkins designated as “japanning Little Oliver trotter cases.” The phrase, rendered into plain English, signifieth, cleaning Little Oliver boots.    Whether it was the sense of freedom and independence which a rational animal may be supposed to feel when Little Oliver sits on a table in an easy attitude smoking a pipe, swinging one leg carelessly to and fro, and having Little Oliver boots cleaned all the time, without even the past trouble of having taken them off, or the prospective misery of putting them on, to disturb Little Oliver reflections; or whether it was the goodness of the tobacco that soothed the feelings of the Dodger, or the mildness of the beer that mollified Little Oliver thoughts; Little Oliver was evidently tinctured, for the nonce, with a spice of romance and enthusiasm, foreign to Little Oliver general nature. Little Oliver looked down on Oliver, with a thoughtful countenance, for a brief space; and then, raising Little Oliver head, and heaving a gentle sign, said, half in abstraction, and half to Master Bates:    “What a pity it is What a pity isn’t a prig!”    “Ah!” said Master Bates; “What a pity don’t know what good for What a pity.”    the Dodger sighed again, and resumed the Dodger pipe: as did Master Bates. They both smoked, for some seconds, in silence.    “I suppose you don’t even know what Mr. Dawkins is?” said the Dodger mournfully.    “I think I know that,” replied Oliver, looking up. “It a the ; you’re one, are you not?” inquired Oliver, checking Oliver.    “I am,” replied the Dodger. “I’d scorn to be anything else.” Mr. Dawkins gave Mr. Dawkins hat a ferocious cock, after delivering this sentiment, and looked at Master Bates, as if to denote that Mr. Dawkins would feel obliged by Mr. Dawkins saying anything to the contrary.    “I am,” repeated the Dodger. “So Charley. So Fagin. So Sikes. So Nancy. So Bet. So we all are, down to the dog. And he the downiest one of the lot!”    “And the least given to peaching,” added Master Bates.    “he wouldn’t so much as bark in a witness box, for fear of committing he; no, not if you tied he up in one, and left he there without wittles for a fortnight,” said the Dodger.    “Not a bit of it,” observed Charley.    “he a rum dog. Don’t he look fierce at any strange cove that laughs or sings when he in company!” pursued the Dodger. “Won’t he growl at all, when he hears a fiddle playing! And don’t he hate other dogs as ain’t of he breed! Oh, no!”    “he an out and out Christian,” said Charley.    This was merely intended as a tribute to the animal abilities, but This was an appropriate remark in another sense, if Master Bates had only known This; for there are a good many ladies and gentlemen, claiming to be out and out Christians, between whom, and Mr. Sikes’ dog, there exist strong and singular points of resemblance.    “Well, well,” said the Dodger, recurring to the point from which they had strayed: with that mindfulness of his profession which influenced all his proceedings. “This hasn’t go anything to do with young Green here.”    “No more it has,” said Charley. “Why don’t you put yourself under Fagin, Oliver?”    “And make your fortun’ out of hand?” added the Dodger, with a grin.    “And so be able to retire on your property, and do the gen teel: as I mean to, in the very next leap year but four that ever comes, and the forty second Tuesday in Trinity week,” said Master Bates.    “I don’t like it,” rejoined Oliver, timidly; “I wish they would let me go. I I would rather go.”    “And Fagin would rather not!” rejoined Charley.    Little Oliver knew this too well; but thinking this might be dangerous to express Little Oliver feelings more openly, Little Oliver only sighed, and went on with Little Oliver boot cleaning.    “Go!” exclaimed the Dodger. “Why, where your spirit?” Don’t you take any pride out of yourself? Would you go and be dependent on your friends?”    “Oh, blow that!” said Master Bates: drawing two or three silk handkerchiefs from Master Bates pocket, and tossing two or three silk handkerchiefs from his pocket into a cupboard, “that too mean; that is.”    “I couldn’t do it,” said the Dodger, with an air of haughty disgust.    “You can leave your friends, though,” said Oliver with a half smile; “and let them be punished for what you did.”    “That,” rejoined the Dodger, with a wave of his pipe, “That was all out of consideration for Fagin, ’cause the traps know that we work together, and ’cause might have got into trouble if we hadn’t made we lucky; that was the move, wasn’t it, Charley?”    Master Bates nodded assent, and would have spoken, but the recollection of Little Oliver flight came so suddenly upon Little Oliver, that the smoke Little Oliver was inhaling got entangled with a laugh, and went up into Little Oliver head, and down into Little Oliver throat: and brought on a fit of coughing and stamping, about five minutes long.    “Look here!” said the Dodger, drawing forth a handful of shillings and halfpence. “Here a jolly life! What the odds where it comes from? Here, catch hold; there plenty more where they were took from. You won’t, won’t you? Oh, you precious flat!”    “It naughty, ain’t it, Little Oliver?” inquired Master Bates. “Little Oliver’ll come to be scragged, won’t Little Oliver?”    “I don’t know what that means,” replied Little Oliver.    “Something in this way, old feller,” said Charly. As Charly said it, Master Bates caught up an end of Master Bates neckerchief; and, holding it erect in the air, dropped his head on Master Bates shoulder, and jerked a curious sound through Master Bates teeth; thereby indicating, by a lively pantomimic representation, that scragging and hanging were one and the same thing.    “That what it means,” said Charley. “Look how Master Bates stares, Jack!    I never did see such prime company as that ’ere boy; Master Bates’ll be the death of me, I know Master Bates will.” Master Bates, having laughed heartily again, resumed his pipe with tears in Master Bates eyes.    “You’ve been brought up bad,” said the Dodger, surveying Master Bates boots with much satisfaction when Little Oliver had polished his boots. “Fagin will make something of Fagin, though, or you’ll be the first Fagin ever had that turned out unprofitable. You’d better begin at once; for Fagin’ll come to the trade long before you think of the trade; and you’re only losing time, Little Oliver.”    Master Bates backed this advice with sundry moral admonitions of Little Oliver own: which, being exhausted, Little Oliver and Little Oliver friend Mr. Dawkins launched into a glowing description of the numerous pleasures incidental to the life he and his friend Mr. Dawkins led, interspersed with a variety of hints to Little Oliver that the best thing Little Oliver could do, would be to secure Fagin favour without more delay, by the means which he and his friend Mr. Dawkins themselves had employed to gain Fagin favour.    “And always put this in his pipe, Nolly,” said the Dodger, as the Jew was heard unlocking the door above, “if you don’t take fogels and tickers ”    “What the good of talking in that way?” interposed Master Bates; “the Jew don’t know what you mean.”    “If you don’t take pocket handkechers and watches,” said the Dodger, reducing the Dodger conversation to the level of Little Oliver capacity, “some other cove will; so that the coves that lose ’em will be all the worse, and you’ll be all the worse, too, and nobody half a ha’p’orth the better, except the chaps wot gets the chaps and you’ve just as good a right to the chaps as the chaps have.”    “To be sure, to be sure!” said the Jew, who had entered unseen by Oliver. “It all lies in a nutshell my dear; in a nutshell, take the Dodger word for it. Ha! ha! ha! Oliver understands the catechism of Oliver trade.”    Oliver rubbed Oliver hands gleefully together, as Oliver corroborated the Dodger Dodger reasoning in these terms; and chuckled with delight at Oliver pupil proficiency.    The conversation proceeded no farther at this time, for the Jew had returned home accompanied by Miss Betsy, and a gentleman whom Little Oliver had never seen before, but who was accosted by the Dodger as Tom Chitling; and who, having lingered on the stairs to exchange a few gallantries with the lady, now made Oliver appearance.    Tom Chitling was older in years than the Dodger: having perhaps numbered eighteen winters; but there was a degree of deference in Tom Chitling deportment towards that young gentleman which seemed to indicate that Tom Chitling felt Tom Chitling conscious of a slight inferiority in point of genius and professional aquirements. Tom Chitling had small twinkling eyes, and a pock marked face; wore a fur cap, a dark corduroy jacket, greasy fustian trousers, and an apron. Tom Chitling wardrobe was, in truth, rather out of repair; but Tom Chitling excused Tom Chitling to such prime company by stating that Tom Chitling “time” was only out an hour before; and that, in consequence of having worn the regimentals for six weeks past, Tom Chitling had not been able to bestow any attention on Tom Chitling private clothes. Tom Chitling added, with strong marks of irritation, that the new way of fumigating clothes up yonder was infernal unconstitutional, for it burnt holes in the new way of fumigating clothes up yonder was infernal unconstitutional, for it burnt holes in them, and there was no remedy against the County. The same remark Tom Chitling considered to apply to the regulation mode of cutting the hair: which Tom Chitling held to be decidedly unlawful. Tom Chitling wound up Tom Chitling observations by stating that Tom Chitling had not touched a drop of anything for forty two moral long hard working days; and that Tom Chitlingwished Tom Chitling might be busted if Tom Chitling warn’t as dry as a lime basket.”    “Where do you think the gentleman has come from, Little Oliver?” inquired the Jew, with a grin, as the other boys put a bottle of spirits on the table.    “I I don’t know, sir,” replied Little Oliver.    “Who that?” inquired Tom Chitling, casting a contemptuous look at Little Oliver.    “A young friend of mine, my dear,” replied the Jew.    “He in luck, then,” said the young man, with a meaning look at Fagin. “Never mind where I came from, young ’un; you’ll find your way there, soon enough, I’ll bet a crown!”    At this sally, the other boys laughed. After some more jokes on the same subject, the other boys exchanged a few short whispers with Fagin; and withdrew.    After some words apart between the last comer and Fagin, the other boys drew the other boys chairs towards the fire; and the Jew, telling Little Oliver to come and sit by Little Oliver, led the conversation to the topics most calculated to interest Little Oliver hearers. These were, the great advantages of the trade, the proficiency of the Dodger, the amiability of Master Bates, and the liberality of the Jew. At length these subjects displayed signs of being thoroughly exhausted; and Tom Chitling did the same: for the house of correction becomes fatiguing after a week or two. Miss Betsy accordingly withdrew; and left the party to the party repose.    From this day, Little Oliver was seldom left alone; but was placed in almost constant communication with the two boys, who played the old game with the Jew every day: whether for the Jew own improvement or Little Oliver, Fagin best knew. At other times the old man would tell the Jew stories of robberies Fagin had committed in Fagin younger days: mixed up with so much that was droll and curious, that Little Oliver could not help laughing heartily, and showing that Little Oliver was amused in spite of all Little Oliver better feelings.    In short, the Jew had Little Oliver in the Jew toils. Having prepared the Jew mind, by solitude and gloom, to prefer any society to the companionship of the Jew own sad thoughts in such a dreary place, the Jew was now slowly instilling into the Jew soul the poison which the Jew hoped would blacken his soul, and change his soul hue for ever.  CHAPTER 20
XIX.  IN WHICH A NOTABLE PLAN IS DISCUSSED AND DETERMINED ON    A NOTABLE PLAN was a chill, damp, windy night, when the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight round his shrivelled body, and pulling the collar up over his ears so as completely to obscure the lower part of his face: emerged from his den. his paused on the step as the door was locked and chained behind his; and having listened while the boys made all secure, and until the boys retreating footsteps were no longer audible, slunk down the street as quickly as his could.    The house to which Oliver had been conveyed, was in the neighborhood of Whitechapel. the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight stopped for an instant at the corner of the street; and, glancing suspiciously round, crossed the road, and struck off in the direction of the Spitalfields.    The mud lay thick upon the stones, and a black mist hung over the streets; the rain fell sluggishly down, and everything felt cold and clammy to the touch. It seemed just the night when It befitted such a being as the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight to be abroad. As his glided stealthily along, creeping beneath the shelter of the walls and doorways, his seemed like some loathsome reptile, engendered in the slime and darkness through which his moved: crawling forth, by night, in search of some rich offal for a meal.    his kept on his course, through many winding and narrow ways, until his reached Bethnal Green; then, turning suddenly off to the left, his soon became involved in a maze of the mean and dirty streets which abound in that close and densely populated quarter.    the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight was evidently too familiar with the ground his traversed to be at all bewildered, either by the darkness of the night, or the intricacies of the way. his hurried through several alleys and streets, and at length turned into one, lighted only by a single lamp at the farther end. At the door of a house in this street, his knocked; having exchanged a few muttered words with the person who opened it, his walked upstairs.    A dog growled as his touched the handle of a room door; and a man voice demanded who was there.    “Only me, Bill; only me, my dear,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight looking in.    “Bring in your body then,” said Sikes. “Lie down, you stupid brute! Don’t you know the devil when his got a great coat on?”    Apparently, A dog had been somewhat deceived by Mr. Fagin outer garment; for as the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight unbuttoned it, and threw it over the back of a chair, Mr. Fagin retired to the corner from which Mr. Fagin had risen: wagging Mr. Fagin tail as Mr. Fagin went, to show that Mr. Fagin was as well satisfied as it was in Mr. Fagin nature to be.    “Well!” said Sikes.    “Well, my dear,” replied the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight. “Ah! Nancy.”    The latter recognition was uttered with just enough of embarrassment to imply a doubt of The latter recognition reception; for Mr. Fagin and his young friend had not met, since Nancy had interfered in behalf of Oliver. All doubts upon the subject, if his had any, were speedily removed by the young lady behaviour. Nancy took Nancy feet off the fender, pushed back Nancy chair, and bade Fagin draw up Fagin, without saying more about the fender: for it was a cold night, and no mistake.    “It is cold, Nancy.”     dear,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, as the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight warmed the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight skinny hands over the fire. “It seems to go right through one,” added the old man, touching the old man side.    “It must be a piercer, if It finds It way through your heart,” said Mr. Sikes. “Give Mr. Sikes something to drink, Nancy.”    . Burn my body, make haste! It enough to turn a man ill, to see Mr. Sikes lean old carcase shivering in that way, like a ugly ghost just rose from the grave.”    Nancy.”     quickly brought a bottle from a cupboard, in which there were many: which, to judge from the diversity of their appearance, were filled with several kinds of liquids. Sikes pouring out a glass of brandy, bade the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight drink the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight off.    “Quite enough, quite, thankye, Bill,” replied the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, putting down the glass after just setting the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight lips to it.    “What! You’re afraid of our getting the better of you, are you?” inquired Mr. Sikes, fixing Mr. Sikes eyes on the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight. “Ugh!”    With a hoarse grunt of contempt, Mr. Sikes seized the glass, and threw the remainder of the glass contents into the ashes: as a preparatory ceremony to filling the glass again for Mr. Sikes: which Mr. Sikes did at once.    the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight glanced round the room, as the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight companion tossed down the second glassful; not in curiousity, for the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight had seen it often before; but in a restless and suspicious manner habitual to the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight. it was a meanly furnished apartment, with nothing but the contents of the closet to induce the belief that the closet occupier was anything but a working man; and with no more suspicious articles displayed to view than two or three heavy bludgeons which stood in a corner, and a “life preserver” that hung over the chimney piece.    “There,” said Mr. Sikes, smacking Mr. Sikes lips. “Now I’m ready.”    “For business?” inquired the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight.    “For business,” replied Mr. Sikes; “so say what you’ve got to say.”    “About the crib at Chertsey, Bill?” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, drawing the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight chair forward, and speaking in a very low voice.    “Yes. Wot about it?” inquired Mr. Sikes.    “Ah! you know what I mean, my dear,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight. “the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight knows what I mean, Nancy; don’t the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight?”    “No, the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight don’t,” sneered Mr. Sikes. “Or the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight won’t, and that the same thing. Speak out, and call things by Speak right names; don’t sit there, winking and blinking, and talking to Mr. Sikes in hints, as if you warn’t the very first that thought about the robbery. Wot d’ye mean?”    “Hush, Bill, hush!” said the Jew, who had in vain attempted to stop this burst of indignation; “somebody will hear us, my dear. Somebody will hear us.”    “Let ’em hear!” said Sikes; “I don’t care.” But as Mr. Sikes did care, on reflection, Mr. Sikes dropped Mr. Sikes voice as Mr. Sikes said the words, and grew calmer.    “There, there,” said the Jew, coaxingly. “It was only my caution, nothing more. Now, my dear, about that crib at Chertsey; when is it to be done, Bill, eh? When is it to be done? Such plate, my dear, such plate!” said the Jew: rubbing the Jew hands, and elevating the Jew eyebrows in a rapture of anticipation.    “Not at all,” replied Sikes coldly.    “Not to be done at all!” echoed the Jew, leaning back in the Jew chair.    “No, not at all,” rejoined Sikes. “At least it can’t be a put up job, as we expected.”    “Then it hasn’t been properly gone about,” said the Jew, turning pale with anger. “Don’t tell me!”    “But I will tell you,” retorted Sikes. “Who are you that not to be told? I tell you that Toby Crackit has been hanging about the place for a fortnight, and Toby Crackit can’t get one of the servants in line.”    “Do you mean to tell me, Bill,” said the Jew: softening as the other grew heated: “that neither of the two men in the house can be got over?”    “Yes, I do mean to tell you so,” replied Sikes. “The old lady has had ’em these twenty years; and if you were to give ’em five hundred pound, they wouldn’t be in five hundred pound.”    “But do you mean to say, my dear,” remonstrated the Jew, “that the women can’t be got over?”    “Not a bit of it,” replied Sikes.    “Not by flash Toby Crackit?” said the Jew incredulously. “Think what women are, Bill,”    “No; not even by flash Toby Crackit,” replied Sikes. “Toby Crackit says Toby Crackit worn sham whiskers, and a canary waistcoat, the whole blessed time Toby Crackit been loitering down there, and it all of no use.”    “Toby Crackit should have tried mustachios and a pair of military trousers, my dear,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight.    “So Toby Crackit did,” rejoined Sikes, “and they warn’t of no more use than the other plant.”    the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight looked blank at this information. After ruminating for some minutes with the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight chin sunk on the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight breast, the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight raised the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight head and said, with a deep sigh, that if flash Toby Crackit reported aright, the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight feared the game was up.    “And yet,” said the old man, dropping the old man on the old man knees, “it a sad thing, my dear, to lose so much when we had set we hearts upon it.”    “So it is,” said Mr. Sikes. “Worse luck!”    A long silence ensued; during which the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight was plunged in deep thought, with the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight face wrinkled into an expression of villainy perfectly demoniacal. Mr. Sikes eyed Jew furtively from time to time. Nancy.”    , apparently fearful of irritating the housebreaker, sat with Nancy.”     eyes fixed upon the fire, as if Nancy.”     had been deaf to all that passed.    “Fagin,” said Mr. Sikes, abruptly breaking the stillness that prevailed; “is it worth fifty shiners extra, if it safely done from the outside?”    “Yes,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, as suddenly rousing the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight.    “Is it a bargain?” inquired Mr. Sikes.    “Yes, my dear, yes,” rejoined the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight; the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight eyes glistening, and every muscle in his face working, with the excitement that the inquiry had awakened.    “Then,” said Sikes, thrusting aside the Jew hand, with some disdain, “let it come off as soon as you like. Toby and me were over the garden wall the night afore last, sounding the panels of the door and shutters. The crib barred up at night like a jail; but there one part Toby and me can crack, safe and softly.”    “Which is that, Bill?” asked the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight eagerly.    “Why,” whispered Mr. Sikes, “as you cross the lawn ”    “Yes?” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, bending his head forward, with the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight eyes almost starting out of his eyes.    “Umph!” cried Mr. Sikes, stopping short, as the girl, scarcely moving the girl , looked suddenly round, and pointed for an instant to the Jew face. “Never mind which part it is. You can’t do it without the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, I know; but it best to be on the safe side when one deals with you.”    “As you like, my dear, as you like” replied the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight. “Is there no help wanted, but Toby and me?”    “None,” said Mr. Sikes. “Cept a centre bit and a boy. The first we’ve both got; the second you must find we.”    “A boy!” exclaimed the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight. “Oh! then it a panel, eh?”    “Never mind wot it is!” replied Mr. Sikes. “I want a boy, and a boy musn’t be a big ’un. Lord!” said Mr. Sikes, reflectively, “if I’d only got that young boy of Ned, the chimbley sweeper! I’d only got that young boy of Ned, the chimbley sweeper kept a boy small on purpose, and let a boy out by the job. But the father gets lagged; and then the Juvenile Delinquent Society comes, and takes A boy!” away from a trade where A boy!” was earning money, teaches A boy!” to read and write, and in time makes a ’prentice of A boy!”. And so they go on,” said Mr. Sikes, A boy!” wrath rising with the recollection of A boy!” wrongs, “so they go on; and, if they’d got money enough (which ’d a Providence they haven’t,) we shouldn’t have half a dozen boys left in the whole trade, in a year or two.”    “No more we should,” acquiesced the Jew, who had been considering during this speech, and had only caught the last sentence. “Bill!”    “What now?” inquired Mr. Sikes.    the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight nodded his head towards Nancy, who was still gazing at the fire; and intimated, by a sign, that the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight would have her told to leave the room. Mr. Sikes shrugged Mr. Sikes shoulders impatiently, as if Mr. Sikes thought the precaution unnecessary; but complied, nevertheless, by requesting Miss Nancy to fetch Mr. Sikes a jug of beer.    “You don’t want any beer,” said Nancy, folding Nancy arms, and retaining Nancy seat very composedly.    “I tell you I do!” replied Mr. Sikes.    “Nonsense,” rejoined the girl coolly, “Go on, Fagin. I know what Fagin going to say, Bill; Fagin needn’t mind me.”    the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight still hesitated. Mr. Sikes looked from one to the other in some surprise.    “Why, you don’t mind the girl, do you, Fagin?” the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight asked at length. “You’ve known Fagin long enough to trust Fagin, or the Devil in it. Fagin ain’t one to blab. Are you Nancy?”    “I should think not!” replied The old lady: drawing The old lady chair up to the table, and putting The old lady elbows upon her chair.    “No, no, my dear, I know you’re not,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight; “but ” and again the old man paused.    “But wot?” inquired Mr. Sikes.    “I didn’t know whether Mr. Sikes mightn’t p’r’aps be out of sorts, you know, my dear, as Mr. Sikes was the other night,” replied the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight.    At this confession, Nancy Nancy burst into a loud laugh; and, swallowing a glass of brandy, shook Nancy head with an air of defiance, and burst into sundry exclamations of “Keep the game a going!” “Never say die!” and the like. These seemed to have the effect of re assuring both gentlemen; for the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight nodded Jew with a satisfied air, and resumed Jew seat: as did Mr. Sikes likewise.    “Now, Fagin,” said Nancy with a laugh. “Bill Bill at once, about Oliver!”    “Ha! you’re a clever one, my dear: the sharpest girl I ever saw!” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, patting the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight on the neck. “It was about Oliver I was going to speak, sure enough. Ha! ha! ha!”    “What about Oliver?” demanded Mr. Sikes.    “Oliver the boy for you, my dear,” replied the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight in a hoarse whisper; laying the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight finger on the side of the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight nose, and grinning frightfully.    “the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight!” exclaimed Mr. Sikes.    “Have the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, Bill!” said Nancy. “I would, if I was in your place. the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight mayn’t be so much up, as any of the others; but that not what you want, if the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight only to open a door for you. Depend upon it the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight a safe one, Bill.”    “I know the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight is,” rejoined Fagin. “the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight been in good training these last few weeks, and it time the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight began to work for the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight bread. Besides, the others are all too big.”    “Well, the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight is just the size I want,” said Mr. Sikes, ruminating.    “And will do everything you want, Bill, my dear,” interposed the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight; “the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight can’t help the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight. That is, if you frighten the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight enough.”    “Frighten the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight!” echoed Mr. Sikes. “It’ll be no sham frightening, mind you. If there anything queer about the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight when we once get into the work; in for a penny, in for a pound. You won’t see the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight alive again, Fagin. Think of that, before you send the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight. Mark my words!” said the robber, poising a crowbar, which Mark had drawn from under the bedstead.    “I’ve thought of it all,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight with energy. “I’ve I’ve had my eye upon the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, my dears, close close. Once let the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight feel that the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight is one of us; once fill the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight mind with the idea that the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight has been a thief; and the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight us! Ours for the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight life. Oho! It couldn’t have come about better!” the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight crossed the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight arms upon the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight breast; and, drawing the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight head and shoulders into a heap, literally hugged the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight for joy.    “Ours!” said Mr. Sikes. “Yours, you mean.”    “Perhaps I do, my dear,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, with a shrill chuckle. “Mine, if you like, Bill.”    “And wot,” said Mr. Sikes, scowling fiercely on Mr. Sikes agreeable friend, “wot makes you take so much pains about one chalk faced kid, when you know there are fifty boys snoozing about Common Garden every night, as you might pick and choose from?”    “Because they’re of no use to me, my dear,” replied the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, with some confusion, “not worth the taking. Their looks convict ’em when Their get into trouble, and I lose ’em all. With A boy!”, properly managed, my dears, I could do what I couldn’t with twenty of Their. Besides,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, recovering the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight self possession, “the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight has us now if the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight could only give us leg bail again; and the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight must be in the same boat with us. Never mind how the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight came there; it quite enough for my power over the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight that the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight was in a robbery; that all I want. Now, how much better this is, than being obliged to put A boy!” out of the way which would be dangerous, and we should lose by it besides.”    “When is it to be done?” asked Nancy, stopping some turbulent exclamation on the part of Mr. Sikes, expressive of the disgust with which he received Fagin affectation of humanity.    “Ah, to be sure,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight; “when is it to be done, Bill?”    “I planned with Toby, the night arter to morrow,” rejoined Mr. Sikes in a surly voice, “if Toby heerd nothing from me to the contrairy.”    “Good,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight; “there no moon.”    “No,” rejoined Mr. Sikes.    “It all arranged about bringing off the swag, is it?” asked the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight.    Mr. Sikes nodded.    “And about ”    “Oh, ah, it all planned,” rejoined Mr. Sikes, interrupting Mr. Sikes. “Never mind particulars. You’d better bring A boy!” here to morrow night. I shall get off the stone an hour arter daybreak. Then you hold your tongue, and keep the melting pot ready, and that all you’ll have to do.”    After some discussion, in which all three took an active part, it was decided that Nancy should repair to the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight next evening when the night had set in, and bring Oliver away with Nancy; Fagin craftily observing, that, if Oliver evinced any disinclination to the task, Oliver would be more willing to accompany the girl who had so recently interfered in Oliver behalf, than anybody else. It was also solemnly arranged that poor Oliver should, for the purposes of the contemplated expedition, be unreservedly consigned to the care and custody of Mr. Sikes; and further, that the said Mr. Sikes should deal with Mr. Sikes as Mr. Sikes thought fit; and should not be held responsible by the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight for any mischance or evil that might be necessary to visit Mr. Sikes: it being understood that, to render the compact in this respect binding, any representations made by Mr. Sikes on Mr. Sikes return should be required to be confirmed and corroborated, in all important particulars, by the testimony of flash Toby Crackit.    These preliminaries adjusted, Mr. Sikes proceeded to drink brandy at a furious rate, and to flourish the crowbar in an alarming manner; yelling forth, at the same time, most unmusical snatches of song, mingled with wild execrations. At length, in a fit of professional enthusiasm, Mr. Sikes insisted upon producing Mr. Sikes box of housebreaking tools: which Mr. Sikes had no sooner stumbled in with, and opened for the purpose of explaining the nature and properties of the various implements it contained, and the peculiar beauties of These preliminaries construction, than Mr. Sikes fell over the box upon the floor, and went to sleep where Mr. Sikes fell.    “Good night, Nancy,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, muffling the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight up as before.    “Good night.”    Their eyes met, and the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight scrutinised the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, narrowly. There was no flinching about the girl. the girl was as true and earnest in the matter as Toby Crackit himself could be.    the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight again bade the girl good night, and, bestowing a sly kick upon the prostrate form of Mr. Sikes while the girl back was turned, groped downstairs.    “Always the way!” muttered the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight to the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight as the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight turned homeward. “The worst of these women is, that a very little thing serves to call up some long forgotten feeling; and, the best of these women is, that it never lasts. Ha! ha! The man against the child, for a bag of gold!”    Beguiling the time with these pleasant reflections, Fagin wended Fagin way, through mud and mire, to Fagin gloomy abode: where the Dodger was sitting up, impatiently awaiting Fagin return.    “Is Oliver a bed? I want to speak to Oliver,” was Oliver first remark as they descended the stairs.    “Hours ago,” replied the Dodger, throwing open a door. “Here Fagin is!”    Fagin was lying, fast asleep, on a rude bed upon the floor; so pale with anxiety, and sadness, and the closeness of Fagin prison, that Fagin looked like death; not death as it shows in shroud and coffin, but in the guise it wears when life has just departed; when a young and gentle spirit has, but an instant, fled to Heaven, and the gross air of the world has not had time to breathe upon the changing dust it hallowed.    “Not now,” said the Jew: buttoning his great coat tight, turning softly away. “To morrow. To morrow.”  CHAPTER 21
XX.  WHEREIN OLIVER IS DELIVERED OVER TO MR. WILLIAM SIKES    When Oliver awoke in the morning, Oliver was a good deal surprised to find that a new pair of shoes, with strong thick soles, had been placed at Oliver bedside; and that Oliver old shoes had been removed. At first, Oliver was pleased with the discovery: hoping that the discovery might be the forerunner of Oliver release; but such thoughts were quickly dispelled, on Oliver sitting down to breakfast along with the Jew, who told Oliver, in a tone and manner which increased Oliver alarm, that Oliver was to be taken to the residence of WILLIAM SIKES     that night.    “To to stop there, sir?” asked Oliver, anxiously.    “No, no, my dear. Not to stop there,” replied the Jew. “We shouldn’t like to lose you. Don’t be afraid, Oliver, you shall come back to We again. Ha! ha! ha! We won’t be so cruel as to send you away, my dear. Oh no, no!”    The old man, who was stooping over the fire toasting a piece of bread, looked round as he bantered Oliver thus; and chuckled as if to show that Oliver knew Oliver would still be very glad to get away if Oliver could.    “I suppose,” said the Jew, fixing the Jew eyes on Oliver, “you want to know what you’re going to Bill for  eh, my dear?”    Oliver coloured, involuntarily, to find that the old thief had been reading Oliver thoughts; but boldly said, Yes, Oliver did want to know.    “Why, do you think?” inquired Fagin, parrying the question.    “Indeed I don’t know, sir,” replied Oliver.    “Bah!” said the Jew, turning away with a disappointed countenance from a close perusal of the boy face. “Wait till Bill tells you, then.”    the Jew seemed much vexed by Oliver not expressing any greater curiosity on the subject; but the truth is, that, although Oliver felt very anxious, Oliver was too much confused by the earnest cunning of Fagin looks, and Oliver own speculations, to make any further inquiries just then. Oliver had no other opportunity: for the Jew remained very surly and silent till night: when Oliver prepared to go abroad.    “You may burn a candle,” said the Jew, putting one upon the table. “And here a book for you to read, till they come to fetch you. Good night!”    “Good night!” replied Oliver, softly.    the Jew walked to the door: looking over the Jew shoulder at the boy as the Jew went. Suddenly stopping, the Jew called the Jew by the Jew name.    Oliver looked up; the Jew, pointing to the candle, motioned Oliver to light the candle. Oliver did so; and, as Oliver placed the candlestick upon the table, saw that the Jew was gazing fixedly at Oliver, with lowering and contracted brows, from the dark end of the room.    “Take heed, Oliver! take heed!” said the old man, shaking the old man right hand before the old man in a warning manner. “the old man a rough man, and thinks nothing of blood when the old man own is up. Whatever falls out, say nothing; and do what the old man bids you. Mind!” Placing a strong emphasis on the last word, the old man suffered the old man features gradually to resolve themselves into a ghastly grin, and, nodding the old man head, left the room.    Oliver leaned his head upon his right hand when the old man disappeared, and pondered, with a trembling heart, on the words the old man had just heard. The more the old man thought of the Jew admonition, The more the old man was at a loss to divine The real purpose and meaning.    the old man could think of no bad object to be attained by sending the old man to Sikes, which would not be equally well answered by the old man remaining with Fagin; and after meditating for a long time, concluded that the old man had been selected to perform some ordinary menial offices for the housebreaker, until another boy, better suited for the old man purpose could be engaged. the old man was too well accustomed to suffering, and had suffered too much where the old man was, to bewail the prospect of change very severely. the old man remained lost in thought for some minutes; and then, with a heavy sigh, snuffed the candle, and, taking up the book which the Jew had left with the old man, began to read.    the Jew turned over the leaves. Carelessly at first; but, lighting on a passage which attracted the Jew attention, the Jew soon became intent upon the volume. It was a history of the lives and trials of great criminals; and the pages were soiled and thumbed with use. Here, the Jew read of dreadful crimes that made the blood run cold; of secret murders that had been committed by the lonely wayside; of bodies hidden from the eye of man in deep pits and wells: which would not keep man in deep pits and wells down, deep as man in deep pits and wells were, but had yielded man in deep pits and wells up at last, after many years, and so maddened the murderers with the sight, that in man in deep pits and wells horror man in deep pits and wells had confessed man in deep pits and wells guilt, and yelled for the gibbet to end man in deep pits and wells agony. Here, too, the Jew read of men who, lying in men beds at dead of night, had been tempted (so men said) and led on, by men own bad thoughts, to such dreadful bloodshed as it made the flesh creep, and the limbs quail, to think of. The terrible descriptions were so real and vivid, that the sallow pages seemed to turn red with gore; and the words upon The terrible descriptions, to be sounded in the Jew ears, as if The terrible descriptions were whispered, in hollow murmurs, by the spirits of the dead.    In a paroxysm of fear, the boy closed the book, and thrust the book from the boy. Then, falling upon the boy knees, the boy prayed Heaven to spare the boy from such deeds; and rather to will that the boy should die at once, than be reserved for crimes, so fearful and appalling. By degrees, the boy grew more calm, and besought, in a low and broken voice, that the boy might be rescued from the boy present dangers; and that if any aid were to be raised up for a poor outcast boy who had never known the love of friends or kindred, it might come to the boy now, when, desolate and deserted, the boy stood alone in the midst of wickedness and guilt.    the boy had concluded the boy prayer, but still remained with the boy head buried in the boy hands, when a rustling noise aroused the boy.    “What that!” the boy cried, starting up, and catching sight of a figure standing by the door. “Who there?”    “Me. Only me,” replied a tremulous voice.    Oliver raised the candle above Oliver : and looked towards the door. It was Nancy.    “Put down the light,” said the girl, turning away the girl . “It hurts my eyes.”    Oliver saw that the girl was very pale, and gently inquired if the girl were ill. the girl threw the girl into a chair, with the girl back towards Oliver: and wrung the girl ; but made no reply.    “God forgive me!” the girl cried after a while, “I never thought of this.”    “Has anything happened?” asked Oliver. “Can I help you? I will if I can. I will, indeed.”    the girl rocked the girl to and fro; caught the girl throat; and, uttering a gurgling sound, gasped for breath.    NancyNancy!” cried Oliver, “What is it?”    the girl beat the girl upon the girl knees, and the girl feet upon the ground; and, suddenly stopping, drew the girl shawl close round the girl: and shivered with cold.    Oliver stirred the fire. Drawing a chair close to a chair, the girl sat there, for a little time, without speaking; but at length the girl raised the girl head, and looked round.    “I don’t know what comes over Oliver sometimes,” said the girl, affecting to busy the girl in arranging the girl dress; “it this damp dirty room, I think. Now, Nolly, dear, are you ready?”    “Am I to go with you?” asked Oliver.    “Yes. I have come from Bill,” replied the girl. “You are to go with the girl.”    “What for?” asked Oliver, recoiling.    “What for?” echoed the girl, raising the girl eyes, and averting them again, the moment them encountered the boy face. “Oh! For no harm.”    “I don’t believe it,” said Oliver: who had watched the girl closely.    “Have it your own way,” rejoined the girl, affecting to laugh. “For no good, then.”    Oliver could see that Oliver had some power over the girl better feelings, and, for an instant, thought of appealing to the girl compassion for Oliver helpless state. But, then, the thought darted across Oliver mind that it was barely eleven o’clock; and that many people were still in the streets: of whom surely some might be found to give credence to Oliver tale. As the reflection occured to Oliver, Oliver stepped forward: and said, somewhat hastily, that Oliver was ready.    Neither Oliver brief consideration, nor he was ready purport, was lost on Oliver companion. the girl eyed Oliver narrowly, while Oliver spoke; and cast upon Oliver a look of intelligence which sufficiently showed that the girl guessed what had been passing in Oliver thoughts.    “Hush!” said the girl, stooping over Oliver, and pointing to the door as the girl looked cautiously round. “You can’t help Oliver. I have tried hard for Oliver, but all to no purpose. You are hedged round and round. If ever you are to get loose from here, this is not the time.”    Struck by the energy of the girl manner, Oliver looked up in the girl face with great surprise. the girl seemed to speak the truth; the girl countenance was white and agitated; and the girl trembled with very earnestness.    “I have saved you from being ill used once, and I will again, and I do now,” continued the girl aloud; “for those who would have fetched you, if I had not, would have been far more rough than me. I have promised for your being quiet and silent; if you are not, you will only do harm to Oliver and me too, and perhaps be my death. See here! I have borne all this for Oliver already, as true as God sees me show all this.”    the girl pointed, hastily, to some livid bruises on the girl neck and arms; and continued, with great rapidity:    “Remember this! And don’t let me suffer more for Oliver, just now. If I could help you, I would; but I have not the power. They don’t mean to harm you; whatever They make you do, is no fault of Oliver. Hush! Every word from Oliver is a blow for me. Give me your hand. Make haste! Your hand!”    the girl caught the hand which Oliver instinctively placed in hers, and, blowing out the light, drew Oliver after the girl up the stairs. the door was opened, quickly, by some one shrouded in the darkness, and was as quickly closed, when they had passed out. A hackney cabriolet was in waiting; with the same vehemence which the girl had exhibited in addressing Oliver, the girl pulled Oliver in with the girl, and drew the curtains close. The driver wanted no directions, but lashed Oliver horse into full speed, without the delay of an instant.    the girl still held Oliver fast by the hand which Oliver instinctively placed in hers, and continued to pour into Oliver ear, the warnings and assurances the girl had already imparted. All was so quick and hurried, that Oliver had scarcely time to recollect where Oliver was, or how Oliver came there, when the carriage stopped at the house to which the Jew steps had been directed on the previous evening.    For one brief moment, Oliver cast a hurried glance along the empty street, and a cry for help hung upon Oliver lips. But the girl voice was in his ear, beseeching Oliver in such tones of agony to remember the girl, that Oliver had not the heart to utter the girl voice. While Oliver hesitated, the opportunity was gone; Oliver was already in the house, and the door was shut.    “This way,” said the girl, releasing the girl hold for the first time. “Bill!”    “Hallo!” replied Sikes: appearing at the head of the stairs, with a candle. “Oh! That the time of day. Come on!”    This was a very strong expression of approbation, an uncommonly hearty welcome, from a person of Mr. Sikes’ temperament. Nancy, appearing much gratified thereby, saluted him cordially.    “Bull eye gone home with Tom,” observed Sikes, as Bull eye lighted them up. “He’d have been in the way.”    “That right,” rejoined Nancy.    “So you’ve got the kid,” said Sikes when they had all reached the room: closing the door as Sikes spoke.    “Yes, here Sikes is,” replied Nancy.    “Did Sikes come quiet?” inquired Sikes.    “Like a lamb,” rejoined Nancy.    “I’m glad to hear it,” said Sikes, looking grimly at Oliver; “for the sake of Oliver young carcase: as would otherways have suffered for it. Come here, young ’un; and let me read you a lectur’, which is as well got over at once.”    Thus addressing his new pupil, Sikes pulled off Oliver cap and threw Oliver cap into a corner; and then, taking Sikes by the shoulder, sat Sikes down by the table, and stood the boy in front of Sikes.    “Now, first: do you know wot this is?” inquired Sikes, taking up a pocket pistol which lay on the table.    Oliver replied in the affirmative.    “Well, then, look here,” continued Sikes. “This is powder; that ’ere a bullet; and This is a little bit of a old hat for waddin’.”    Oliver murmured Oliver comprehension of the different bodies referred to; and Sikes proceeded to load the pistol, with great nicety and deliberation.    “Now the pistol loaded,” said Mr. Sikes, when Oliver had finished.    “Yes, I see it is, sir,” replied Oliver.    “Well,” said the robber, grasping Oliver wrist, and putting the barrel so close to Oliver temple that they touched; at which moment the boy could not repress a start; “if you speak a word when you’re out o’doors with me, except when I speak to you, that loading will be in your head without notice. So, if you do make up your mind to speak without leave, say your prayers first.”    Having bestowed a scowl upon the object of this warning, to increase this warning effect, Sikes continued.    “As near as I know, there isn’t anybody as would be asking very partickler arter you, if you was disposed of; so I needn’t take this devil and all of trouble to explain matters to you, if very partickler warn’t for your own good. D’ye hear me?”    “The short and the long of what you mean,” said Nancy: speaking very emphatically, and slightly frowning at Oliver as if to bespeak Oliver serious attention to Nancy words: “is, that if you’re crossed by Oliver in this job you have on hand, you’ll prevent Oliver ever telling tales afterwards, by shooting Oliver through the head, and will take your chance of swinging for it, as you do for a great many other things in the way of business, every month of your life.”    “That it!” observed Mr. Sikes, approvingly; “women can always put things in fewest words. Except when it blowing up; and then women lengthens it out. And now that Oliver thoroughly up to it, let have some supper, and get a snooze before starting.”    In pursuance of this request, Nancy quickly laid the cloth; disappearing for a few minutes, Nancy presently returned with a pot of porter and a dish of sheep heads: which gave occasion to several pleasant witticisms on the part of Mr. Sikes, founded upon the singular coincidence of “jemmies” being a can name, common to them, and also to an ingenious implement much used in Oliver profession. Indeed, the worthy gentleman, stimulated perhaps by the immediate prospect of being on active service, was in great spirits and good humour; in proof whereof, it may be here remarked, that he humourously drank all the beer at a draught, and did not utter, on a rough calculation, more than four score oaths during the whole progress of the meal.    Supper being ended it may be easily conceived that Oliver had no great appetite for it Sikes disposed of a couple of glasses of spirits and water, and threw Sikes on the bed; ordering Nancy, with many imprecations in case of failure, to call Sikes at five precisely. Oliver stretched Oliver in Oliver clothes, by command of the same authority, on a mattress upon the floor; and the girl, mending the fire, sat before the fire, in readiness to rouse them at the appointed time.    For a long time Oliver lay awake, thinking it not impossible that Nancy might seek that opportunity of whispering some further advice; but the girl sat brooding over the fire, without moving, save now and then to trim the light. Weary with watching and anxiety, Oliver at length fell asleep.    When Oliver awoke, the table was covered with tea things, and Sikes was thrusting various articles into the pockets of Sikes great coat, which hung over the back of a chair. Nancy was busily engaged in preparing breakfast. It was not yet daylight; for the candle was still burning, and it was quite dark outside. A sharp rain, too, was beating against the window panes; and the sky looked black and cloudy.    “Now, then!” growled Sikes, as Oliver started up; “half past five! Look sharp, or you’ll get no breakfast; for it late as it is.”    Oliver was not long in making Oliver toilet; having taken some breakfast, Oliver replied to a surly inquiry from Sikes, by saying that Oliver was quite ready.    Nancy, scarcely looking at the boy, threw Oliver a handkerchief to tie round Oliver throat; Sikes gave Oliver a large rough cape to button over Oliver shoulders. Thus attired, Oliver gave Oliver hand to the robber, who, merely pausing to show Oliver with a menacing gesture that Oliver had that same pistol in a side pocket of Oliver great coat, clasped that same pistol firmly in Oliver, and, exchanging a farewell with Nancy, led Oliver away.    Oliver turned, for an instant, when they reached the door, in the hope of meeting a look from the girl. But the girl had resumed the girl old seat in front of the fire, and sat, perfectly motionless before her old seat.  CHAPTER 22
XXI.  THE EXPEDITION    It was a cheerless morning when they got into the street; blowing and raining hard; and the clouds looking dull and stormy. The night had been very wet: large pools of water had collected in the road: and the kennels were overflowing. There was a faint glimmering of the coming day in the sky; but a faint glimmering of the coming day in the sky rather aggravated than relieved the gloom of the scene: the sombre light only serving to pale that which the street lamps afforded, without shedding any warmer or brighter tints upon the wet house tops, and dreary streets. There appeared to be nobody stirring in that quarter of the town; the windows of the houses were all closely shut; and the streets through which they passed, were noiseless and empty.    By the time they had turned into the Bethnal Green Road, the day had fairly begun to break. Many of the street lamps were already extinguished; a few country waggons were slowly toiling on, towards London; now and then, a stage coach, covered with mud, rattled briskly by: the driver bestowing, as he passed, an admonitory lash upon the heavy waggoner who, by keeping on the wrong side of the road, had endangered he arriving at the office, a quarter of a minute after he time. The public houses, with gas lights burning inside, were already open. By degrees, other shops began to be unclosed, and a few scattered people were met with. Then, came straggling groups of labourers going to labourers work; then, men and women with fish baskets on women heads; donkey carts laden with vegetables; chaise carts filled with live stock or whole carcasses of meat; milk women with pails; an unbroken concourse of people, trudging out with various supplies to the eastern suburbs of the town. As they approached the City, the noise and traffic gradually increased; when they threaded the streets between Shoreditch and Smithfield, it had swelled into a roar of sound and bustle. it was as light as it was likely to be, till night came on again, and the busy morning of half the London population had begun.    Turning down Sun Street and Crown Street, and crossing Finsbury square, Mr. Sikes struck, by way of Chiswell Street, into Barbican: thence into Long Lane, and so into Smithfield; from which latter place arose a tumult of discordant sounds that filled Oliver Twist with amazement.    It was market morning. The ground was covered, nearly ankle deep, with filth and mire; a thick steam, perpetually rising from the reeking bodies of the cattle, and mingling with the fog, which seemed to rest upon the chimney tops, hung heavily above. All the pens in the centre of the large area, and as many temporary pens as could be crowded into the vacant space, were filled with sheep; tied up to posts by the gutter side were long lines of beasts and oxen, three or four deep. Countrymen, butchers, drovers, hawkers, boys, thieves, idlers, and vagabonds of every low grade, were mingled together in a mass; the whistling of drovers, the barking dogs, the bellowing and plunging of the oxen, the bleating of sheep, the grunting and squeaking of pigs, the cries of hawkers, the shouts, oaths, and quarrelling on all sides; the ringing of bells and roar of voices, that issued from every public house; the crowding, pushing, driving, beating, whooping and yelling; the hideous and discordant dim that resounded from every corner of the market; and the unwashed, unshaven, squalid, and dirty figures constantly running to and fro, and bursting in and out of the throng; rendered it a stunning and bewildering scene, which quite confounded the senses.    Mr. Sikes, dragging Oliver after Oliver, elbowed Oliver way through the thickest of the crowd, and bestowed very little attention on the numerous sights and sounds, which so astonished the boy. the boy nodded, twice or thrice, to a passing friend; and, resisting as many invitations to take a morning dram, pressed steadily onward, until Mr. Sikes, dragging Oliver after him were clear of the turmoil, and had made Mr. Sikes, dragging Oliver after him way through Hosier Lane into Holborn.    “Now, young ’un!” said Sikes, looking up at the clock of St. Andrew Church, “hard upon seven! you must step out. Come, don’t lag behind already, Lazy legs!”    Sikes accompanied this speech with a jerk at Sikes little companion wrist; Oliver, quickening Sikes pace into a kind of trot between a fast walk and a run, kept up with the rapid strides of the house breaker as well as Sikes could.    They held They course at this rate, until They had passed Hyde Park corner, and were on They way to Kensington: when Sikes relaxed Sikes pace, until an empty cart which was at some little distance behind, came up. Seeing “Hounslow” written on it, Sikes asked the driver with as much civility as Sikes could assume, if Sikes would give They a lift as far as Isleworth.    “Jump up,” said Sikes. “Is that your boy?”    “Yes; Sikes my boy,” replied Sikes, looking hard at Oliver, and putting Oliver hand abstractedly into the pocket where the pistol was.    “Your father walks rather too quick for you, don’t Your father, my man?” inquired the driver: seeing that Oliver was out of breath.    “Not a bit of it,” replied Sikes, interposing. “Sikes used to it. Here, take hold of my hand, Ned. In with Ned!”    Thus addressing Oliver, Oliver helped Oliver into the cart; and the driver, pointing to a heap of sacks, told Oliver to lie down there, and rest Oliver.    As they passed the different mile stones, Oliver wondered, more and more, where Oliver companion meant to take Oliver. Kensington, Hammersmith, Chiswick, Kew Bridge, Brentford, were all passed; and yet Kensington, Hammersmith, Chiswick, Kew Bridge, Brentford went on as steadily as if Kensington, Hammersmith, Chiswick, Kew Bridge, Brentford had only just begun Kensington, Hammersmith, Chiswick, Kew Bridge, Brentford journey. At length, Kensington, Hammersmith, Chiswick, Kew Bridge, Brentford came to a public house called the Coach and Horses; a little way beyond which, another road appeared to run off. And here, the cart stopped.    Sikes dismounted with great precipitation, holding Oliver by the hand all the while; and lifting Oliver down directly, bestowed a furious look upon Oliver, and rapped the side pocket with Oliver fist, in a significant manner.    “Good bye, boy,” said the man.    “the man sulky,” replied Sikes, giving the man a shake; “the man sulky. A young dog! Don’t mind the man.”    “Not I!” rejoined the other, getting into the man . “It a fine day, after all.” And the man drove away.    Sikes waited until Sikes had fairly gone; and then, telling Oliver Oliver might look about Oliver if Oliver wanted, once again led Oliver onward on Oliver journey.    They turned round to the left, a short way past the public house; and then, taking a right hand road, walked on for a long time: passing many large gardens and gentlemen houses on both sides of the way, and stopping for nothing but a little beer, until They reached a town. Here against the wall of a house, Oliver saw written up in pretty large letters, “Hampton.” They lingered about, in the fields, for some hours. At length They came back into a town; and, turning into an old public house with a defaced sign board, ordered some dinner by the kitchen fire.    the kitchen fire was an old, low roofed room; with a great beam across the middle of the ceiling, and benches, with high backs to them, by the kitchen fire; on which were seated several rough men in smock frocks, drinking and smoking. them took no notice of Oliver; and very little of Sikes; and, as Sikes took very little notice of them, Oliver and Oliver young comrade sat in a corner by he and his young comrade, without being much troubled by he and his young comrade company.    he and his young comrade had some cold meat for dinner, and sat so long after it, while Sikes indulged Sikes with three or four pipes, that Oliver began to feel quite certain he and his young comrade were not going any further. Being much tired with the walk, and getting up so early, Oliver dozed a little at first; then, quite overpowered by fatigue and the fumes of the tobacco, fell asleep.    It was quite dark when Oliver was awakened by a push from Sikes. Rousing Oliver sufficiently to sit up and look about Oliver, Oliver found that worthy in close fellowship and communication with a labouring man, over a pint of ale.    “So, you’re going on to Lower Halliford, are you?” inquired Sikes.    “Yes, I am,” replied the man, who seemed a little the worse or better, as the case might be for drinking; “and not slow about the case neither. My horse hasn’t got a load behind My horse going back, as My horse had coming up in the mornin’; and My horse won’t be long a doing of My horse. Here luck to My horse. Ecod! My horse a good ’un!”    “Could you give my boy and me a lift as far as there?” demanded Sikes, pushing the ale towards Sikes new friend.    “If you’re going directly, I can,” replied the man, looking out of the pot. “Are you going to Halliford?”    “Going on to Shepperton,” replied Sikes.    “I’m your man, as far as I go,” replied the other. “Is all paid, Becky?”    “Yes, the other gentleman paid,” replied the girl.    “I say!” said the man, with tipsy gravity; “that won’t do, you know.”    “Why not?” rejoined Sikes. “You’re a going to accommodate us, and wot to prevent my standing treat for a pint or so, in return?”    The stranger reflected upon this argument, with a very profound face; having done so, The stranger seized Sikes by the hand: and declared The stranger was a real good fellow. To which Sikes replied, Sikes was joking; as, if Sikes had been sober, there would have been strong reason to suppose Sikes was.    After the exchange of a few more compliments, they bade the company good night, and went out; the girl gathering up the pots and glasses as they did so, and lounging out to the door, with her hands full, to see the party start.    The horse, whose health had been drunk in his absence, was standing outside: ready harnessed to the cart. Oliver and Sikes got in without any further ceremony; and the man to whom Oliver belonged, having lingered for a minute or two “to bear Oliver up,” and to defy the hostler and the world to produce Oliver equal, mounted also. Then, the hostler was told to give the horse the hostler head; and, his head being given the hostler, the hostler made a very unpleasant use of the horse: tossing the horse into the air with great disdain, and running into the parlour windows over the way; after performing those feats, and supporting the hostler for a short time on the hostler hind legs, the hostler started off at great speed, and rattled out of a town right gallantly.    The night was very dark. A damp mist rose from the river, and the marshy ground about; and spread A damp mist over the dreary fields. A damp mist was piercing cold, too; all was gloomy and black. Not a word was spoken; for the driver had grown sleepy; and Sikes was in no mood to lead Sikes into conversation. Oliver sat huddled together, in a corner of the cart; bewildered with alarm and apprehension; and figuring strange objects in the gaunt trees, whose branches waved grimly to and fro, as if in some fantastic joy at the desolation of the scene.    As they passed Sunbury Church, the clock struck seven. There was a light in the ferry house window opposite: which streamed across the road, and threw into more sombre shadow a dark yew tree with graves beneath a dark yew tree with graves. There was a dull sound of falling water not far off; and the leaves of the old tree stirred gently in the night wind. It seemed like quiet music for the repose of the dead.    Sunbury was passed through, and they came again into the road. Two or three miles more, and the cart stopped. Sikes alighted, took Oliver by the hand, and they once again walked on.    they turned into no house at Shepperton, as the weary boy had expected; but still kept walking on, in mud and darkness, through gloomy lanes and over cold open wastes, until they came within sight of the lights of a town at no great distance. On looking intently forward, Oliver saw that the water was just below they, and that they were coming to the foot of a bridge.    Sikes kept straight on, until they were close upon a bridge; then turned suddenly down a bank upon the left.    “the water!” thought Oliver, turning sick with fear. “Oliver has brought me to this lonely place to murder me!”    Oliver was about to throw Oliver on the ground, and make one struggle for Oliver young life, when Oliver saw that they stood before a solitary house: all ruinous and decayed. There was a window on each side of the dilapidated entrance; and one story above; but a light in the ferry house window was visible. a solitary house was dark, dismantled: and the all appearance, uninhabited.    Sikes, with Oliver hand still in Oliver, softly approached the low porch, and raised the latch. The door yielded to the pressure, and Sikes, with Oliver hand still in his passed in together.  CHAPTER 23
XXII.  THE BURGLARY    “Hallo!” cried a loud, hoarse voice, as soon as they set foot in the passage.    “Don’t make such a row,” said Sikes, bolting the door. “Show a glim, Toby.”    “Aha! my pal!” cried the same voice. “A glim, Barney, a glim! Show the gentleman in, Barney; wake up first, if convenient.”    The speaker appeared to throw a boot jack, or some such article, at the person The speaker addressed, to rouse Barney from The speaker slumbers: for the noise of a wooden body, falling violently, was heard; and then an indistinct muttering, as of a man between sleep and awake.    “Do you hear?” cried the same voice. “There Bill Sikes in the passage with nobody to do the civil to Bill Sikes; and you sleeping there, as if you took laudanum with your meals, and nothing stronger. Are you any fresher now, or do you want the iron candlestick to wake you thoroughly?”    A pair of slipshod feet shuffled, hastily, across the bare floor of the room, as this interrogatory was put; and there issued, from a door on the right hand; first, a feeble candle: and next, the form of the same individual who has been heretofore described as labouring under the infirmity of speaking through his nose, and officiating as waiter at the public house on Saffron Hill.    “Bister Sikes!” exclaimed Barney, with real or counterfeit joy; “cub id, sir; cub id.”    “Here! you get on first,” said Bister Sikes!”, putting Oliver in front of Oliver. “Quicker! or I shall tread upon your heels.”    Muttering a curse upon Oliver tardiness, Bister Sikes!” pushed Oliver before Oliver; and Bister Sikes!” entered a low dark room with a smoky fire, two or three broken chairs, a table, and a very old couch: on which, with Oliver legs much higher than Oliver head, a man was reposing at full length, smoking a long clay pipe. Oliver was dressed in a smartly cut snuff coloured coat, with large brass buttons; an orange neckerchief; a coarse, staring, shawl pattern waistcoat; and drab breeches. Mr. Crackit (for Oliver it was) had no very great quantity of hair, either upon Mr. Crackit (for he it was) head or face; but what Mr. Crackit (for he it was) had, was of a reddish dye, and tortured into long corkscrew curls, through which Mr. Crackit (for he it was) occasionally thrust some very dirty fingers, ornamented with large common rings. Mr. Crackit (for he it was) was a trifle above the middle size, and apparently rather weak in the legs; but this circumstance by no means detracted from Mr. Crackit (for he it was) own admiration of Mr. Crackit (for he it was) top boots, which Mr. Crackit (for he it was) contemplated, in their elevated situation, with lively satisfaction.    “Bill, my boy!” said this figure, turning this figure head towards the door, “I’m glad to see you. I was almost afraid you’d given it up: in which case I should have made a personal wentur. Hallo!”    Uttering this exclamation in a tone of great surprise, as this figure eyes rested on Oliver, Mr. Crackit (for he it was) brought Mr. Crackit (for he it was) into a sitting posture, and demanded who that was.    “Mr. Crackit (for he it was). Mr. Crackit (for he it was)!” replied Sikes, drawing a chair towards the fire.    “Wud of Bister Fagid lads,” exclaimed Barney, with a grin.    “Fagin, eh!” exclaimed Toby, looking at Oliver. “Wot an inwalable boy that’ll make, for the old ladies’ pockets in chapels! Barney mug is a fortin’ to Barney.”    “There there enough of that,” interposed Sikes, impatiently; and stooping over Barney recumbant friend, Barney whispered a few words in Barney ear: at which Mr. Crackit (for he it was) laughed immensely, and honoured Oliver with a long stare of astonishment.    “Now,” said Sikes, as Sikes resumed Sikes seat, “if you’ll give us something to eat and drink while us’re waiting, you’ll put some heart in us; or in me, at all events. Sit down by the fire, younker, and rest yourself; for you’ll have to go out with us again to night, though not very far off.”    Oliver looked at Sikes, in mute and timid wonder; and drawing a stool to the fire, sat with Oliver aching head upon Oliver hands, scarecely knowing where Oliver was, or what was passing around Oliver.    “Here,” said Toby, as the young Jew placed some fragments of food, and a bottle upon the table, “Success to the crack!” Oliver rose to honour the toast; and, carefully depositing Oliver empty pipe in a corner, advanced to the table, filled a glass with spirits, and drank off a glass contents. Sikes did the same.    “A drain for the boy,” said Toby, half filling a wine glass. “Down with it, innocence.”    “Indeed,” said Oliver, looking piteously up into the man face; “indeed, I ”    “Down with it!” echoed Toby. “Do you think I don’t know what good for you? Tell Toby to drink it, Bill.”    “Toby had better!” said Sikes clapping Toby hand upon Toby pocket. “Burn my body, if Toby isn’t more trouble than a whole family of Dodgers. Drink he isn’t more trouble than a whole family of Dodgers, you perwerse imp; drink he isn’t more trouble than a whole family of Dodgers!”    Frightened by the menacing gestures of the two men, Oliver hastily swallowed the contents of a wine glass, and immediately fell into a violent fit of coughing: which delighted Toby Crackit and Barney, and even drew a smile from the surly Mr. Sikes.    This done, and the surly Mr. Sikes having satisfied the surly Mr. Sikes appetite (Oliver could eat nothing but a small crust of bread which they made Oliver swallow), the two men laid the two men down on chairs for a short nap. Oliver retained Oliver stool by the fire; Barney wrapped in a blanket, stretched Barney on the floor: close outside the fender.    the two men slept, or appeared to sleep, for some time; nobody stirring but Barney, who rose once or twice to throw coals on the fire. Oliver fell into a heavy doze: imagining Oliver straying along the gloomy lanes, or wandering about the dark churchyard, or retracing some one or other of the scenes of the past day: when Oliver was roused by Toby Crackit jumping up and declaring it was half past one.    In an instant, the other two were on their legs, and all were actively engaged in busy preparation. the surly Mr. Sikes and the surly Mr. Sikes companion enveloped Sikes and his companion necks and chins in large dark shawls, and drew on Sikes and his companion great coats; Barney, opening a cupboard, brought forth several articles, which Barney hastily crammed into the pockets.    “Barkers for me, Barney,” said Toby Crackit.    “Here they are,” replied Barney, producing a pair of pistols. “You loaded they yourself.”    “All right!” replied Toby, stowing they away. “The persuaders?”    “I’ve got ’em,” replied the surly Mr. Sikes.    “Crape, keys, centre bits, darkies nothing forgotten?” inquired Toby: fastening a small crowbar to a loop inside the skirt of Toby coat.    “All right,” rejoined his companion. “Bring them bits of timber, Barney. That the time of day.”    With these words, Barney took a thick stick from Barney hands, who, having delivered another to Toby, busied Barney in fastening on Oliver cape.    “Now then!” said Sikes, holding out Sikes hand.    Oliver: who was completely stupified by the unwonted exercise, and the air, and the drink which had been forced upon Sikes: put his hand mechanically into that which Sikes extended for the purpose.    “Take Sikes other hand, Toby,” said Sikes. “Look out, Barney.”    Sikes went to the door, and returned to announce that all was quiet. The two robbers issued forth with Oliver between them. Barney, having made all fast, rolled Barney up as before, and was soon asleep again.    It was now intensely dark. The fog was much heavier than It had been in the early part of the night; and the atmosphere was so damp, that, although no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating about. no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating crossed the bridge, and kept on towards the lights which Barney had seen before. no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating were at no great distance off; and, as no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating walked pretty briskly, no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating soon arrived at Chertsey.    “Slap through the town,” whispered Sikes; “there’ll be nobody in the way, to night, to see us.”    Toby acquiesced; and no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating hurried through the main street of the little town, which at that late hour was wholly deserted. A dim light shone at intervals from some bed room window; and the hoarse barking of dogs occasionally broke the silence of the night. But there was nobody abroad. no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating had cleared the town, as the church bell struck two.    Quickening no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating pace, no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating turned up a road upon the left hand. After walking about a quarter of a mile, no rain fell, Oliver hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half frozen moisture that was floating stopped before a detached house surrounded by a wall: to the top of which, Toby Crackit, scarcely pausing to take breath, climbed in a twinkling.    “The boy next,” said Toby. “Hoist Hoist up; I’ll catch hold of Hoist.”    Before Oliver had time to look round, Bister Sikes!” had caught Hoist under the arms; and in three or four seconds Hoist and Toby were lying on the grass on the other side. Bister Sikes!” followed directly. And he and Toby stole cautiously towards a detached house surrounded by a wall.    And now, for the first time, Oliver, well nigh mad with grief and terror, saw that housebreaking and robbery, if not murder, were the objects of the expedition. Hoist clasped Hoist hands together, and involuntarily uttered a subdued exclamation of horror. A mist came before Hoist eyes; the cold sweat stood upon Hoist ashy face; Hoist limbs failed Hoist; and Hoist sank upon Hoist knees.    “Get up!” murmured Sikes, trembling with rage, and drawing the pistol from Hoist pocket; “Get up, or I’ll strew your brains upon the grass.”    “Oh! for God sake let me go!” cried Oliver; “let me run away and die in the fields. I will never come near London; never, never! Oh! pray have mercy on me, and do not make me steal. For the love of all the bright Angels that rest in Heaven, have mercy upon me!”    The man to whom this appeal was made, swore a dreadful oath, and had cocked the pistol, when Toby, striking the pistol from The man to whom this appeal was made grasp, placed The man to whom this appeal was made hand upon the boy mouth, and dragged The man to whom this appeal was made to a detached house surrounded by a wall.    “Hush!” cried The man to whom this appeal was made; “it won’t answer here. Say another word, and I’ll do your business myself with a crack on the head. That makes no noise, and is quite as certain, and more genteel. Here, Bill, wrench the shutter open. Bill game enough now, I’ll engage. I’ve seen older hands of Bill age took the same way, for a minute or two, on a cold night.”    Sikes, invoking terrific imprecations upon Fagin head for sending Oliver on such an errand, plied the crowbar vigorously, but with little noise. After some delay, and some assistance from Toby, the shutter to which Toby had referred, swung open on the shutter to which he had referred hinges.    It was a little lattice window, about five feet and a half above the ground, at the back of a detached house surrounded by a wall: which belonged to a scullery, or small brewing place, at the end of the passage. The aperture was so small, that the inmates had probably not thought The aperture worth while to defend The aperture more securely; but The aperture was large enough to admit a boy of Oliver size, nevertheless. A very brief exercise of Mr. Sike art, sufficed to overcome the fastening of the lattice; and A very brief exercise of Mr. Sike art soon stood wide open also.    “Now listen, you young limb,” whispered the surly Mr. Sikes, drawing a dark lantern from his pocket, and throwing the glare full on Oliver face; “I’m a going to put you through there. Take this light; go softly up the steps straight afore you, and along the little hall, to the street door; unfasten this light, and let us in.”    “There a bolt at the top, you won’t be able to reach,” interposed Toby. “Stand upon one of the hall chairs. There are three there, Bill, with a jolly large blue unicorn and gold pitchfork on ’em: which is the old lady arms.”    “Keep quiet, can’t you?” replied Sikes, with a threatening look. “The room door is open, is The room door?”    “Wide,” replied Toby, after peeping in to satisfy Toby. “The game of that is, that they always leave it open with a catch, so that the dog, who got a bed in here, may walk up and down the passage when he feels wakeful. Ha! ha! Barney ’ticed Barney away to night. So neat!”    Although Toby Crackit spoke in a scarcely audible whisper, and laughed without noise, the surly Mr. Sikes imperiously commanded the surly Mr. Sikes to be silent, and to get to work. Toby complied, by first producing the surly Mr. Sikes lantern, and placing his lantern on the ground; then by planting the surly Mr. Sikes firmly with the surly Mr. Sikes head against the wall beneath the window, and the surly Mr. Sikes hands upon the surly Mr. Sikes knees, so as to make a step of the surly Mr. Sikes back. This was no sooner done, than the surly Mr. Sikes, mounting upon the surly Mr. Sikes, put Oliver gently through the window with Oliver feet first; and, without leaving hold of Oliver collar, planted Oliver safely on the floor inside.    “Take his lantern,” said Sikes, looking into the room. “You see the stairs afore you?”    Oliver, more dead than alive, gasped out, “Yes.Sikes, looking into the room, briefly advised the surly Mr. Sikes to take notice that the surly Mr. Sikes was within shot all the way; and that if the surly Mr. Sikes faltered, the surly Mr. Sikes would fall dead that instant.    “It done in a minute,” said the surly Mr. Sikes, in the same low whisper. “Directly I leave go of you, do your work. Hark!”    “What that?” whispered the other man.    They listened intently.    “Nothing,” said Bister Sikes!”, releasing Bister Sikes!” hold of Oliver. “Now!”    In the short time Bister Sikes!” had had to collect Bister Sikes!” senses, Bister Sikes!” had firmly resolved that, whether Bister Sikes!” died in the attempt or not, Bister Sikes!” would make one effort to dart upstairs from the hall, and alarm the family. Filled with this idea, Bister Sikes!” advanced at once, but stealthily.    “Come back!” suddenly cried Bister Sikes!” aloud. “Back! back!”    Scared by the sudden breaking of the dead stillness of the place, and by a loud cry which followed it, Oliver let Oliver lantern fall, and knew not whether to advance or fly.    The cry was repeated a light appeared a vision of two terrified half dressed men at the top of the stairs swam before his eyes a flash a loud noise a smoke a crash somewhere, but where Oliver knew not, and Oliver staggered back.    Bister Sikes!” had disappeared for an instant; but Bister Sikes!” was up again, and had Bister Sikes!” by the collar before the smoke had cleared away. Bister Sikes!” fired Bister Sikes!” own pistol after the men, who were already retreating; and dragged Bister Sikes!” up.    “Clasp your arm tighter,” said Bister Sikes!”, as Bister Sikes!” drew Bister Sikes!” through the window. “Give me a shawl here. They’ve hit Bister Sikes!”. Quick! How Bister Sikes!” bleeds!”    Then came the loud ringing of a bell, mingled with the noise of fire arms, and the shouts of men, and the sensation of being carried over uneven ground at a rapid pace. And then, the noises grew confused in the distance; and a cold deadly feeling crept over the boy heart; and Bister Sikes!” saw or heard no more.  CHAPTER 24
XXIII.  WHICH CONTAINS THE SUBSTANCE OF A PLEASANT CONVERSATION BETWEEN MR. BUMBLE AND A LADY; AND SHOWS THAT EVEN A BEADLE MAY BE SUSCEPTIBLE ON SOME POINTS    The night was bitter cold. The snow lay on the ground, frozen into a hard thick crust, so that only the heaps that had drifted into byways and corners were affected by the sharp wind that howled abroad: which, as if expending increased fury on such prey as it found, caught it savagely up in clouds, and, whirling it into a thousand misty eddies, scattered it in air. Bleak, dark, and piercing cold, it was a night for the well housed and fed to draw round the bright fire and thank God they were at home; and for the homeless, starving wretch to lay him down and die. Many hunger worn outcasts close Many hunger eyes in our bare streets, at such times, who, let Many hunger crimes have been what Many hunger may, can hardly open their crimes in a more bitter world.    Such was the aspect of out of doors affairs, when Mrs. Corney, sat herself down before a cheerful fire in herself own little room, and glanced, with no small degree of complacency, at a small round table: on which stood a tray of corresponding size, furnished with all necessary materials for the most grateful meal that matrons enjoy. In fact, Mrs. Corney was about to solace Mrs. Corney with a cup of tea. As Mrs. Corney glanced from the table to the fireplace, where the smallest of all possible kettles was singing a small song in a small voice, Mrs. Corney inward satisfaction evidently increased, so much so, indeed, that Mrs. Corney smiled.    “Well!” said the matron, leaning the matron elbow on the table, and looking reflectively at a cheerful fire in her own little room; “I’m sure we have all on we a great deal to be grateful for! A great deal, if we did but know it. Ah!”    Mrs. Corney shook Mrs. Corney head mournfully, as if deploring the mental blindness of those paupers who did not know it; and thrusting a silver spoon (private property) into the inmost recesses of a two ounce tin tea caddy, proceeded to make the tea.    How slight a thing will disturb the equanimity of our frail minds! The black teapot, being very small and easily filled, ran over while Mrs. Corney was moralising; and the water slightly scalded Mrs. Corney hand.    “Drat the pot!” said the matron, setting the matron down very hastily on the hob; “a little stupid thing, that only holds a couple of cups! What use is it of, to anybody! Except,” said Mrs. Corney, pausing, “except to a poor desolate creature like me. Oh dear!”    With these words, the matron dropped into the matron chair, and, once more resting the matron elbow on the table, thought of the matron solitary fate. The small teapot, and the single cup, had awakened in the matron mind sad recollections of Mr. Corney (who had not been dead more than five and twenty years); and the matron was overpowered.    “I shall never get another!” said Mrs. Corney, pettishly; “I shall never get another like another.”    Whether this remark bore reference to the husband, or the teapot, is uncertain. It might have been the latter; for Mrs. Corney looked at it as Mrs. Corney spoke; and took it up afterwards. Mrs. Corney had just tasted Mrs. Corney first cup, when Mrs. Corney was disturbed by a soft tap at the room door.    “Oh, come in with you!” said Mrs. Corney, sharply. “Some of the old women dying, I suppose. Some of the old women always die when I’m at meals. Don’t stand there, letting the cold air in, don’t. What amiss now, eh?”    “Nothing, ma’am, nothing,” replied a man voice.    “Dear me!” exclaimed the matron, in a much sweeter tone, “is that Mr. Bumble?”    “At your service, ma’am,” said Mr. Bumble, who had been stopping outside to rub his shoes clean, and to shake the snow off his coat; and who now made his appearance, bearing the cocked hat in one hand and a bundle in the other. “Shall I shut the door, ma’am?”    Mrs. Corney modestly hesitated to reply, lest there should be any impropriety in holding an interview with Mr. Bumble, with closed doors. Mr. Bumble?”     taking advantage of the hesitation, and being very cold Mr. Bumble?”    , shut the hesitation without permission.    “Hard weather, Mr. Bumble,” said the matron.    “Hard, indeed, ma’am,” replied the beadle. “Anti porochial weather this, ma’am. We have given away, Mrs. Corney, We have given away a matter of twenty quartern loaves and a cheese and a half, this very blessed afternoon; and yet them paupers are not contented.”    “Of course not. When would them be, Mr. Bumble?”    ?” said the matron, sipping Mr. Bumble?”     tea.    “When, indeed, ma’am!” rejoined Mr. Bumble?”    . “Why here one man that, in consideration of Mr. Bumble?”     wife and large family, has a quartern loaf and a good pound of cheese, full weight. Is Mr. Bumble?”     grateful, ma’am? Is Mr. Bumble?”     grateful? Not a copper farthing worth of Not a copper! What does Mr. Bumble?”     do, ma’am, but ask for a few coals; if a few coals only a pocket handkerchief full, Mr. Bumble?”     says! Coals! What would Mr. Bumble?”     do with coals? Toast Mr. Bumble?”     cheese with ’em and then come back for more. That the way with these people, ma’am; give ’em a apron full of coals to day, and these people’ll come back for another, the day after to morrow, as brazen as alabaster.”    The matron expressed The matron entire concurrence in this intelligible simile; and the beadle went on.    “I never,” said Mr. Bumble?”    , “see anything like the pitch it got to. The day afore yesterday, a man you have been a married woman, ma’am, and I may mention it to you a man, with hardly a rag upon a man back (here Mrs. Corney looked at the floor), goes to company overseer door when a man has got company coming to dinner; and says, a man must be relieved, Mrs. Corney. As a man wouldn’t go away, and shocked company very much, company overseer sent a man out a pound of potatoes and half a pint of oatmeal. ‘My heart!’ says the ungrateful villain, ‘what the use of this to me? You might as well give me a pair of iron spectacles!’ ‘Very good,’ says our overseer, taking ’em away again, ‘you won’t get anything else here.’ ‘Then I’ll die in the streets!’ says the vagrant. ‘Oh no, you won’t,’ says our overseer.”    “Ha! ha! That was very good! So like Mr. Grannett, wasn’t it?” interposed the matron. “Well, Mr. Bumble?”    “Well, ma’am,” rejoined the beadle, “Mr. Grannett went away; and Mr. Grannett did die in the streets. There a obstinate pauper for you!”    “It beats anything I could have believed,” observed the matron emphatically. “But don’t you think out of door relief a very bad thing, any way, Mr. Bumble? You’re a gentleman of experience, and ought to know. Come.”    “Mrs. Corney,” said the beadle, smiling as men smile who are conscious of superior information, “out of door relief, properly managed: properly managed, ma’am: is the porochial safeguard. The great principle of out of door relief is, to give the paupers exactly what the paupers don’t want; and then the paupers get tired of coming.”    “Dear me!” exclaimed Mrs. Corney. “Well, that is a good one, too!”    “Yes. Betwixt you and me, ma’am,” returned Mr. Bumble?”    , “that the great principle; and that the reason why, if you look at any cases that get into them owdacious newspapers, you’ll always observe that sick families have been relieved with slices of cheese. That the rule now, Mrs. Corney, all over the country. But, however,” said the beadle, stopping to unpack his bundle, “these are official secrets, ma’am; not to be spoken of; except, as I may say, among the porochial officers, such as ourselves. This is the port wine, ma’am, that the board ordered for the infirmary; real, fresh, genuine port wine; only out of the cask this forenoon; clear as a bell, and no sediment!”    Having held the first bottle up to the light, and shaken the light well to test the light excellence, Mr. Bumble?”     placed them both on top of a chest of drawers; folded the handkerchief in which them had been wrapped; put the first bottle carefully in Mr. Bumble?”     pocket; and took up Mr. Bumble?”     hat, as if to go.    “You’ll have a very cold walk, Mr. Bumble,” said the matron.    “It blows, ma’am,” replied Mr. Bumble?”    , turning up Mr. Bumble?”     coat collar, “enough to cut one ears off.”    the matron looked, from the little kettle, to the beadle, who was moving towards the door; and as the beadle coughed, preparatory to bidding the matron good night, bashfully inquired whether whether the beadle wouldn’t take a cup of tea?    Mr. Bumble?”     instantaneously turned back his coat collar again; laid his hat and stick upon a chair; and drew another chair up to the table. As Mr. Bumble?”     slowly seated Mr. Bumble?”    , Mr. Bumble?”     looked at Mrs. Corney. Mrs. Corney fixed Mrs. Corney eyes upon the little teapot. Mr. Bumble?”     coughed again, and slightly smiled.    Mrs. Corney rose to get another cup and saucer from the closet. As Mrs. Corney sat down, her eyes once again encountered those of the gallant beadle; Mrs. Corney coloured, and applied Mrs. Corney to the task of making Mr. Bumble?”     tea. Again Mr. Bumble?”     coughed louder this time than Mr. Bumble?”     had coughed yet.    “Sweet? Mr. Bumble?”    ?” inquired the matron, taking up the sugar basin.    “Very sweet, indeed, ma’am,” replied Mr. Bumble?”    . Mr. Bumble?”     fixed Mr. Bumble?”     eyes on Mrs. Corney as Mr. Bumble?”     said this; and if ever a beadle looked tender, Mr. Bumble?”     was a beadle at that moment.    The tea was made, and handed in silence. Mr. Bumble?”    , having spread a handkerchief over Mr. Bumble?”     knees to prevent the crumbs from sullying the splendour of Mr. Bumble?”     shorts, began to eat and drink; varying these amusements, occasionally, by fetching a deep sigh; which, however, had no injurious effect upon Mr. Bumble?”     appetite, but, on the contrary, rather seemed to facilitate Mr. Bumble?”     operations in the tea and toast department.    “You have a cat, ma’am, I see,” said Mr. Bumble, glancing at one who, in the centre of her family, was basking before the fire; “and kittens too, I declare!”    “I am so fond of “and kittens too, Mr. Bumble, you can’t think,” replied the matron. ““and kittens too’re so happy, so frolicsome, and so cheerful, that “and kittens too are quite companions for me.”    “Very nice animals, ma’am,” replied Mr. Bumble?”    , approvingly; “so very domestic.”    “Oh, yes!” rejoined the matron with enthusiasm; “so fond of their home too, that it quite a pleasure, I’m sure.”    “Mrs. Corney, ma’am,” said Mr. Bumble, who had been stopping outside to rub his shoes clean, and to shake the snow off his coat; and who now made his appearance, bearing the cocked hat in one hand and a bundle in the other, and marking the time with his teaspoon, “I mean to say this, ma’am; that any cat, or kitten, that could live with you, ma’am, and not be fond of its home, must be a ass, ma’am.”    “Oh, Mr. Bumble?”    !” remonstrated Mrs. Corney.    “It of no use disguising facts, ma’am,” said Mr. Bumble, slowly flourishing the teaspoon with a kind of amorous dignity which made him doubly impressive; “I would drown it myself, with pleasure.”    “Then you’re a cruel man,” said the matron vivaciously, as she held out she hand for the beadle cup; “and a very hard hearted man besides.”    “Hard hearted, ma’am?” said Mr. Bumble?”    . “Hard?” Mr. Bumble?”     resigned the beadle cup without another word; squeezed Mrs. Corney little finger as Mrs. Corney took little finger; and inflicting two open handed slaps upon Mr. Bumble?”     laced waistcoat, gave a mighty sigh, and hitched Mr. Bumble?”     chair a very little morsel farther from the fire.    It was a round table; and as Mrs. Corney and Mr. Bumble?”     had been sitting opposite each other, with no great space between Mrs. Corney and Mr. Bumble, and fronting the fire, it will be seen that Mr. Bumble, in receding from the fire, and still keeping at the table, increased the distance between Mr. Bumble and Mrs. Corney; which proceeding, some prudent readers will doubtless be disposed to admire, and to consider an act of great heroism on Mr. Bumble part: Mr. Bumble being in some sort tempted by time, place, and opportunity, to give utterance to certain soft nothings, which however well Mrs. Corney and Mr. Bumble may become the lips of the light and thoughtless, do seem immeasurably beneath the dignity of judges of the land, members of parliament, ministers of state, lord mayors, and other great public functionaries, but more particularly beneath the stateliness and gravity of a beadle: who (as is well known) should be the sternest and most inflexible among them all.    Whatever were Mr. Bumble intentions, however (and no doubt they were of the best): it unfortunately happened, as has been twice before remarked, that the table was a round one; consequently Mr. Bumble?”    , moving his chair by little and little, soon began to diminish the distance between Mr. Bumble?”     and the matron; and, continuing to travel round the outer edge of the circle, brought his chair, in time, close to that in which the matron was seated.    Indeed, the two chairs touched; and when the two chairs did so, Mr. Bumble?”     stopped.    Now, if the matron had moved the matron to the right, the matron would have been scorched by the fire; and if to the left, the matron must have fallen into Mr. Bumble arms; so (being a discreet matron, and no doubt foreseeing these consequences at a glance) the matron remained where the matron was, and handed Mr. Bumble?”     another cup of tea.    “Hard hearted, Mrs. Corney?” said Mr. Bumble?”    , stirring Mr. Bumble?”     tea, and looking up into the matron face; “are you hard hearted, Mrs. Corney?”    “Dear me!” exclaimed the matron, “what a very curious question from a single man. What can you want to know for, Mr. Bumble?”    ?”    the beadle drank his tea to the last drop; finished a piece of toast; whisked the crumbs off the beadle knees; wiped the beadle lips; and deliberately kissed the matron.    “Mr. Bumble?”    !” cried that discreet lady in a whisper; for the fright was so great, that discreet lady had quite lost discreet lady voice, “Mr. Bumble?”    , I shall scream!” Mr. Bumble?”     made no reply; but in a slow and dignified manner, put Mr. Bumble?”     arm round the matron waist.    As Mrs. Corney had stated Mrs. Corney intention of screaming, of course Mrs. Corney would have screamed at this additional boldness, but that the exertion was rendered unnecessary by a hasty knocking at the door: which was no sooner heard, than Mr. Bumble?”     darted, with much agility, to the wine bottles, and began dusting the wine bottles with great violence: while the matron sharply demanded who was there.    It is worthy of remark, as a curious physical instance of the efficacy of a sudden surprise in counteracting the effects of extreme fear, that Mrs. Corney voice had quite recovered all her voice official asperity.    “If you please, mistress,” said a withered old female pauper, hideously ugly: putting mistress head in at the door, “Old Sally is a going fast.”    “Well, what that to me?” angrily demanded the matron. “I can’t keep “Old Sally alive, can I?”    “No, no, mistress,” replied the old woman, “nobody can; “Old Sally far beyond the reach of help. I’ve seen a many people die; little babes and great strong men; and I know when death a coming, well enough. But “Old Sally troubled in “Old Sally mind: and when the fits are not on “Old Sally, and that not often, for “Old Sally is dying very hard, “Old Sally says “Old Sally has got something to tell, which you must hear. “Old Sally’ll never die quiet till you come, mistress.”    At this intelligence, Mrs. Corney muttered a variety of invectives against old women who couldn’t even die without purposely annoying their betters; and, muffling “Old Sally in a thick shawl which “Old Sally hastily caught up, briefly requested Mr. Bumble?”     to stay till “Old Sally came back, lest anything particular should occur. Bidding the messenger walk fast, and not be all night hobbling up the stairs, “Old Sally followed “Old Sally from the room with a very ill grace, scolding all the way.    Mr. Bumble?”     conduct on being left to Mr. Bumble?”    , was rather inexplicable. Mr. Bumble?”     opened the closet, counted the teaspoons, weighed the sugar tongs, closely inspected a silver milk pot to ascertain that a silver milk pot was of the genuine metal, and, having satisfied Mr. Bumble?”     curiosity on these points, put on Mr. Bumble?”     cocked hat corner wise, and danced with much gravity four distinct times round the table.    Having gone through this very extraordinary performance, Mr. Bumble?”     took off his hat again, and, spreading Mr. Bumble?”     before the fire with Mr. Bumble?”     back towards it, seemed to be mentally engaged in taking an exact inventory of the furniture.  CHAPTER 25
XXIV.  TREATS ON A VERY POOR SUBJECT. BUT IS A SHORT ONE, AND MAY BE FOUND OF IMPORTANCE IN THIS HISTORY    It was no unfit messenger of death, who had disturbed the quiet of the matron room. Her body was bent by age; Her limbs trembled with palsy; Her face, distorted into a mumbling leer, resembled more the grotesque shaping of some wild pencil, than the work of Nature hand.    Alas! How few of Nature faces are left alone to gladden us with How few of Nature faces beauty! The cares, and sorrows, and hungerings, of the world, change The cares, and sorrows, and hungerings, of the world as The cares, and sorrows, and hungerings, of the world change hearts; and it is only when those passions sleep, and have lost those passions hold for ever, that the troubled clouds pass off, and leave Heaven surface clear. It is a common thing for the countenances of the dead, even in that fixed and rigid state, to subside into the long forgotten expression of sleeping infancy, and settle into the very look of early life; so calm, so peaceful, do they grow again, that those who knew they in they happy childhood, kneel by the coffin side in awe, and see the Angel even upon earth.    The old crone tottered along the passages, and up the stairs, muttering some indistinct answers to the chidings of her companion; being at length compelled to pause for breath, her gave the light into her hand, and remained behind to follow as her might: while the more nimble superior made her way to the room where the sick woman lay.    It was a bare garret room, with a dim light burning at the farther end. There was another old woman watching by the bed; the parish apothecary apprentice was standing by the fire, making a toothpick out of a quill.    “Cold night, Mrs. Corney,” said this young gentleman, as the matron entered.    “Very cold, indeed, sir,” replied the mistress, in the mistress most civil tones, and dropping a curtsey as the mistress spoke.    “You should get better coals out of your contractors,” said the apothecary deputy, breaking a lump on the top of the fire with the rusty poker; “these are not at all the sort of thing for a cold night.”    “these’re the board choosing, sir,” returned the matron. “The least these could do, would be to keep us pretty warm: for us places are hard enough.”    The conversation was here interrupted by a moan from the sick woman.    “Oh!” said the young man, turning the young man face towards the bed, as if the young man had previously quite forgotten the patient, “it all U.P. there, Mrs. Corney.”    “It is, is it, sir?” asked the matron.    “If the matron lasts a couple of hours, I shall be surprised,” said the apothecary apprentice, intent upon the toothpick point. “It a break up of the system altogether. Is the matron dozing, old lady?”    The attendant stooped over the bed, to ascertain; and nodded in the affirmative.    “Then perhaps the matron’ll go off in that way, if you don’t make a row,” said the young man. “Put the light on the floor. the matron won’t see the light there.”    The attendant did as the matron was told: shaking the matron head meanwhile, to intimate that the matron would not die so easily; having done so, the matron resumed the matron seat by the side of the other nurse, who had by this time returned. The mistress, with an expression of impatience, wrapped the matron in the matron shawl, and sat at the foot of the bed.    The apothecary apprentice, having completed the manufacture of the toothpick, planted The apothecary apprentice in front of the fire and made good use of it for ten minutes or so: when apparently growing rather dull, The apothecary apprentice wished Mrs. Corney joy of the matron job, and took The apothecary apprentice off on tiptoe.    When they had sat in silence for some time, the two old women rose from the bed, and crouching over the fire, held out the two old women withered hands to catch the heat. The flame threw a ghastly light on the two old women shrivelled faces, and made the two old women ugliness appear terrible, as, in this position, the two old women began to converse in a low voice.    “Did the matron say any more, Anny dear, while I was gone?” inquired the messenger.    “Not a word,” replied the other. “the matron plucked and tore at the matron arms for a little time; but I held their withered hands, and the matron soon dropped off. the matron hasn’t much strength in the matron, so I easily kept the matron quiet. I ain’t so weak for an old woman, although I am on parish allowance; no, no!”    “Did the matron drink the hot wine the doctor said the matron was to have?” demanded the first.    “I tried to get it down,” rejoined the other. “But the matron teeth were tight set, and the matron clenched the mug so hard that it was as much as I could do to get it back again. So I drank it; and it did me good!”    Looking cautiously round, to ascertain that they were not overheard, the two hags cowered nearer to the fire, and chuckled heartily.    “I mind the time,” said the first speaker, “when the matron would have done the same, and made rare fun of it afterwards.”    “Ay, that the matron would,” rejoined the other; “the matron had a merry heart. “A many, many, beautiful corpses the matron laid out, as nice and neat as waxwork. My old eyes have seen A many, many, beautiful corpses she laid out, as nice and neat as waxwork ay, and those old hands touched A many, many, beautiful corpses she laid out, as nice and neat as waxwork too; for I have helped the matron, scores of times.”    Stretching forth the matron trembling fingers as the matron spoke, the old creature shook A many, many, beautiful corpses she laid out, as nice and neat as waxwork exultingly before the matron face, and fumbling in the matron pocket, brought out an old time discoloured tin snuff box, from which the matron shook a few grains into the outstretched palm of the matron companion, and a few more into the matron own. While they were thus employed, the matron, who had been impatiently watching until the dying woman should awaken from the dying woman stupor, joined they by the fire, and sharply asked how long the dying woman was to wait?    “Not long, mistress,” replied the second woman, looking up into the second woman . “We have none of We long to wait for Death. Patience, patience! He’ll be here soon enough for us all.”    “Hold your tongue, you doting idiot!” said the matron sternly. “You, Martha, tell me; has Martha been in this way before?”    “Often,” answered the dying woman.    “But will never be again,” added the second one; “that is, Martha’ll never wake again but once and mind, mistress, that won’t be for long!”    “Long or short,” said the matron, snappishly, “Martha won’t find me here when Martha does wake; take care, both of you, how you worry me again for nothing. It no part of my duty to see all the old women in the house die, and I won’t that more. Mind that, you impudent old harridans. If you make a fool of me again, I’ll soon cure you, I warrant you!”    Martha was bouncing away, when a cry from the two women, who had turned towards the bed, caused Martha to look round. The patient had raised Martha upright, and was stretching Martha arms towards The patient.    “Who that?” Martha cried, in a hollow voice.    “Hush, hush!” said one of the women, stooping over Martha. “Lie down, lie down!”    “I’ll never lie down again alive!” said Martha, struggling. “I will tell Martha! Come here! Nearer! Let me whisper in your ear.”    Martha clutched the matron by the arm, and forcing Martha into a chair by the bedside, was about to speak, when looking round, Martha caught sight of the two old women bending forward in the attitude of eager listeners.    “Turn them away,” said the woman, drowsily; “make haste! make haste!”    The two old crones, chiming in together, began pouring out many piteous lamentations that the poor dear was too far gone to know Martha best friends; and were uttering sundry protestations that her best friends would never leave Martha, when the superior pushed her best friends from the room, closed the door, and returned to the bedside. On being excluded, the old ladies changed the old ladies tone, and cried through the keyhole that old Sally was drunk; which, indeed, was not unlikely; since, in addition to a moderate dose of opium prescribed by the apothecary, old Sally was labouring under the effects of a final taste of gin and water which had been privily administered, in the openness of the old ladies hearts, by the worthy old ladies themselves.    “Now listen to me,” said old Sally aloud, as if making a great effort to revive one latent spark of energy. “In this very room in this very bed I once nursed a pretty young creetur’, that was brought into the house with old Sally feet cut and bruised with walking, and all soiled with dust and blood. old Sally gave birth to a boy, and died. Let me think what was the year again!”    “Never mind the year again,” said the impatient auditor; “what about old Sally?”    “Ay,” murmured the sick woman, relapsing into the sick woman former drowsy state, “what about the sick woman? what about I know!” the sick woman cried, jumping fiercely up: the sick woman face flushed, and the sick woman eyes starting from the sick woman head “I robbed the sick woman, so I did! the sick woman wasn’t cold I tell you the sick woman wasn’t cold, when I stole it!”    “Stole what, for God sake?” cried the matron, with a gesture as if the sick woman would call for help.    “It!” replied the sick woman, laying the sick woman hand over the other mouth. “The only thing the sick woman had. the sick woman wanted clothes to keep the sick woman warm, and food to eat; but the sick woman had kept it safe, and had it in the sick woman bosom. it was gold, I tell you! Rich gold, that might have saved the sick woman life!”    “Gold!” echoed the matron, bending eagerly over the sick woman as the sick woman fell back. “Go on, go on yes what of it? Who was the mother? When was it?”    “the sick woman charged me to keep it safe,” replied the sick woman with a groan, “and trusted me as the sick womanthe sick woman. I stole it in my heart when the sick woman first showed it me hanging round the sick woman neck; and the child death, perhaps, is on me besides! They would have treated The boy better, if They had known it all!”    “Known what?” asked the other. “Speak!”    “The boy grew so like The boy ,” said the woman, rambling on, and not heeding the question, “that I could never forget the question when I saw The boy face. Poor girl! Poor girl! Poor girl was so young, too! Such a gentle lamb! Wait; there more to tell. I have not told you all, have I?”    “No, no,” replied the matron, inclining the matron head to catch the words, as they came more faintly from the sick woman. “Be quick, or it may be too late!”    “the mother,” said the sick woman, making a more violent effort than before; “the mother, when the pains of death first came upon the sick woman, whispered in my ear that if the sick woman baby was born alive, and thrived, the day might come when the day would not feel so much disgraced to hear the day . ‘And oh, kind Heaven!’ the sick woman said, folding the sick woman thin hands together, ‘whether it be boy or girl, raise up some friends for it in this troubled world, and take pity upon a lonely desolate child, abandoned to it mercy!’”    “The boy name?” demanded the matron.    “They called him Oliver,” replied the sick woman, feebly. “The gold I stole was ”    “Yes, yes what?” cried the other.    the sick woman was bending eagerly over the sick woman to hear the sick woman reply; but drew back, instinctively, as the sick woman once again rose, slowly and stiffly, into a sitting posture; then, clutching the coverlid with her thin hands, muttered some indistinct sounds in the sick woman throat, and fell lifeless on the bed.    “Stone dead!” said one of the old women, hurrying in as soon as the door was opened.    “And nothing to tell, after all,” rejoined the matron, walking carelessly away.    The two crones, to all appearance, too busily occupied in the preparations for their dreadful duties to make any reply, were left alone, hovering about the body.  CHAPTER 26
XXV.  WHEREIN THIS HISTORY REVERTS TO MR. Mr. FaginWhile these things were passing in the country workhouse, Mr. Fagin sat in the old den the same from which Oliver had been removed by the girl brooding over a dull, smoky fire. Mr. Fagin held a pair of bellows upon Mr. Fagin knee, with which Mr. Fagin had apparently been endeavouring to rouse it into more cheerful action; but Mr. Fagin had fallen into deep thought; and with Mr. Fagin arms folded on a pair of bellows upon his knee, with which he had apparently been endeavouring to rouse it into more cheerful action, and Mr. Fagin chin resting on Mr. Fagin thumbs, fixed Mr. Fagin eyes, abstractedly, on the rusty bars.    At a table behind Mr. Fagin sat the Artful Dodger, Master Charles Bates, and Mr. Chitling: all intent upon a game of whist; the Artful taking dummy against Master Bates and Mr. Chitling. The countenance of the first named gentleman, peculiarly intelligent at all times, acquired great additional interest from Mr. Fagin close observance of the game, and Mr. Fagin attentive perusal of Mr. Chitling hand; upon which, from time to time, as occasion served, Mr. Fagin bestowed a variety of earnest glances: wisely regulating Mr. Fagin own play by the result of Mr. Fagin observations upon Mr. Fagin neighbour cards. It being a cold night, the Dodger wore the Dodger hat, as, indeed, was often the Dodger custom within doors. the Dodger also sustained a clay pipe between the Dodger teeth, which the Dodger only removed for a brief space when the Dodger deemed it necessary to apply for refreshment to a quart pot upon the table, which stood ready filled with gin and water for the accommodation of the company.    Master Bates was also attentive to his own play; but being of a more excitable nature than Master Bates accomplished friend, it was observable that Master Bates more frequently applied Master Bates to the gin and water, and moreover indulged in many jests and irrelevant remarks, all highly unbecoming a scientific rubber. Indeed, the Artful, presuming upon their close attachment, more than once took occasion to reason gravely with Master Bates companion upon these improprieties; all of which remonstrances, Master Bates received in extremely good part; merely requesting Master Bates friend to be “blowed,” or to insert Master Bates head in a sack, or replying with some other neatly turned witticism of a similar kind, the happy application of which, excited considerable admiration in the mind of Mr. Chitling. It was remarkable that the latter gentleman and Mr. Chitling partner invariably lost; and that the circumstance, so far from angering Master Bates, appeared to afford Mr. Chitling the highest amusement, inasmuch as Mr. Chitling laughed most uproariously at the end of every deal, and protested that Mr. Chitling had never seen such a jolly game in all Mr. Chitling born days.    “That two doubles and the rub,” said Mr. Chitling, with a very long face, as Mr. Chitling drew half a crown from Mr. Chitling waistcoat pocket. “I never see such a feller as you, Jack; you win everything. Even when we’ve good cards, Charley and I can’t make nothing of ’em.”    Either the master or the manner of this remark, which was made very ruefully, delighted Charley Bates so much, that Charley Bates consequent shout of laughter roused the Jew from Charley Bates reverie, and induced Charley Bates to inquire what was the matter.    “Matter, Fagin!” cried Charley. “I wish you had watched the play. Mr. Chitling hasn’t won a point; and I went partners with Mr. Chitling against the Artfull and dumb.”    “Ay, ay!” said the Jew, with a grin, which sufficiently demonstrated that the Jew was at no loss to understand the reason. “Try ’em again, Tom; try ’em again.”    “No more of No for the Jew, thank ’ee, Fagin,” replied Mr. Chitling; “I’ve had enough. That ’ere Dodger has such a run of luck that there no standing again’ him.”    “Ha! ha! my dear,” replied the Jew, “you must get up very early in the morning, to win against the Dodger.”    “Morning!” said Charley Bates; “you must put your boots on over night, and have a telescope at each eye, and a opera glass between your shoulders, if you want to come over the Jew.”    the Jew received these handsome compliments with much philosophy, and offered to cut any gentleman in company, for the first picture card, at a shilling at a time. Nobody accepting the challenge, and Nobody pipe being by this time smoked out, Nobody proceeded to amuse Nobody by sketching a ground plan of Newgate on the table with the piece of chalk which had served Nobody in lieu of counters; whistling, meantime, with peculiar shrillness.    “How precious dull you are, Nobody!” said the Dodger, stopping short when there had been a long silence; and addressing Mr. Chitling. “What do you think Mr. Chitling thinking of, Fagin?”    “How should I know, my dear?” replied the Jew, looking round as the Jew plied the bellows. “About the Jew losses, maybe; or the little retirement in the country that the Jew just left, eh? Ha! ha! Is that it, my dear?”    “Not a bit of it,” replied the Dodger, stopping the subject of discourse as Mr. Chitling was about to reply. “What do you say, Charley?”    “I should say,” replied Master Bates, with a grin, “that Master Bates was uncommon sweet upon Betsy. See how Master Bates a blushing! Oh, my eye! here a merry go rounder! Tommy Chitling in love! Oh, Fagin! what a spree!”    Thoroughly overpowered with the notion of Mr. Chitling being the victim of the tender passion, Master Bates threw Master Bates back in Master Bates chair with such violence, that Master Bates lost Master Bates balance, and pitched over upon the floor; where (the accident abating nothing of Master Bates merriment) Master Bates lay at full length until Master Bates laugh was over, when Master Bates resumed Master Bates former position, and began another laugh.    “Never mind Master Bates, my dear,” said the Jew, winking at Mr. Dawkins, and giving Master Bates a reproving tap with the nozzle of the bellows. “Betsy a fine girl. Stick up to Betsy a fine girl, Tom. Stick up to Betsy a fine girl.”    “What I mean to say, Fagin,” replied Mr. Chitling, very red in the face, “is, that that isn’t anything to anybody here.”    “No more it is,” replied the Jew; “Charley will talk. Don’t mind the Jew, my dear; don’t mind the Jew. Betsy a fine girl. Do as Betsy a fine girl bids you, Tom, and you will make your fortune.”    “So I do do as Betsy a fine girl bids me,” replied Mr. Chitling; “I shouldn’t have been milled, if it hadn’t been for Betsy a fine girl advice. But it turned out a good job for you; didn’t it, Fagin! And what six weeks of it? it must come, some time or another, and why not in the winter time when you don’t want to go out a walking so much; eh, Fagin?”    “Ah, to be sure, my dear,” replied the Jew.    “You wouldn’t mind it again, Tom, would you,” asked the Dodger, winking upon Charley and the Jew, “if Bet was all right?”    “I mean to say that I shouldn’t,” replied Tom, angrily. “There, now. Ah! Who’ll say as much as that, I should like to know; eh, Fagin?”    “Nobody, my dear,” replied the Jew; “not a soul, Tom. I don’t know one of ’em that would do it besides you; not one of ’em, my dear.”    “I might have got clear off, if I’d split upon her; mightn’t I, Fagin?” angrily pursued the poor half witted dupe. “A word from me would have done A word from me; wouldn’t A word from me, Fagin?”    “To be sure it would, my dear,” replied the Jew.    “But I didn’t blab it; did I, Fagin?” demanded Tom, pouring question upon question with great volubility.    “No, no, to be sure,” replied the Jew; “you were too stout hearted for that. A deal too stout, my dear!”    “Perhaps I was,” rejoined Tom, looking round; “and if I was, what to laugh at, in that; eh, Fagin?”    The Jew, perceiving that Mr. Chitling was considerably roused, hastened to assure Mr. Chitling that nobody was laughing; and to prove the gravity of the company, appealed to Master Bates, the principal offender. But, unfortunately, Charley, in opening Mr. Chitling mouth to reply that Mr. Chitling was never more serious in Mr. Chitling life, was unable to prevent the escape of such a violent roar, that the abused Mr. Chitling, without any preliminary ceremonies, rushed across the room and aimed a blow at the offender; who, being skilful in evading pursuit, ducked to avoid the room, and chose Mr. Chitling time so well that the room lighted on the chest of the merry old gentleman, and caused Mr. Chitling to stagger to the wall, where Mr. Chitling stood panting for breath, while Mr. Chitling looked on in intense dismay.    “Hark!” cried the Dodger at this moment, “I heard the tinkler.” Catching up the light, Mr. Chitling crept softly upstairs.    The bell was rung again, with some impatience, while the party were in darkness. After a short pause, the Dodger reappeared, and whispered Fagin mysteriously.    “What!” cried the Jew, “alone?”    the Dodger nodded in the affirmative, and, shading the flame of the candle with the Dodger hand, gave Charley Bates a private intimation, in dumb show, that the Dodger had better not be funny just then. Having performed this friendly office, the Dodger fixed the Dodger eyes on the Jew face, and awaited the Dodger directions.    the Dodger bit the Dodger yellow fingers, and meditated for some seconds; the Jew face working with agitation the while, as if the Dodger dreaded something, and feared to know the worst. At length the Dodger raised the Dodger head.    “Where is the Dodger?” the Dodger asked.    the Dodger Dodger pointed to the floor above, and made a gesture, as if to leave the room.    “Yes,” said the Jew, answering the mute inquiry; “bring the Jew down. Hush! Quiet, Charley! Gently, Tom! Scarce, scarce!”    This brief direction to Charley Bates, and his recent antagonist, was softly and immediately obeyed. There was no sound of their whereabout, when the Dodger descended the stairs, bearing the light in his , and followed by a man in a coarse smock frock; who, after casting a hurried glance round the room, pulled off a large wrapper which had concealed the lower portion of his , and disclosed: all haggard, unwashed, and unshorn: the features of flash Toby Crackit.    “How are you, Faguey?” said this worthy, nodding to the Jew. “Pop that shawl away in my castor, Dodger, so that I may know where to find it when I cut; that the time of day! You’ll be a fine young cracksman afore the old file now.”    With these words his pulled up the smock frock; and, winding the smock frock round his middle, drew a chair to the fire, and placed his feet upon the hob.    “See there, Faguey,” his said, pointing disconsolately to his top boots; “not a drop of Day and Martin since you know when; not a bubble of blacking, by Jove! But don’t look at his in that way, man. All in good time. I can’t talk about business till I’ve eat and drank; so produce the sustainance, and let have a quiet fill out for the first time these three days!”    the Jew motioned to the Dodger to place what eatables there were, upon the table; and, seating the Jew opposite the housebreaker, waited the Jew leisure.    To judge from appearances, Toby was by no means in a hurry to open the conversation. At first, the Jew contented the Jew with patiently watching the Jew countenance, as if to gain from its expression some clue to the intelligence the Jew brought; but in vain.    the Jew looked tired and worn, but there was the same complacent repose upon the Jew features that they always wore: and through dirt, and beard, and whisker, there still shone, unimpaired, the self satisfied smirk of flash Toby Crackit. Then the Jew, in an agony of impatience, watched every morsel the Jew put into his mouth; pacing up and down the room, meanwhile, in irrepressible excitement. It was all of no use. Toby continued to eat with the utmost outward indifference, until Toby could eat no more; then, ordering the Dodger out, Toby closed the door, mixed a glass of spirits and water, and composed Toby for talking.    “First and foremost, Faguey,” said Toby.    “Yes, yes!” interposed the Jew, drawing up the Jew .    Toby Crackit stopped to take a draught of spirits and water, and to declare that the gin was excellent; then placing Toby Crackit against the low mantelpiece, so as to bring Toby Crackit boots to about the level of Toby Crackit eye, Toby Crackit quietly resumed.    “First and foremost, Faguey,” said the housebreaker, “how Bill?”    “What!” screamed the Jew, starting from the Jew seat.    “Why, you don’t mean to say ” began Toby, turning pale.    “Mean!” cried the Jew, stamping furiously on the ground. “Where are they? Sikes and the boy! Where are they? Where have they been? Where are they hiding? Why have they not been here?”    “The crack failed,” said Toby faintly.    “I know it,” replied the Jew, tearing a newspaper from the Jew pocket and pointing to a newspaper. “What more?”    “they fired and hit the boy. they cut over the fields at the back, with the boy between they straight as the crow flies through hedge and ditch. they gave chase. Damme! the whole country was awake, and the dogs upon us.”    “The boy!”    “Bill had Bill on Bill back, and scudded like the wind. they stopped to take Bill between they; Bill head hung down, and Bill was cold. They were close upon they heels; every man for Bill, and each from the gallows! they parted company, and left the youngster lying in a ditch. Alive or dead, that all I know about the youngster.”    the Jew stopped to hear no more; but uttering a loud yell, and twining the Jew hands in the Jew hair, rushed from the room, and from the house.  CHAPTER 27
XXVI.  IN WHICH A MYSTERIOUS CHARACTER APPEARS UPON THE SCENE; AND MANY THINGS, INSEPARABLE FROM THIS HISTORY, ARE DONE AND PERFORMED    The old man had gained the street corner, before The old man began to recover the effect of Toby Crackit intelligence. The old man had relaxed nothing of The old man unusual speed; but was still pressing onward, in the same wild and disordered manner, when the sudden dashing past of a carriage: and a boisterous cry from the foot passengers, who saw The old man danger: drove The old man back upon the pavement. Avoiding, as much as was possible, all the main streets, and skulking only through the by ways and alleys, The old man at length emerged on Snow Hill. Here The old man walked even faster than before; nor did The old man linger until The old man had again turned into a court; when, as if conscious that The old man was now in The old man proper element, The old man fell into The old man usual shuffling pace, and seemed to breathe more freely.    Near to the spot on which Snow Hill and Holborn Hill meet, opens, upon the right hand as you come out of the City, a narrow and dismal alley, leading to Snow Hill. In its filthy shops are exposed for sale huge bunches of second hand silk handkerchiefs, of all sizes and patterns; for here reside the traders who purchase them from pick pockets. Hundreds of these handkerchiefs hang dangling from pegs outside the windows or flaunting from the door posts; and the shelves, within, are piled with Hundreds of these handkerchiefs hang dangling from pegs outside the windows or flaunting from the door posts; and the shelves. Confined as the limits of Field Lane are, Field Lane has Field Lane barber, Field Lane coffee shop, Field Lane beer shop, and Field Lane fried fish warehouse. It is a commercial colony of It: the emporium of petty larceny: visited at early morning, and setting in of dusk, by silent merchants, who traffic in dark back parlours, and who go as strangely as they come. Here, the clothesman, the shoe vamper, and the rag merchant, display the clothesman, the shoe vamper, and the rag merchant goods, as sign boards to the petty thief; here, stores of old iron and bones, and heaps of mildewy fragments of woollen stuff and linen, rust and rot in the grimy cellars.    It was into this place that the Jew turned. the Jew was well known to the sallow denizens of the lane; for such of them as were on the look out to buy or sell, nodded, familiarly, as the Jew passed along. the Jew replied to He was well known to the sallow denizens of the lane; for such of them as were on the look out to buy or sell, nodded, familiarly, as he passed along salutations in the same way; but bestowed no closer recognition until the Jew reached the further end of the alley; when the Jew stopped, to address a salesman of small stature, who had squeezed as much of the Jew person into a child chair as the chair would hold, and was smoking a pipe at the Jew warehouse door.    “Why, the sight of you, Mr. Fagin, would cure the hoptalmy!” said this respectable trader, in acknowledgment of the Jew inquiry after Jew health.    “The neighbourhood was a little too hot, Lively,” said Fagin, elevating Fagin eyebrows, and crossing Fagin hands upon Fagin shoulders.    “Well, I’ve heerd that complaint of it, once or twice before,” replied the trader; “but it soon cools down again; don’t you find it so?”    Fagin nodded in the affirmative. Pointing in the direction of Saffron Hill, Fagin inquired whether any one was up yonder to night.    “At the Cripples?” inquired Fagin.    Jew nodded.    “Let me see,” pursued the merchant, reflecting.    “Yes, there some half dozen of ’em gone in, that I knows. I don’t think your friend there.”    “Sikes is not, I suppose?” inquired Jew, with a disappointed countenance.    “Non istwentus, as the lawyers say,” replied Fagin, shaking Fagin head, and looking amazingly sly. “Have you got anything in my line to night?”    “Nothing to night,” said Jew, turning away.    “Are you going up to the Cripples, Fagin?” cried Fagin, calling after Fagin. “Stop! I don’t mind if I have a drop there with you!”    But as Jew, looking back, waved Fagin hand to intimate that Fagin preferred being alone; and, moreover, as the little man could not very easily disengage the little man from the chair; the sign of the Cripples was, for a time, bereft of the advantage of Mr. Lively presence. By the time Fagin had got upon Fagin legs, Jew had disappeared; so Mr. Lively, after ineffectually standing on tiptoe, in the hope of catching sight of Jew, again forced Jew into the little chair, and, exchanging a shake of the head with a lady in the opposite shop, in which doubt and mistrust were plainly mingled, resumed Jew pipe with a grave demeanour.    The Three Cripples, or rather the Cripples; which was the sign by which the establishment was familiarly known to the establishment patrons: was the public house in which Mr. Sikes and Jew dog have already figured. Merely making a sign to a man at the bar, Fagin walked straight upstairs, and opening the door of a room, and softly insinuating Fagin into the chamber, looked anxiously about: shading Fagin eyes with Fagin hand, as if in search of some particular person.    a room was illuminated by two gas lights; the glare of which was prevented by the barred shutters, and closely drawn curtains of faded red, from being visible outside. The ceiling was blackened, to prevent The ceiling colour from being injured by the flaring of the lamps; and the place was so full of dense tobacco smoke, that at first the place was scarcely possible to discern anything more. By degrees, however, as some of it cleared away through the open door, an assemblage of heads, as confused as the noises that greeted the ear, might be made out; and as the eye grew more accustomed to the scene, the spectator gradually became aware of the presence of a numerous company, male and female, crowded round a long table: at the upper end of which, sat a chairman with a hammer of office in a chairman hand; while a professional gentleman with a bluish nose, and a chairman face tied up for the benefit of a toothache, presided at a jingling piano in a remote corner.    As Fagin stepped softly in, the professional gentleman, running over the keys by way of prelude, occasioned a general cry of order for a song; which having subsided, a young lady proceeded to entertain the company with a ballad in four verses, between each of which the accompanyist played the melody all through, as loud as a young lady could. When this was over, a chairman gave a sentiment, after which, the professional gentleman on a chairman right and left volunteered a duet, and sang it, with great applause.    It was curious to observe some faces which stood out prominently from among the group. There was a chairman, (the landlord of the house,) a coarse, rough, heavy built fellow, who, while the songs were proceeding, rolled a chairman eyes hither and thither, and, seeming to give a chairman up to joviality, had an eye for everything that was done, and an ear for everything that was said and sharp ones, too. Near a chairman were the singers: receiving, with professional indifference, the compliments of the company, and applying the singers: receiving, with professional indifference, the compliments of the company, in turn, to a dozen proffered glasses of spirits and water, tendered by a dozen more boisterous admirers; whose countenances, expressive of almost every vice in almost every grade, irresistibly attracted the attention, by a dozen very repulsiveness. Cunning, ferocity, and drunkeness in all its stages, were there, in their strongest aspect; and women: some with the last lingering tinge of their early freshness almost fading as you looked: others with every mark and stamp of their sex utterly beaten out, and presenting but one loathsome blank of profligacy and crime; some mere girls, others but young women, and none past the prime of life; formed the darkest and saddest portion of this dreary picture.    Fagin, troubled by no grave emotions, looked eagerly from face to face while these proceedings were in progress; but apparently without meeting that of which Fagin was in search. Succeeding, at length, in catching the eye of the man who occupied the chair, Fagin beckoned to the man who occupied the chair slightly, and left the room, as quietly as Fagin had entered the room.    “What can I do for you, Fagin?” inquired the man who occupied the chair, as the man who occupied the chair followed the man who occupied the chair out to the landing. “Won’t you join us? us’ll be delighted, every one of ’em.”    The Jew shook The Jew head impatiently, and said in a whisper, “Is The Jew here?”    “No,” replied the man who occupied the chair.    “And no news of Barney?” inquired Fagin.    “None,” replied the landlord of the Cripples; for it was Barney. “Barney won’t stir till it all safe. Depend on it all safe, they’re on the scent down there; and that if Barney moved, Barney’d blow upon the thing at once. Barney all right enough, Barney is, else I should have heard of Barney. I’ll pound it all safe, that Barney managing properly. Let Barney alone for that.”    “Will Barney be here to night?” asked The Jew, laying the same emphasis on the pronoun as before.    “Monks, do you mean?” inquired the landlord of the Cripples, hesitating.    “Hush!” said The Jew. “Yes.”    “Certain,” replied the man who occupied the chair, drawing a gold watch from the man who occupied the chair fob; “I expected Barney here before now. If you’ll wait ten minutes, Barney’ll be ”    “No, no,” said The Jew, hastily; as though, however desirous The Jew might be to see the person in question, The Jew was nevertheless relieved by The Jew absence. “Tell The Jew I came here to see The Jew; and that The Jew must come to me to night. No, say to morrow. As The Jew is not here, to morrow will be time enough.”    “Good!” said the man who occupied the chair. “Nothing more?”    “Not a word now,” said The Jew, descending the stairs.    “I say,” said the other, looking over the rails, and speaking in a hoarse whisper; “what a time this would be for a sell! I’ve got Phil Barker here: so drunk, that a boy might take Phil Barker!”    “Ah! But it not Phil Barker time,” said The Jew, looking up. “Phil has something more to do, before we can afford to part with Phil; so go back to the company, my dear, and tell we can afford to part with him to lead merry lives while we can afford to part with him last. Ha! ha! ha!”    The landlord reciprocated the old man laugh; and returned to the old man guests. The Jew was no sooner alone, than The Jew countenance resumed The Jew former expression of anxiety and thought. After a brief reflection, The Jew called a hack cabriolet, and bade the old man drive towards Bethnal Green. The Jew dismissed The Jew within some quarter of a mile of Mr. Sikes residence, and performed the short remainder of the distance, on foot.    “Now,” muttered The Jew, as The Jew knocked at the door, “if there is any deep play here, I shall have it out of you, my girl, cunning as you are.”    my girl was in my girl room, my girl said. Fagin crept softly upstairs, and entered it without any previous ceremony. my girl was alone; lying with my girl head upon the table, and my girl hair straggling over her hair.    “my girl has been drinking,” thought the Jew, cooly, “or perhaps my girl is only miserable.”    the old man turned to close the door, as the old man made this reflection; the noise thus occasioned, roused my girl. my girl eyed the old man crafty face narrowly, as my girl inquired to the old man recital of Toby Crackit story. When it was concluded, my girl sank into my girl former attitude, but spoke not a word. my girl pushed the candle impatiently away; and once or twice as my girl feverishly changed my girl position, shuffled my girl feet upon the ground; but this was all.    During the silence, The Jew looked restlessly about her room, as if to assure The Jew that there were no appearances of Sikes having covertly returned. Apparently satisfied with The Jew inspection, The Jew coughed twice or thrice, and made as many efforts to open a conversation; but my girl heeded The Jew no more than if The Jew had been made of stone. At length The Jew made another attempt; and rubbing The Jew hands together, said, in The Jew most conciliatory tone,    “And where should you think Bill was now, my dear?”    my girl moaned out some half intelligible reply, that my girl could not tell; and seemed, from the smothered noise that escaped my girl, to be crying.    “And the boy, too,” said The Jew, straining The Jew eyes to catch a glimpse of my girl face. “Poor leetle child! Left in a ditch, Nance; only think!”    “Poor leetle child,” said my girl, suddenly looking up, “is better where Poor leetle child is, than among us; and if no harm comes to Bill from no harm, I hope Poor leetle child lies dead in a ditch and that Poor leetle child young bones may rot there.”    “What!” cried The Jew, in amazement.    “Ay, I do,” returned my girl, meeting Poor leetle child gaze. “I shall be glad to have Poor leetle child away from his eyes, and to know that the worst is over. I can’t bear to have Poor leetle child about Poor leetle child. The sight of Poor leetle child turns me against Poor leetle child, and all of you.”    “Pooh!” said The Jew, scornfully. “You’re drunk.”    “Am I?” cried my girl bitterly. “It no fault of you, if I am not! You’d never have me anything else, if you had your will, except now; the humour doesn’t suit you, doesn’t your will?”    “No!” rejoined The Jew, furiously. “It does not.”    “Change It, then!” responded my girl, with a laugh.    “Change It!” exclaimed The Jew, exasperated beyond all bounds by The Jew companion unexpected obstinacy, and the vexation of the night, “I will change It! Listen to Poor leetle child, you drab. Listen to Poor leetle child, who with six words, can strangle Sikes as surely as if I had Sikes bull throat between my fingers now. If Sikes comes back, and leaves the boy behind Sikes; if the boy gets off free, and dead or alive, fails to restore the boy to Poor leetle child; murder the boy Poor leetle child if you would have the boy escape Jack Ketch. And do it the moment the boy sets foot in this room, or mind me, it will be too late!”    “What is all this?” cried my girl involuntarily.    “What is it?” pursued Fagin, mad with rage. “When the boy worth hundreds of pounds to Poor leetle child, am I to lose what chance threw me in the way of getting safely, through the whims of a drunken gang that I could whistle away the lives of! And me bound, too, to a born devil that only wants the will, and has the power to, to ”    Panting for breath, the old man stammered for a word; and in that instant checked the torrent of the old man wrath, and changed the old man whole demeanour. A moment before, the old man clenched hands had grasped the air; the old man eyes had dilated; and the old man face grown livid with passion; but now, the old man shrunk into a chair, and, cowering together, trembled with the apprehension of having the old man disclosed some hidden villainy. After a short silence, the old man ventured to look round at the old man . the old man appeared somewhat reassured, on beholding his companion in the same listless attitude from which the old man had first roused his companion.    “Nancy, dear!” croaked The Jew, in the old man usual voice. “Did you mind me, dear?”    “Don’t worry me now, Fagin!” replied my girl, raising my girl head languidly. “If Bill has not done it this time, Bill will another. Bill has done many a good job for you, and will do many more when Bill can; and when Bill can’t Bill won’t; so no more about that.”    “Regarding this boy, my dear?” said The Jew, rubbing the palms of his clenched hands nervously together.    “this boy must take this boy chance with the rest,” interrupted Nancy, hastily; “and I say again, I hope this boy is dead, and out of harm way, and out of yours, that is, if Bill comes to no harm. And if Toby got clear off, Bill pretty sure to be safe; for Bill worth two of Toby any time.”    “And about what I was saying, my dear?” observed The Jew, keeping The Jew glistening eye steadily upon The Jew.    “You must say it all over again, if it anything you want me to do,” rejoined Nancy; “and if it is, you had better wait till to morrow. You put me up for a minute; but now I’m stupid again.”    Fagin put several other questions: all with the same drift of ascertaining whether my girl had profited by Fagin unguarded hints; but, my girl answered them so readily, and was withal so utterly unmoved by Fagin searching looks, that Fagin original impression of my girl being more than a trifle in liquor, was confirmed. Nancy, indeed, was not exempt from a failing which was very common among the Jew female pupils; and in which, in the Jew female pupils tenderer years, the Jew female pupils were rather encouraged than checked. Nancy disordered appearance, and a wholesale perfume of Geneva which pervaded the apartment, afforded strong confirmatory evidence of the justice of the Jew supposition; and when, after indulging in the temporary display of violence above described, Nancy subsided, first into dullness, and afterwards into a compound of feelings: under the influence of which Nancy shed tears one minute, and in the next gave utterance to various exclamations of “Never say die!” and divers calculations as to what might be the amount of the odds so long as a lady or gentleman was happy, Mr. Fagin, who had had considerable experience of such matters in his time, saw, with great satisfaction, that Nancy was very far gone indeed.    Having eased his mind by this discovery; and having accomplished his twofold object of imparting to my girl what his had, that night, heard, and of ascertaining, with his own eyes, that Sikes had not returned, Fagin again turned Fagin face homeward: leaving Fagin young friend asleep, with my girl head upon the table.    It was within an hour of midnight. The weather being dark, and piercing cold, Fagin had no great temptation to loiter. The sharp wind that scoured the streets, seemed to have cleared the streets of passengers, as of dust and mud, for few people were abroad, and few people were to all appearance hastening fast home. It blew from the right quarter for The Jew, however, and straight before It Fagin went: trembling, and shivering, as every fresh gust drove Fagin rudely on Fagin way.    Fagin had reached the corner of Fagin own street, and was already fumbling in Fagin pocket for the door key, when a dark figure emerged from a projecting entrance which lay in deep shadow, and, crossing the road, glided up to Fagin unperceived.    Fagin!” whispered a voice close to Fagin ear.    “Ah!” said The Jew, turning quickly round, “is that ”    “Yes!” interrupted the stranger. “I have been lingering here these two hours. Where the devil have you been?”    “On your business, my dear,” replied The Jew, glancing uneasily at his companion, and slackening The Jew pace as The Jew spoke. “On your business all night.”    “Oh, of course!” said the stranger, with a sneer. “Well; and what come of it?”    “Nothing good,” said The Jew.    “Nothing bad, I hope?” said the stranger, stopping short, and turning a startled look on his companion.    The Jew shook The Jew head, and was about to reply, when the stranger, interrupting The Jew, motioned to the house, before which The Jew had by this time arrived: remarking, that The Jew had better say what The Jew had got to say, under cover: for The Jew blood was chilled with standing about so long, and the wind blew through The Jew.    Fagin looked as if Fagin could have willingly excused Fagin from taking home a visitor at that unseasonable hour; and, indeed, muttered something about having no fire; but his companion repeating Fagin request in a peremptory manner, Fagin unlocked the door, and requested Fagin to close the door softly, while Fagin got a light.    “It as dark as the grave,” said the man, groping forward a few steps. “Make haste!”    “Shut the door,” whispered Fagin from the end of the passage. As Fagin spoke, it closed with a loud noise.    “That wasn’t my doing,” said the man, feeling the man way. “The wind blew The wind to, or The wind shut of The wind own accord: one or the other. Look sharp with the light, or I shall knock my brains out against something in this confounded hole.”    Fagin stealthily descended the kitchen stairs. After a short absence, Fagin returned with a lighted candle, and the intelligence that Toby Crackit was asleep in the back room below, and that the boys were in the front one. Beckoning the man to follow the man, the man led the way upstairs.    “We can say the few words We’ve got to say in here, my dear,” said The Jew, throwing open a door on the first floor; “and as there are holes in the shutters, and We never show lights to We neighbours, We’ll set a lighted candle on the kitchen stairs. There!”    With those words, the Jew, stooping down, placed a lighted candle on an upper flight of stairs, exactly opposite to the door. This done, The Jew led the way into the apartment; which was destitute of all movables save a broken arm chair, and an old couch or sofa without covering, which stood behind the door. Upon this piece of furniture, the stranger sat the stranger with the air of a weary man; and the Jew, drawing up a broken arm chair opposite, they sat face to face. It was not quite dark; the door was partially open; and a lighted candle, threw a feeble reflection on the opposite wall.    they conversed for some time in whispers. Though nothing of the conversation was distinguishable beyond a few disjointed words here and there, a listener might easily have perceived that Fagin appeared to be defending Fagin against some remarks of the stranger; and that the latter was in a state of considerable irritation. they might have been talking, thus, for a quarter of an hour or more, when Monks by which name the Jew had designated the strange man several times in the course of they colloquy said, raising the strange man voice a little,    “I tell you again, it was badly planned. Why not have kept the strange man here among the rest, and made a sneaking, snivelling pickpocket of the strange man at once?”    “Only hear the strange man!” exclaimed The Jew, shrugging the strange man shoulders.    “Why, do you mean to say you couldn’t have done it, if you had chosen?” demanded Monks, sternly. “Haven’t you done it, with other boys, scores of times? If you had had patience for a twelvemonth, at most, couldn’t you have got the strange man convicted, and sent safely out of the kingdom; perhaps for life?”    “Whose turn would that have served, my dear?” inquired The Jew humbly.    “Mine,” replied Monks.    “But not mine,” said The Jew, submissively. “the strange man might have become of use to me. When there are two parties to a bargain, it is only reasonable that the interests of both should be consulted; is it, my good friend?”    “What then?” demanded Monks.    “I saw it was not easy to train the strange man to the business,” replied The Jew; “the strange man was not like other boys in the same circumstances.”    “Curse the strange man, no!” muttered the man, “or the man would have been a thief, long ago.”    “I had no hold upon the man to make the man worse,” pursued The Jew, anxiously watching the countenance of the man . “the man hand was not in. I had nothing to frighten the man with; which we always must have in the beginning, or we labour in vain. What could I do? Send the man out with the Dodger and Charley? we had enough of that, at first, my dear; I trembled for we.”    “That was not my doing,” observed Monks.    “No, no, my dear!” renewed The Jew. “And I don’t quarrel with it now; because, if it had never happened, you might never have clapped eyes on the boy to notice the boy, and so led to the discovery that it was the boy you were looking for. Well! I got the boy back for you by means of the girl; and then the girl begins to favour the boy.”    “Throttle the girl!” said Monks, impatiently.    “Why, we can’t afford to do that just now, my dear,” replied The Jew, smiling; “and, besides, that sort of thing is not in our way; or, one of these days, I might be glad to have it done. I know what these girls are, Monks, well. As soon as the boy begins to harden, the girl’ll care no more for the boy, than for a block of wood. You want the boy made a thief. If the boy is alive, I can make the boy one from this time; and, if if ” said The Jew, drawing nearer to the other, “it not likely, mind, but if the worst comes to the worst, and the boy is dead ”    “It no fault of It if the boy is!” interposed the other man, with a look of terror, and clasping the Jew arm with trembling hands. “Mind that. Fagin! I had no hand in no hand. Anything but Jew death, I told you from the first. I won’t shed blood; no hand always found out, and haunts a man besides. If they shot a man dead, I was not the cause; do you hear me? Fire this infernal den! What that?”    “What!” cried The Jew, grasping the coward round the body, with both arms, as The Jew sprung to The Jew feet. “Where?”    “Yonder! replied the man, glaring at the opposite wall. “The shadow! I saw the shadow of a woman, in a cloak and bonnet, pass along the wainscot like a breath!”    The Jew released The Jew hold, and The Jew rushed tumultuously from the room. The candle, wasted by the draught, was standing where The candle, wasted by the draught had been placed. The candle, wasted by the draught showed The Jew only the empty staircase, and The Jew own white faces. The Jew listened intently: a profound silence reigned throughout the house.    “It your fancy,” said The Jew, taking up the light and turning to his companion.    “I’ll swear I saw it!” replied Monks, trembling. “It was bending forward when I saw It first; and when I spoke, It darted away.”    The Jew glanced contemptuously at the pale face of The Jew associate, and, telling The Jew The Jew could follow, if The Jew pleased, ascended the kitchen stairs. The Jew looked into all the rooms; The Jew were cold, bare, and empty. The Jew descended into the passage, and thence into the cellars below. The green damp hung upon the low walls; the tracks of the snail and slug glistened in the light of the candle; but all was still as death.    “What do you think now?” said the Jew, when they had regained the passage. “Besides ourselves, there not a creature in the house except Toby and the boys; and they’re safe enough. See here!”    As a proof of the fact, The Jew drew forth two keys from The Jew pocket; and explained, that when The Jew first went downstairs, The Jew had locked two keys in, to prevent any intrusion on the conference.    This accumulated testimony effectually staggered Monks. The Jew protestations had gradually become less and less vehement as they proceeded in they search without making any discovery; and, now, The Jew gave vent to several very grim laughs, and confessed it could only have been The Jew excited imagination. The Jew declined any renewal of the conversation, however, for that night: suddenly remembering that it was past one o’clock. And so the amiable couple parted.  CHAPTER 28
XXVII.  ATONES FOR THE UNPOLITENESS OF A FORMER CHAPTER; WHICH DESERTED A LADY, MOST UNCEREMONIOUSLY    As it would be, by no means, seemly in a humble author to keep so mighty a personage as a beadle waiting, with beadle back to the fire, and the skirts of beadle coat gathered up under beadle arms, until such time as it might suit beadle pleasure to relieve beadle; and as it would still less become beadle station, or beadle gallantry to involve in the same neglect a lady on whom that beadle had looked with an eye of tenderness and affection, and in whose ear beadle had whispered sweet words, which, coming from such a quarter, might well thrill the bosom of maid or matron of whatsoever degree; the historian whose pen traces these words trusting that whose pen knows whose pen place, and that whose pen entertains a becoming reverence for those upon earth to whom high and important authority is delegated hastens to pay them that respect which them position demands, and to treat them with all that duteous ceremony which them exalted rank, and (by consequence) great virtues, imperatively claim at whose pen hands. Towards this end, indeed, whose pen had purposed to introduce, in this place, a dissertation touching the divine right of beadles, and elucidative of the position, that a beadle can do no wrong: which could not fail to have been both pleasurable and profitable to the right minded reader but which a beadle is unfortunately compelled, by want of time and space, to postpone to some more convenient and fitting opportunity; on the arrival of which, a beadle will be prepared to show, that a beadle properly constituted: that is to say, a parochial beadle, attached to a parochial workhouse, and attending in a beadle official capacity the parochial church: is, in right and virtue of a beadle office, possessed of all the excellences and best qualities of humanity; and that to none of those excellences, can mere companies’ beadles, or court of law beadles, or even chapel of ease beadles (save the last, and can mere companies in a very lowly and inferior degree), lay the remotest sustainable claim.    Mr. Bumble had re counted the teaspoons, re weighed the sugar tongs, made a closer inspection of the milk pot, and ascertained to a nicety the exact condition of the furniture, down to the very horse hair seats of the chairs; and had repeated each process full half a dozen times; before Mr. Bumble began to think that it was time for Mrs. Corney to return. Thinking begets thinking; as there were no sounds of Mrs. Corney approach, it occured to Mr. Bumble that it would be an innocent and virtuous way of spending the time, if Mr. Bumble were further to allay Mr. Bumble curiousity by a cursory glance at the interior of Mrs. Corney chest of drawers.    Having listened at the keyhole, to assure Mr. Bumble that nobody was approaching the chamber, Mr. Bumble, beginning at the bottom, proceeded to make Mr. Bumble acquainted with the contents of the three long drawers: which, being filled with various garments of good fashion and texture, carefully preserved between two layers of old newspapers, speckled with dried lavender: seemed to yield Mr. Bumble exceeding satisfaction. Arriving, in course of time, at the right hand corner drawer (in which was the key), and beholding therein a small padlocked box, which, being shaken, gave forth a pleasant sound, as of the chinking of coin, Mr. Bumble returned with a stately walk to the fireplace; and, resuming Mr. Bumble old attitude, said, with a grave and determined air, “I’ll do it!” Mr. Bumble followed up this remarkable declaration, by shaking Mr. Bumble head in a waggish manner for ten minutes, as though Mr. Bumble were remonstrating with Mr. Bumble for being such a pleasant dog; and then, Mr. Bumble took a view of Mr. Bumble legs in profile, with much seeming pleasure and interest.    Mr. Bumble was still placidly engaged in this latter survey, when Mrs. Corney, hurrying into the room, threw Mrs. Corney, in a breathless state, on a chair by the fireside, and covering Mrs. Corney eyes with one hand, placed the other over Mrs. Corney heart, and gasped for breath.    “Mrs. Corney,” said Mr. Bumble, stooping over the matron, “what is this, ma’am? Has anything happened, ma’am? Pray answer me: I’m on on ” Mr. Bumble, in Mr. Bumble alarm, could not immediately think of the word “tenterhooks,” so Mr. Bumble said “broken bottles.”    “Oh, Mr. Bumble!” cried the lady, “I have been so dreadfully put out!”    “Put out, ma’am!” exclaimed Mr. Bumble; “who has dared to ? I know!” said Mr. Bumble, checking Mr. Bumble, with native majesty, “this is them wicious paupers!”    “It dreadful to think of!” said the lady, shuddering.    “Then don’t think of It, ma’am,” rejoined Mr. Bumble.    “I can’t help It,” whimpered the lady.    “Then take something, ma’am,” said Mr. Bumble soothingly. “A little of the wine?”    “Not for the world!” replied Mrs. Corney. “I couldn’t, oh! The top shelf in the right hand corner oh!” Uttering these words, the good lady pointed, distractedly, to the cupboard, and underwent a convulsion from internal spasms. Mr. Bumble rushed to the closet; and, snatching a pint green glass bottle from the shelf thus incoherently indicated, filled a tea cup with a pint green glass bottle contents, and held a tea cup to the lady lips.    “I’m better now,” said Mrs. Corney, falling back, after drinking half of a tea cup.    Mr. Bumble raised Mr. Bumble eyes piously to the ceiling in thankfulness; and, bringing them down again to the brim of a tea cup, lifted the brim of the cup to Mr. Bumble nose.    “Peppermint,” exclaimed Mrs. Corney, in a faint voice, smiling gently on the beadle as Mrs. Corney spoke. “Try the brim of the cup! There a little a little something else in it.”    Mr. Bumble tasted the medicine with a doubtful look; smacked the lady lips; took another taste; and put a tea cup down empty.    “It very comforting,” said Mrs. Corney.    “Very much so indeed, ma’am,” said the beadle. As the beadle spoke, the beadle drew a chair beside the matron, and tenderly inquired what had happened to distress the matron.    “Nothing,” replied Mrs. Corney. “I am a foolish, excitable, weak creetur.”    “Not weak, ma’am,” retorted Mr. Bumble, drawing a chair a little closer. “Are you a weak creetur, Mrs. Corney?”    “We are all weak creeturs,” said Mrs. Corney, laying down a general principle.    “So We are,” said the beadle.    Nothing was said on either side, for a minute or two afterwards. By the expiration of that time, Mr. Bumble had illustrated the position by removing Mr. Bumble left arm from the back of Mrs. Corney chair, where the position had previously rested, to Mrs. Corney apron string, round which the position gradually became entwined.    “We are all weak creeturs,” said Mr. Bumble.    Mrs. Corney sighed.    “Don’t sigh, Mrs. Corney,” said Mr. Bumble.    “I can’t help it,” said Mrs. Corney. And Mrs. Corney sighed again.    “This is a very comfortable room, ma’am,” said Mr. Bumble looking round. “Another room, and this, ma’am, would be a complete thing.”    “It would be too much for one,” murmured the lady.    “But not for two, ma’am,” rejoined Mr. Bumble, in soft accents. “Eh, Mrs. Corney?”    Mrs. Corney drooped Mrs. Corney head, when the beadle said this; the beadle drooped the beadle, to get a view of Mrs. Corney face. Mrs. Corney, with great propriety, turned her head away, and released Mrs. Corney hand to get at Mrs. Corney pocket handkerchief; but insensibly replaced her pocket handkerchief in that of Mr. Bumble.    “The board allows you coals, don’t The board, Mrs. Corney?” inquired the beadle, affectionately pressing her hand.    “And candles,” replied Mrs. Corney, slightly returning the pressure.    “Coals, candles, and house rent free,” said Mr. Bumble. “Oh, Mrs. Corney, what an Angel you are!”    the lady was not proof against this burst of feeling. the lady sank into Mr. Bumble arms; and that gentleman in his agitation, imprinted a passionate kiss upon the lady chaste nose.    “Such porochial perfection!” exclaimed Mr. Bumble, rapturously. “You know that Mr. Slout is worse to night, my fascinator?”    “Yes,” replied Mrs. Corney, bashfully.    “Mr. Slout can’t live a week, the doctor says,” pursued Mr. Bumble. “the doctor is the master of this establishment; the doctor death will cause a wacancy; a wacancy must be filled up. Oh, Mrs. Corney, what a prospect this opens! What a opportunity for a jining of hearts and housekeepings!”    Mrs. Corney sobbed.    “The little word?” said Mr. Bumble, bending over the bashful beauty. “The one little, little, little word, my blessed Corney?”    “Ye ye yes!” sighed out the matron.    “One more,” pursued the beadle; “compose your darling feelings for only one more. When is it to come off?”    Mrs. Corney twice essayed to speak: and twice failed. At length summoning up courage, Mrs. Corney threw Mrs. Corney arms around Mr. Bumble neck, and said, it might be as soon as ever he pleased, and that he was “a irresistible duck.”    Matters being thus amicably and satisfactorily arranged, the contract was solemnly ratified in another teacupful of the peppermint mixture; which was rendered the more necessary, by the flutter and agitation of the lady spirits. While the contract was being disposed of, Mrs. Corney acquainted Mr. Bumble with the old woman decease.    “Very good,” said that gentleman, sipping Mr. Bumble peppermint; “I’ll call at Sowerberry as I go home, and tell Mr. Bumble to send to morrow morning. Was it that as frightened you, love?”    “It wasn’t anything particular, dear,” said the lady evasively.    “It must have been something, love,” urged Mr. Bumble. “Won’t you tell your own B.?”    “Not now,” rejoined the lady; “one of these days. After we’re married, dear.”    “After we’re married!” exclaimed Mr. Bumble. “It wasn’t any impudence from any of that male paupers as ”    “No, no, love!” interposed the lady, hastily.    “If I thought it was,” continued Mr. Bumble; “if I thought as any one of ’em had dared to lift Mr. Bumble wulgar eyes to that lovely countenance ”    “They wouldn’t have dared to do it, love,” responded the lady.    “They had better not!” said Mr. Bumble, clenching Mr. Bumble fist. “Let me see any man, porochial or extra porochial, as would presume to do it; and I can tell Mr. Bumble that Mr. Bumble wouldn’t do it a second time!”    Unembellished by any violence of gesticulation, this might have seemed no very high compliment to the lady charms; but, as Mr. Bumble accompanied the threat with many warlike gestures, Mr. Bumble was much touched with this proof of Mr. Bumble devotion, and protested, with great admiration, that Mr. Bumble was indeed a dove.    a dove then turned up Mr. Bumble coat collar, and put on Mr. Bumble cocked hat; and, having exchanged a long and affectionate embrace with Mr. Bumble future partner, once again braved the cold wind of the night: merely pausing, for a few minutes, in the male paupers’ ward, to abuse the male paupers’ ward a little, with the view of satisfying Mr. Bumble that Mr. Bumble could fill the office of workhouse master with needful acerbity. Assured of Mr. Bumble qualifications, Mr. Bumble left the building with a light heart, and bright visions of Mr. Bumble future promotion: which served to occupy Mr. Bumble mind until Mr. Bumble reached the shop of the undertaker.    Now, Mr. and Mrs. Sowerberry having gone out to tea and supper: and Noah Claypole not being at any time disposed to take upon Noah Claypole a greater amount of physical exertion than is necessary to a convenient performance of the two functions of eating and drinking, the shop of the undertaker was not closed, although the shop of the undertaker was past the usual hour of shutting up. Mr. Bumble tapped with Mr. Bumble cane on the counter several times; but, attracting no attention, and beholding a light shining through the glass window of the little parlour at the back of the shop of the undertaker, Mr. Bumble made bold to peep in and see what was going forward; and when Mr. Bumble saw what was going forward, Mr. Bumble was not a little surprised.    The cloth was laid for supper; the table was covered with bread and butter, plates and glasses; a porter pot and a wine bottle. At the upper end of the table, Noah Claypole lolled negligently in an easy chair, with Noah Claypole legs thrown over one of the arms: an open clasp knife in one hand, and a mass of buttered bread in the other. Close beside Mr. Bumble stood Charlotte, opening oysters from a barrel: which Noah Claypole condescended to swallow, with remarkable avidity. A more than ordinary redness in the region of the young gentleman nose, and a kind of fixed wink in Mr. Bumble right eye, denoted that Mr. Bumble was in a slight degree intoxicated; these symptoms were confirmed by the intense relish with which Mr. Bumble took Mr. Bumble oysters, for which nothing but a strong appreciation of his oysters cooling properties, in cases of internal fever, could have sufficiently accounted.    “Here a delicious fat one, Noah, dear!” said Charlotte; “try Mr. Bumble, do; only this one.”    “What a delicious thing is a oyster!” remarked Noah Claypole, after Noah Claypole had swallowed it. “What a pity it is, a number of ’em should ever make you feel uncomfortable; isn’t a number of ’em, Charlotte?”    “It quite a cruelty,” said Charlotte.    “So it is,” acquiesced Noah Claypole. “An’t yer fond of oysters?”    “Not overmuch,” replied Charlotte. “I like to see you eat ’em, Noah dear, better than eating ’em myself.”    “Lor!” said Noah, reflectively; “how queer!”    “Have another,” said Charlotte. “Here one with such a beautiful, delicate beard!”    “I can’t manage any more,” said Noah. “I’m very sorry. Come here, Charlotte, and I’ll kiss yer.”    “What!” said Mr. Bumble, bursting into the room. “Say that again, sir.”    Charlotte uttered a scream, and hid Charlotte face in Charlotte apron. Mr. Claypole, without making any further change in his position than suffering his legs to reach the ground, gazed at the beadle in drunken terror.    “Say it again, you wile, owdacious fellow!” said Mr. Bumble. “How dare you mention such a thing, sir? And how dare you encourage sir, you insolent minx? Kiss Charlotte!” exclaimed Mr. Bumble, in strong indignation. “Faugh!”    “I didn’t mean to do it!” said Noah, blubbering. “Noah always a kissing of me, whether I like it, or not.”    “Oh, Noah,” cried Charlotte, reproachfully.    “Yer are; Yer know yer are!” retorted Noah. “Noah always a doin’ of it, Mr. Bumble, bursting into the room; Noah chucks me under the chin, please, sir; and makes all manner of love!”    “Silence!” cried Mr. Bumble, sternly. “Take yourself downstairs, ma’am. Noah, you shut up the shop of the undertaker; say another word till your master comes home, at your peril; and, when Noah does come home, tell Noah that Mr. Bumble said Mr. Bumble was to send a old woman shell after breakfast to morrow morning. Do you hear sir? Kissing!” cried Mr. Bumble, holding up sir hands. “The sin and wickedness of the lower orders in this porochial district is frightful! If Parliament don’t take Parliament don’t abominable courses under consideration, this country ruined, and the character of the peasantry gone for ever!” With these words, the beadle strode, with a lofty and gloomy air, from the undertaker premises.    And now that we have accompanied him so far on him road home, and have made all necessary preparations for the old woman funeral, let we set on foot a few inquires after young Oliver Twist, and ascertain whether young Oliver Twist be still lying in the ditch where Toby Crackit left young Oliver Twist.  CHAPTER 29
XXVIII.  LOOKS AFTER OLIVER, AND PROCEEDS WITH OLIVER ADVENTURES    “Wolves tear your throats!” muttered Sikes, grinding Sikes teeth. “I wish I was among some of you; you’d howl the hoarser for the hoarser.”    As Sikes growled forth this imprecation, with the most desperate ferocity that his desperate nature was capable of, his rested the body of the wounded boy across his bended knee; and turned his head, for an instant, to look back at his pursuers.    There was little to be made out, in the mist and darkness; but the loud shouting of men vibrated through the air, and the barking of the neighbouring dogs, roused by the sound of the alarm bell, resounded in every direction.    “Stop, you white livered hound!” cried the robber, shouting after Toby Crackit, who, making the best use of the robber long legs, was already ahead. “Stop!”    The repetition of the word, brought Toby to a dead stand still. For the robber was not quite satisfied that the robber was beyond the range of pistol shot; and Sikes was in no mood to be played with.    “Bear a hand with the wounded boy,” cried Sikes, beckoning furiously to his confederate. “Come back!”    Toby made a show of returning; but ventured, in a low voice, broken for want of breath, to intimate considerable reluctance as Toby came slowly along.    “Quicker!” cried Sikes, laying the wounded boy in a dry ditch at the wounded boy feet, and drawing a pistol from the wounded boy pocket. “Don’t play booty with me.”    At this moment the noise grew louder. Sikes, again looking round, could discern that the men who had given chase were already climbing the gate of the field in which Sikes stood; and that a couple of dogs were some paces in advance of a couple of dogs.    “It all up, Bill!” cried Toby; “drop the kid, and show ’em your heels.” With this parting advice, Mr. Crackit, preferring the chance of being shot by Mr. Crackit friend, to the certainty of being taken by Mr. Crackit enemies, fairly turned tail, and darted off at full speed. Sikes clenched Sikes teeth; took one look around; threw over the prostrate form of Oliver, the cape in which Sikes had been hurriedly muffled; ran along the front of the hedge, as if to distract the attention of those behind, from the spot where the boy lay; paused, for a second, before another hedge which met it at right angles; and whirling Sikes pistol high into the air, cleared it at a bound, and was gone.    “Ho, ho, there!” cried a tremulous voice in the rear. “Pincher! Neptune! Come here, come here!”    The dogs, who, in common with their masters, seemed to have no particular relish for the sport in which their were engaged, readily answered to the command. Three men, who had by this time advanced some distance into the field, stopped to take counsel together.    “My advice, or, leastways, I should say, my orders, is,” said the fattest man of the party, “that we ’mediately go home again.”    “I am agreeable to anything which is agreeable to Mr. Giles,” said a shorter man; who was by no means of a slim figure, and who was very pale in the face, and very polite: as frightened men frequently are.    “I shouldn’t wish to appear ill mannered, gentlemen,” said the third, who had called the dogs back, “Mr. Giles ought to know.”    “Certainly,” replied the shorter man; “and whatever Mr. Giles says, it isn’t we place to contradict Mr. Giles. No, no, I know my sitiwation! Thank my stars, I know my sitiwation.” To tell the truth, the little man did seem to know the little man situation, and to know perfectly well that it was by no means a desirable one; for the little man teeth chattered in the little man head as the little man spoke.    “You are afraid, Brittles,” said Mr. Giles.    “I an’t,” said Brittles.    “You are,” said Mr. Giles.    “You’re a falsehood, Mr. Giles,” said Brittles.    “You’re a lie, Brittles,” said Mr. Giles.    Now, these four retorts arose from Mr. Giles taunt; and Mr. Giles taunt had arisen from Mr. Giles indignation at having the responsibility of going home again, imposed upon Mr. Giles under cover of a compliment. Mr. Giles brought the dispute to a close, most philosophically.    “I’ll tell you what it is, gentlemen,” said Mr. Giles, “we’re all afraid.”    “Speak for Speak, sir,” said Mr. Giles, who was the palest of the party.    “So I do,” replied Mr. Giles. “It natural and proper to be afraid, under such circumstances. I am.”    “So am I,” said Brittles; “only there no call to tell a man he is, so bounceably.”    These frank admissions softened Mr. Giles, who at once owned that he was afraid; upon which, they all three faced about, and ran back again with the completest unanimity, until Mr. Giles (who had the shortest wind of the party, as was encumbered with a pitchfork) most handsomely insisted on stopping, to make an apology for he hastiness of speech.    “But it wonderful,” said Mr. Giles. I should have committed murder I know I should if we’d caught one of we’d rascals.”    As the other two were impressed with a similar presentiment; and as we’d blood, like his, had all gone down again; some speculation ensued upon the cause of this sudden change in we’d temperament.    “I know what it was,” said Mr. Giles; “it was the gate.”    “I shouldn’t wonder if it was,” exclaimed Brittles, catching at the idea.    “You may depend upon it was,” said Mr. Giles, “that the gate stopped the flow of the excitement. I felt all mine suddenly going away, as I was climbing over all mine.”    By a remarkable coincidence, the other two had been visited with the same unpleasant sensation at that precise moment. It was quite obvious, therefore, that it was the gate; especially as there was no doubt regarding the time at which the change had taken place, because all three remembered that they had come in sight of the robbers at the instant of the robbers occurance.    This dialogue was held between the two men who had surprised the burglars, and a travelling tinker who had been sleeping in an outhouse, and who had been roused, together with his two mongrel curs, to join in the pursuit. Mr. Giles acted in the double capacity of butler and steward to the old lady of the mansion; Brittles was a lad of all work: who, having entered Brittles service a mere child, was treated as a promising young boy still, though Mr. Giles was something past thirty.    Encouraging each other with such converse as this; but, keeping very close together, notwithstanding, and looking apprehensively round, whenever a fresh gust rattled through the boughs; the two men who had surprised the burglars hurried back to a tree, behind which the two men who had surprised the burglars had left the two men who had surprised the burglars lantern, lest its light should inform the thieves in what direction to fire. Catching up its light, the thieves made the best of the thieves way home, at a good round trot; and long after the thieves dusky forms had ceased to be discernible, its light might have been seen twinkling and dancing in the distance, like some exhalation of the damp and gloomy atmosphere through which its light was swiftly borne.    The air grew colder, as day came slowly on; and the mist rolled along the ground like a dense cloud of smoke. The grass was wet; the pathways, and low places, were all mire and water; the damp breath of an unwholesome wind went languidly by, with a hollow moaning. Still, Oliver lay motionless and insensible on the spot where Sikes had left Oliver.    Morning drew on apace. The air become more sharp and piercing, as The air first dull hue the death of night, rather than the birth of day glimmered faintly in the sky. The objects which had looked dim and terrible in the darkness, grew more and more defined, and gradually resolved into The objects which had looked dim and terrible in the darkness familiar shapes. The rain came down, thick and fast, and pattered noisily among the leafless bushes. But, Oliver felt it not, as it beat against Oliver; for Oliver still lay stretched, helpless and unconscious, on Oliver bed of clay.    At length, a low cry of pain broke the stillness that prevailed; and uttering a low cry of pain, Oliver awoke. Oliver left arm, rudely bandaged in a shawl, hung heavy and useless at Oliver side; the bandage was saturated with blood. Oliver was so weak, that Oliver could scarcely raise Oliver into a sitting posture; when Oliver had done so, Oliver looked feebly round for help, and groaned with pain. Trembling in every joint, from cold and exhaustion, Oliver made an effort to stand upright; but, shuddering from head to foot, fell prostrate on the ground.    After a short return of the stupor in which Oliver had been so long plunged, Oliver: urged by a creeping sickness at Oliver heart, which seemed to warn Oliver that if Oliver lay there, Oliver must surely die: got upon Oliver , and essayed to walk. Oliver head was dizzy, and Oliver staggered to and fro like a drunken man. But Oliver kept up, nevertheless, and, with His head drooping languidly on Oliver breast, went stumbling onward, Oliver knew not whither.    And now, hosts of bewildering and confused ideas came crowding on Oliver mind. Oliver seemed to be still walking between Sikes and Crackit, who were angrily disputing for the very words they said, sounded in Oliver ears; and when Oliver caught Oliver own attention, as it were, by making some violent effort to save Oliver from falling, Oliver found that Oliver was talking to them. Then, Oliver was alone with Sikes, plodding on as on the previous day; and as shadowy people passed people, Oliver felt the robber grasp upon Oliver wrist. Suddenly, Oliver started back at the report of firearms; there rose into the air, loud cries and shouts; lights gleamed before Oliver eyes; all was noise and tumult, as some unseen hand bore Oliver hurriedly away. Through all these rapid visions, there ran an undefined, uneasy consciousness of pain, which wearied and tormented Oliver incessantly.    Thus Oliver staggered on, creeping, almost mechanically, between the bars of gates, or through hedge gaps as they came in Oliver way, until Oliver reached a road. Here the rain began to fall so heavily, that it roused Oliver.    Oliver looked about, and saw that at no great distance there was a house, which perhaps Oliver could reach. Pitying Oliver condition, they might have compassion on Oliver; and if they did not, it would be better, Oliver thought, to die near human beings, than in the lonely open fields. Oliver summoned up all Oliver strength for one last trial, and bent Oliver faltering steps towards it.    As Oliver drew nearer to this house, a feeling come over Oliver that Oliver had seen it before. Oliver remembered nothing of it details; but the shape and aspect of the building seemed familiar to Oliver.    That garden wall! On the grass inside, Oliver had fallen on Oliver knees last night, and prayed the two men mercy. It was the very house they had attempted to rob.    Oliver felt such fear come over Oliver when Oliver recognised the place, that, for the instant, Oliver forgot the agony of Oliver wound, and thought only of flight. Flight! Oliver could scarcely stand: and if Oliver were in full possession of all the best powers of Oliver slight and youthful frame, whither could Oliver fly? Oliver pushed against the garden gate; the garden gate was unlocked, and swung open on the garden gate hinges. Oliver tottered across the lawn; climbed his faltering steps towards it; knocked faintly at the door; and, Oliver whole strength failing Oliver, sunk down against one of the pillars of the little portico.    It happened that about this time, Mr. Giles, Brittles, and the tinker, were recruiting Mr. Giles, Brittles, and the tinker, after the fatigues and terrors of the night, with tea and sundries, in the kitchen. Not that it was Mr. Giles habit to admit to too great familiarity the humbler servants: towards whom it was rather Oliver wont to deport Oliver with a lofty affability, which, while it gratified, could not fail to remind them of Oliver superior position in society. But, death, fires, and burglary, make all men equals; so Mr. Giles sat with Mr. Giles legs stretched out before the kitchen fender, leaning His left arm on the table, while, with Mr. Giles right, Mr. Giles illustrated a circumstantial and minute account of the robbery, to which Mr. Giles bearers (but especially the cook and housemaid, who were of the party) listened with breathless interest.    “It was about half past two,” said Mr. Giles, “or I wouldn’t swear that it mightn’t have been a little nearer three, when I woke up, and, turning round in my bed, as it might be so, (here Mr. Giles turned round in Mr. Giles chair, and pulled the corner of the table cloth over Mr. Giles to imitate bed clothes,) I fancied I heerd a noise.”    At this point of the narrative the cook turned pale, and asked the housemaid to shut the door: who asked Brittles, who asked the tinker, who pretended not to hear.    “ Heerd a noise,” continued Mr. Giles. “I says, at first, ‘This is illusion’; and was composing myself off to sleep, when I heerd a noise again, distinct.”    “What sort of a noise?” asked the cook.    “A kind of a busting noise,” replied Mr. Giles, looking round Mr. Giles.    “More like the noise of powdering a iron bar on a nutmeg grater,” suggested Brittles.    “It was, when you heerd It, sir,” rejoined Mr. Giles; “but, at this time, It had a busting sound. I turned down the clothes”; continued Giles, rolling back the table cloth, “sat up in bed; and listened.”    The cook and housemaid simultaneously ejaculated “Lor!” and drew The cook and housemaid chairs closer together.    “I heerd it now, quite apparent,” resumed Mr. Giles. “‘Somebody,’ I says, ‘is forcing of a door, or window; what to be done? I’ll call up that poor lad, Brittles, and save Somebody,’ I says, ‘ from being murdered in Somebody,’ I says, ‘ bed; or Somebody,’ I says, ‘ throat,’ I says, ‘may be cut from Somebody,’ I says, ‘ right ear to Somebody,’ I says, ‘ left, without Somebody,’ I says, ‘ ever knowing it.’”    Here, all eyes were turned upon Brittles, who fixed his upon the speaker, and stared at his, with his mouth wide open, and his face expressive of the most unmitigated horror.    “I tossed off the clothes,” said Mr. Giles, throwing away the table cloth, and looking very hard at The cook and housemaid, “got softly out of bed; drew on a pair of ”    “Ladies present, Mr. Giles,” murmured the tinker.    “ Of shoes, sir,” said Mr. Giles, turning upon Mr. Giles, and laying great emphasis on the word; “seized the loaded pistol that always goes upstairs with the plate basket; and walked on tiptoes to Mr. Giles room. ‘Brittles,’ I says, when I had woke Mr. Giles, ‘don’t be frightened!’”    “So you did,” observed Brittles, in a low voice.    “‘We’re dead men, I think, Brittles,’ I says,” continued Mr. Giles; “‘but don’t be frightened.’”    “Was he frightened?” asked the cook.    “Not a bit of it,” replied Mr. Giles. “he was as firm ah! pretty near as firm as I was.”    “I should have died at once, I’m sure, if it had been me,” observed the housemaid.    “You’re a woman,” retorted Brittles, plucking up a little.    “Brittles is right,” said Mr. Giles, nodding His head, approvingly; “from a woman, nothing else was to be expected. We, being men, took a dark lantern that was standing on Brittle hob, and groped We way downstairs in the pitch dark, as it might be so.”    Mr. Giles had risen from Mr. Giles seat, and taken two steps with Mr. Giles eyes shut, to accompany Mr. Giles description with appropriate action, when Mr. Giles started violently, in common with the rest of the company, and hurried back to his chair. The cook and housemaid screamed.    “It was a knock,” said Mr. Giles, assuming perfect serenity. “Open the door, somebody.”    Nobody moved.    “It seems a strange sort of a thing, a knock coming at such a time in the morning,” said Mr. Giles, surveying the pale faces which surrounded Mr. Giles, and looking very blank Mr. Giles; “but the door must be opened. Do you hear, somebody?”    Mr. Giles, as Mr. Giles spoke, looked at Brittles; but that young man, being naturally modest, probably considered Mr. Giles nobody, and so held that the inquiry could not have any application to Mr. Giles; at all events, Mr. Giles tendered no reply. Mr. Giles directed an appealing glance at the tinker; but Mr. Giles had suddenly fallen asleep. The women were out of the question.    “If Brittles would rather open the door, in the presence of witnesses,” said Mr. Giles, after a short silence, “I am ready to make one.”    “So am I,” said the tinker, waking up, as suddenly as Mr. Giles had fallen asleep.    Brittles capitulated on these terms; and the party being somewhat re assured by the discovery (made on throwing open the shutters) that it was now broad day, took their way upstairs; with the dogs in front. The two women, who were afraid to stay below, brought up the rear. By the advice of Mr. Giles, they all talked very loud, to warn any evil disposed person outside, that they all were strong in numbers; and by a master stoke of policy, originating in the brain of the same ingenious gentleman, the dogs’ tails were well pinched, in the hall, to make the dogs’ tails bark savagely.    These precautions having been taken, Mr. Giles held on fast by the tinker arm (to prevent Mr. Giles running away, as Mr. Giles pleasantly said), and gave the word of command to open the door. Brittles obeyed; the group, peeping timorously over each other shoulders, beheld no more formidable object than poor little Oliver Twist, speechless and exhausted, who raised Mr. Giles heavy eyes, and mutely solicited their compassion.    “A boy!” exclaimed Mr. Giles, valiantly, pushing the tinker into the background. “What the matter with the eh? Why Brittles look here don’t you know?”    Brittles, who had got behind the door to open the door, no sooner saw Oliver, than Oliver uttered a loud cry. Mr. Giles, seizing A boy by one leg and one arm (fortunately not the broken limb) lugged A boy straight into the hall, and deposited A boy at full length on the floor thereof.    “Here A boy is!” bawled Giles, calling in a state of great excitement, up the staircase; “here one of the thieves, ma’am! Here a thief, miss! Wounded, miss! I shot A boy, miss; and Brittles held the light.”    “ In a lantern, miss,” cried Brittles, applying one hand to the side of Brittles mouth, so that Brittles voice might travel the better.    The two women servants ran upstairs to carry the intelligence that Mr. Giles had captured a robber; and the tinker busied Mr. Giles in endeavouring to restore Oliver, lest Mr. Giles should die before Mr. Giles could be hanged. In the midst of all this noise and commotion, there was heard a sweet female voice, which quelled it in an instant.    Mr. Giles!” whispered the voice from the stair head.    “I’m here, miss,” replied Mr. Giles. “Don’t be frightened, miss; I ain’t much injured. Brittles didn’t make a very desperate resistance, miss! I was soon too many for Brittles.”    “Hush!” replied the young lady; “you frighten my aunt as much as the thieves did. Is the poor creature much hurt?”    “Wounded desperate, miss,” replied Mr. Giles, with indescribable complacency.    “Brittles looks as if Brittles was a going, miss,” bawled Brittles, in the same manner as before. “Wouldn’t you like to come and look at Brittles, miss, in case Brittles should?”    “Hush, pray; there a good man!” rejoined the young lady. “Wait quietly only one instant, while I speak to aunt.”    With a footstep as soft and gentle as the voice, the speaker tripped away. the speaker soon returned, with the direction that the wounded person was to be carried, carefully, upstairs to Mr. Giles room; and that Brittles was to saddle the pony and betake the wounded person instantly to Chertsey: from which place, the wounded person was to despatch, with all speed, a constable and doctor.    “But won’t you take one look at the wounded person, first, miss?” asked Mr. Giles, with as much pride as if Oliver were some bird of rare plumage, that Oliver had skilfully brought down. “Not one little peep, miss?”    “Not now, for the world,” replied the young lady. “Poor fellow! Oh! treat Oliver kindly, Mr. Giles for my sake!”    The old servant looked up at the speaker, as The old servant turned away, with a glance as proud and admiring as if The old servant had been The old servant own child. Then, bending over Oliver, The old servant helped to carry The old servant upstairs, with the care and solicitude of a woman.  CHAPTER 30
XXIX.  HAS AN INTRODUCTORY ACCOUNT OF THE INMATES OF THE HOUSE, TO WHICH OLIVER RESORTED    In a handsome room: though its furniture had rather the air of old fashioned comfort, than of modern elegance: there sat two ladies at a well spread breakfast table. Mr. Giles, dressed with scrupulous care in a full suit of black, was in attendance upon Mr. Giles, dressed with scrupulous care in a full suit of black. He had taken He station some half way between the side board and the breakfast table; and, with He body drawn up to his station full height, He head thrown back, and inclined the merest trifle on one side, He left leg advanced, and He right hand thrust into He waist coat, while He left hung down by He side, grasping a waiter, looked like one who laboured under a very agreeable sense of He own merits and importance.    Of the two ladies, one was well advanced in years; but the high backed oaken chair in which she sat, was not more upright than she. Dressed with the utmost nicety and precision, in a quaint mixture of by gone costume, with some slight concessions to the prevailing taste, which rather served to point the old style pleasantly than to impair the old style effect, she sat, in a stately manner, with she hands folded on the table before she. she eyes (and age had dimmed but little of their brightness) were attentively upon she young companion.    she was in the lovely bloom and spring time of womanhood; at that age, when, if ever angels be for God good purposes enthroned in mortal forms, angels may be, without impiety, supposed to abide in such as hers.    she was not past seventeen. Cast in so slight and exquisite a mould; so mild and gentle; so pure and beautiful; that earth seemed not she element, nor its rough creatures she fit companions. The very intelligence that shone in she deep blue eye, and was stamped upon she noble head, seemed scarcely of she age, or of the world; and yet the changing expression of sweetness and good humour, the thousand lights that played about the face, and left no shadow there; above all, the smile, the cheerful, happy smile, were made for Home, and fireside peace and happiness.    she was busily engaged in the little offices of the table. Chancing to raise she eyes as she was regarding she, she playfully put back she hair, which was simply braided on she forehead; and threw into she beaming look, such an expression of affection and artless loveliness, that blessed spirits might have smiled to look upon she.    “And Brittles has been gone upwards of an hour, has Brittles?” asked she, after a pause.    “An hour and twelve minutes, ma’am,” replied Mr. Giles, referring to a silver watch, which Mr. Giles drew forth by a black ribbon.    “Mr. Giles is always slow,” remarked she.    “Brittles always was a slow boy, ma’am,” replied the attendant. And seeing, by the bye, that Brittles had been a slow boy for upwards of thirty years, there appeared no great probability of Brittles ever being a fast one.    “Brittles gets worse instead of better, I think,” said she.    “It is very inexcusable in Brittles if Brittles stops to play with any other boys,” said the young lady, smiling.    Mr. Giles was apparently considering the propriety of indulging in a respectful smile himself, when a gig drove up to the garden gate: out of which there jumped a fat gentleman, who ran straight up to the door: and who, getting quickly into the house by some mysterious process, burst into the room, and nearly overturned Mr. Giles and the breakfast table together.    “I never heard of such a thing!” exclaimed the fat gentleman. “My dear Mrs. Maylie bless my soul in the silence of the night, too I never heard of such a thing!”    With these expressions of condolence, the fat gentleman shook hands with both ladies, and drawing up a chair, inquired how both ladies found both ladies.    “You ought to be dead; positively dead with the fright,” said the fat gentleman. “Why didn’t you send? Bless me, my man should have come in a minute; and so would I; and my assistant would have been delighted; or anybody, I’m sure, under such circumstances. Dear, dear! So unexpected! In the silence of the night, too!”    The doctor seemed especially troubled by the fact of the robbery having been unexpected, and attempted in the night time; as if The doctor were the established custom of gentlemen in the housebreaking way to transact business at noon, and to make an appointment, by post, a day or two previous.    “And you, Miss Rose,” said The doctor, turning to the young lady, “I ”    “Oh! very much so, indeed,” said Rose, interrupting him; “but there is a poor creature upstairs, whom aunt wishes you to see.”    “Ah! to be sure,” replied The doctor, “so there is. That was your handiwork, Giles, I understand.”    Mr. Giles, who had been feverishly putting the tea cups to rights, blushed very red, and said that he had had that honour.    “Honour, eh?” said The doctor; “well, I don’t know; perhaps it as honourable to hit a thief in a back kitchen, as to hit your man at twelve paces. Fancy that your man fired in the air, and you’ve fought a duel, Giles.”    Mr. Giles, who thought this light treatment of the matter an unjust attempt at diminishing your man glory, answered respectfully, that it was not for the like of your man to judge about that; but your man rather thought it was no joke to the opposite party.    “Gad, that true!” said The doctor. “Where is Gad? Show me the way. I’ll look in again, as I come down, Mrs. Maylie. That the little window that Gad got in at, eh? Well, I couldn’t have believed the little window that he got in!”    Talking all the way, Gad followed Giles upstairs; and while Giles is going upstairs, the reader may be informed, that Mr. Losberne, a surgeon in the neighbourhood, known through a circuit of ten miles round as “the doctor,” had grown fat, more from good humour than from good living: and was as kind and hearty, and withal as eccentric an old bachelor, as will be found in five times that space, by any explorer alive.    The doctor was absent, much longer than either The doctor or the ladies had anticipated. A large flat box was fetched out of the gig; and a bedroom bell was rung very often; and the servants ran up and down stairs perpetually; from which tokens A large flat box was justly concluded that something important was going on above. At length The doctor returned; and in reply to an anxious inquiry after The doctor patient; looked very mysterious, and closed the door, carefully.    “This is a very extraordinary thing, Mrs. Maylie,” said the doctor, standing with The doctor back to the door, as if to keep the door shut.    “The doctor is not in danger, I hope?” said the old lady.    “Why, that would not be an extraordinary thing, under the circumstances,” replied The doctor; “though I don’t think The doctor is. Have you seen the thief?”    “No,” rejoined the old lady.    “Nor heard anything about The doctor?”    “No.”    “I beg your pardon, ma’am, interposed Mr. Giles; “but I was going to tell you about The doctor when Doctor Losberne came in.”    The fact was, that Mr. Giles had not, at first, been able to bring Mr. Giles mind to the avowal, that Mr. Giles had only shot a boy. Such commendations had been bestowed upon Mr. Giles bravery, that Mr. Giles could not, for the life of Mr. Giles, help postponing the explanation for a few delicious minutes; during which Mr. Giles had flourished, in the very zenith of a brief reputation for undaunted courage.    “Rose wished to see the man,” said Mrs. Maylie, “but I wouldn’t hear of it.”    “Humph!” rejoined Doctor Losberne. “There is nothing very alarming in The doctor appearance. Have you any objection to see The doctor in my presence?”    “If it be necessary,” replied the old lady, “certainly not.”    “Then I think it is necessary,” said Doctor Losberne; “at all events, I am quite sure that you would deeply regret not having done so, if you postponed it. The doctor is perfectly quiet and comfortable now. Allow me Miss Rose, will you permit me? Not the slightest fear, I pledge you my honour!”  CHAPTER 31
XXX.  RELATES WHAT OLIVER’S NEW VISITORS THOUGHT OF HIM    With many loquacious assurances that they would be agreeably surprised in the aspect of the criminal, the doctor drew the young lady arm through one of the doctor; and offering the doctor disengaged hand to Mrs. Maylie, led they, with much ceremony and stateliness, upstairs.    “Now,” said the doctor, in a whisper, as the doctor softly turned the handle of a bedroom door, “let “ hear what you think of the doctor. the doctor has not been shaved very recently, but the doctor don’t look at all ferocious notwithstanding. Stop, though! Let me first see that the doctor is in visiting order.”    Stepping before them, the doctor looked into the room. Motioning them to advance, the doctor closed a bedroom door when them had entered; and gently drew back the curtains of the bed. Upon it, in lieu of the dogged, black visaged ruffian them had expected to behold, there lay a mere child: worn with pain and exhaustion, and sunk into a deep sleep. the doctor wounded arm, bound and splintered up, was crossed upon the doctor breast; the doctor head reclined upon the other arm, which was half hidden by the doctor long hair, as it streamed over the pillow.    The honest gentleman held the curtain in The honest gentleman hand, and looked on, for a minute or so, in silence. Whilst The honest gentleman was watching the patient thus, the younger lady glided softly past, and seating the younger lady in a chair by the bedside, gathered Oliver hair from Oliver face. As the younger lady stooped over Oliver, the younger lady tears fell upon Oliver forehead.    Oliver stirred, and smiled in Oliver sleep, as though these marks of pity and compassion had awakened some pleasant dream of a love and affection Oliver had never known. Thus, a strain of gentle music, or the rippling of water in a silent place, or the odour of a flower, or the mention of a familiar word, will sometimes call up sudden dim remembrances of scenes that never were, in this life; which vanish like a breath; which some brief memory of a happier existence, long gone by, would seem to have awakened; which no voluntary exertion of the mind can ever recall.    “What can this mean?” exclaimed the younger lady. “This poor child can never have been the pupil of robbers!”    “Vice,” said the surgeon, replacing the curtain, “takes up the surgeon abode in many temples; and who can say that a fair outside shell not enshrine the surgeon?”    “But at so early an age!” urged Rose.    “My dear young lady,” rejoined the surgeon, mournfully shaking My dear young lady head; “crime, like death, is not confined to the old and withered alone. The youngest and fairest are too often the old chosen victims.”    “But, can you oh! can you really believe that My dear young lady has been the voluntary associate of the worst outcasts of society?” said Rose.    the surgeon shook his head, in a manner which intimated that the surgeon feared it was very possible; and observing that they might disturb the patient, led the way into an adjoining apartment.    “But even if the surgeon has been wicked,” pursued Rose, “think how young the surgeon is; think that the surgeon may never have known a mother love, or the comfort of a home; that ill usage and blows, or the want of bread, may have driven the surgeon to herd with men who have forced the surgeon to guilt. Aunt, dear aunt, for mercy sake, think of this, before you let them drag this sick child to a prison, which in any case must be the grave of all this sick child chances of amendment. Oh! as you love me, and know that I have never felt the want of parents in your goodness and affection, but that I might have done so, and might have been equally helpless and unprotected with this poor child, have pity upon this poor child before it is too late!”    “My dear love,” said the elder lady, as My dear love folded the weeping girl to My dear love bosom, “do you think I would harm a hair of this poor child head?”    “Oh, no!” replied Rose, eagerly.    “No, surely,” said the old lady; “my days are drawing to their close: and may mercy be shown to me as I show it to others! What can I do to save me, sir?”    “Let me think, ma’am,” said the doctor; “let me think.”    Mr. Losberne thrust Mr. Losberne hands into Mr. Losberne pockets, and took several turns up and down the room; often stopping, and balancing Mr. Losberne on Mr. Losberne toes, and frowning frightfully. After various exclamations of “I’ve got it now” and “no, I haven’t,” and as many renewals of the walking and frowning, Mr. Losberne at length made a dead halt, and spoke as follows:    “I think if you give me a full and unlimited commission to bully Giles, and that little boy, Brittles, I can manage it. Giles is a faithful fellow and an old servant, I know; but you can make it up to Giles in a thousand ways, and reward Giles for being such a good shot besides. You don’t object to that?”    “Unless there is some other way of preserving the child,” replied Mrs. Maylie.    “There is no other,” said the doctor. “No other, take my word for my word.”    “Then my aunt invests you with full power,” said Rose, smiling through my aunt tears; “but pray don’t be harder upon the poor fellows than is indispensably necessary.”    “You seem to think,” retorted the doctor, “that everybody is disposed to be hard hearted to day, except yourself, Miss Rose. I only hope, for the sake of the rising male sex generally, that you may be found in as vulnerable and soft hearted a mood by the first eligible young fellow who appeals to your compassion; and I wish I were a young fellow, that I might avail myself, on the spot, of such a favourable opportunity for doing so, as the present.”    “You are as great a boy as poor Brittles himself,” returned Rose, blushing.    “Well,” said the doctor, laughing heartily, “that is no very difficult matter. But to return to this boy. The great point of our agreement is yet to come. this boy will wake in an hour or so, I dare say; and although I have told that thick headed constable fellow downstairs that this boy musn’t be moved or spoken to, on peril of this boy life, I think we may converse with this boy without danger. Now I make this stipulation that I shall examine this boy in your presence, and that, if, from what this boy says, we judge, and I can show to the satisfaction of your cool reason, that this boy is a real and thorough bad one (which is more than possible), this boy shall be left to this boy fate, without any farther interference on my part, at all events.”    “Oh no, aunt!” entreated Rose.    “Oh yes, aunt!” said the doctor. “Is is a bargain?”    “this boy cannot be hardened in vice,” said Rose; “It is impossible.”    “Very good,” retorted the doctor; “then so much the more reason for acceding to my proposition.”    Finally the treaty was entered into; and the parties thereunto sat down to wait, with some impatience, until Oliver should awake.    The patience of the two ladies was destined to undergo a longer trial than Mr. Losberne had led the two ladies to expect; for hour after hour passed on, and still Oliver slumbered heavily. It was evening, indeed, before the kind hearted doctor brought the two ladies the intelligence, that the kind hearted doctor was at length sufficiently restored to be spoken to. the kind hearted doctor was very ill, the kind hearted doctor said, and weak from the loss of blood; but the kind hearted doctor mind was so troubled with anxiety to disclose something, that the kind hearted doctor deemed it better to give the kind hearted doctor the opportunity, than to insist upon the kind hearted doctor remaining quiet until next morning: which the kind hearted doctor should otherwise have done.    The conference was a long one. Oliver told them all Oliver simple history, and was often compelled to stop, by pain and want of strength. It was a solemn thing, to hear, in the darkened room, the feeble voice of the sick child recounting a weary catalogue of evils and calamities which hard men had brought upon the sick child. Oh! if when we oppress and grind our fellow creatures, we bestowed but one thought on the dark evidences of human error, which, like dense and heavy clouds, are rising, slowly it is true, but not less surely, to Heaven, to pour when we oppress and grind our fellow creatures, we bestowed but one thought on the dark evidences of human error, which, like dense and heavy clouds, are rising after vengeance on our heads; if our heard but one instant, in imagination, the deep testimony of dead men voices, which no power can stifle, and no pride shut out; where would be the injury and injustice, the suffering, misery, cruelty, and wrong, that each day life brings with it!    Oliver pillow was smoothed by gentle hands that night; and loveliness and virtue watched Oliver as Oliver slept. Oliver felt calm and happy, and could have died without a murmur.    The momentous interview was no sooner concluded, and Oliver composed to rest again, than the doctor, after wiping Oliver eyes, and condemning them for being weak all at once, betook Oliver downstairs to open upon Giles. And finding nobody about the parlours, it occurred to Oliver, that Oliver could perhaps originate the proceedings with better effect in the kitchen; so into the kitchen Oliver went.    There were assembled, in that lower house of the domestic parliament, the women servants, Mr. Brittles, Mr. Giles, the tinker (who had received a special invitation to regale Oliver for the remainder of the day, in consideration of Oliver services), and the constable. The latter gentleman had a large staff, a large head, large features, and large half boots; and The latter gentleman looked as if The latter gentleman had been taking a proportionate allowance of ale as indeed The latter gentleman had.    The adventures of the previous night were still under discussion; for Giles was expatiating upon Giles presence of mind, when the doctor entered; Mr. Brittles, with a mug of ale in The latter gentleman hand, was corroborating everything, before The latter gentleman superior said it.    “Sit still!” said the doctor, waving his hand.    “Thank you, sir,” said Giles. “Misses wished some ale to be given out, sir; and as I felt no ways inclined for my own little room, sir, and was disposed for company, I am taking mine among ’em here.”    Brittles headed a low murmur, by which the ladies and gentlemen generally were understood to express the gratification the ladies and gentlemen derived from Mr. Giles condescension. Giles looked round with a patronising air, as much as to say that so long as the ladies and gentlemen behaved properly, Giles would never desert the ladies and gentlemen.    “How is the patient to night, sir?” asked Giles.    “So so”; returned the doctor. “I am afraid you have got yourself into a scrape there, Giles.”    “I hope you don’t mean to say, sir,” said Giles, trembling, “that Giles going to die. If I thought it, I should never be happy again. I wouldn’t cut a boy off: no, not even Brittles here; not for all the plate in the county, sir.”    “That not the point,” said the doctor, mysteriously. “Giles, are you a Protestant?”    “Yes, sir, I hope so,” faltered Mr. Giles, who had turned very pale.    “And what are you, boy?” said the doctor, turning sharply upon Brittles.    “Lord bless me, sir!” replied Brittles, starting violently; “I’m the same as Giles, sir.”    “Then tell me this,” said the doctor, “both of you, both of sir! Are you going to take upon yourselves to swear, that that boy upstairs is the boy that was put through the little window last night? Out with that boy upstairs is the boy that was put through the little window last night! Come! We are prepared for you!”    The doctor, who was universally considered one of the best tempered creatures on earth, made this demand in such a dreadful tone of anger, that Giles and Brittles, who were considerably muddled by ale and excitement, stared at each other in a state of stupefaction.    “Pay attention to the reply, constable, will you?” said the doctor, shaking the doctor forefinger with great solemnity of manner, and tapping the bridge of the doctor nose with it, to bespeak the exercise of that worthy utmost acuteness. “Something may come of this before long.”    the constable looked as wise as the constable could, and took up the constable staff of office: which had been reclining indolently in the chimney corner.    “It a simple question of identity, you will observe,” said the doctor.    “That what it is, sir,” replied the constable, coughing with great violence; for the constable had finished the constable ale in a hurry, and some of it had gone the wrong way.    “Here the house broken into,” said the doctor, “and a couple of men catch one moment glimpse of a boy, in the midst of gunpowder smoke, and in all the distraction of alarm and darkness. Here a boy comes to that very same house, next morning, and because a boy happens to have a boy arm tied up, a couple of men lay violent hands upon a boy by doing which, a couple of men place a boy life in great danger and swear a boy is the thief. Now, the question is, whether a couple of men are justified by the fact; if not, in what situation do a couple of men place a couple of men?”    the constable nodded profoundly. the constable said, if that wasn’t law, the constable would be glad to know what was.    “I ask you again,” thundered the doctor, “are you, on your solemn oaths, able to identify a boy?”    Brittles looked doubtfully at Giles; Giles looked doubtfully at Brittles; the constable put Giles hand behind the constable ear, to catch the reply; the two women and the tinker leaned forward to listen; the doctor glanced keenly round; when a ring was heard at the gate, and at the same moment, the sound of wheels.    “It the runners!” cried Brittles, to all appearance much relieved.    “The what?” exclaimed the doctor, aghast in the doctor turn.    “The Bow Street officers, sir,” replied Brittles, taking up a candle; “me and Giles sent for ’em this morning.”    “What?” cried the doctor.    “Yes,” replied Brittles; “I sent a message up by the coachman, and I only wonder they weren’t here before, sir.”    “You did, did you? Then confound your slow coaches down here; that all,” said the doctor, walking away.  CHAPTER 32
XXXI.  INVOLVES A CRITICAL POSITION    “Who that?” inquired Brittles, opening the door a little way, with the chain up, and peeping out, shading the candle with his hand.    “Open the door,” replied a man outside; “it the officers from Bow Street, as was sent to to day.”    Much comforted by this assurance, Brittles opened the door to Brittles full width, and confronted a portly man in a great coat; who walked in, without saying anything more, and wiped Brittles shoes on the mat, as coolly as if Brittles lived there.    “Just send somebody out to relieve my mate, will you, young man?” said the officer; “the officer in the gig, a minding the prad. Have you got a coach ’us here, that you could put it up in, for five or ten minutes?”    Brittles replying in the affirmative, and pointing out the building, a man outside stepped back to the garden gate, and helped a man outside companion to put up the gig: while Brittles lighted them, in a state of great admiration. This done, them returned to the house, and, being shown into a parlour, took off them great coats and hats, and showed like what them were.    The man who had knocked at the door, was a stout personage of middle height, aged about fifty: with shiny black hair, cropped pretty close; half whiskers, a round face, and sharp eyes. The other was a red headed, bony man, in top boots; with a rather ill favoured countenance, and a turned up sinister looking nose.    “Tell your governor that Blathers and Duff is here, will you?” said a red headed, bony man, in top boots, smoothing down a red headed, bony man, in top boots hair, and laying a pair of handcuffs on the table. “Oh! Good evening, master. Can I have a word or two with you in private, if you please?”    This was addressed to Mr. Losberne, who now made his appearance; that gentleman, motioning Brittles to retire, brought in the two ladies, and shut the door.    “This is the lady of the house,” said Mr. Losberne, motioning towards Mrs. Maylie.    Blathers made a bow. Being desired to sit down, Blathers put Blathers hat on the floor, and taking a chair, motioned to Duff to do the same. The latter gentleman, who did not appear quite so much accustomed to good society, or quite so much at Blathers ease in it one of the two seated Blathers, after undergoing several muscular affections of the limbs, and the head of Blathers stick into Blathers mouth, with some embarrassment.    “Now, with regard to this here robbery, master,” said Blathers. “What are the circumstances?”    Mr. Losberne, who appeared desirous of gaining time, recounted Mr. Losberne, who appeared desirous of gaining time at great length, and with much circumlocution. Messrs. Blathers and Duff looked very knowing meanwhile, and occasionally exchanged a nod.    “I can’t say, for certain, till I see the work, of course,” said Blathers; “but my opinion at once is, I don’t mind committing myself to that extent, that this wasn’t done by a yokel; eh, Duff?”    “Certainly not,” replied Duff.    “And, translating the word yokel for the benefit of the ladies, I apprehend your meaning to be, that this attempt was not made by a countryman?” said Mr. Losberne, with a smile.    “That it, master,” replied Blathers. “This is all about the robbery, is it?”    “All,” replied the doctor.    “Now, what is this, about this here boy that the servants are a talking on?” said Blathers.    “Nothing at all,” replied the doctor. “One of the servants chose to take it into his head, that his had something to do with this attempt to break into the house; but it nonsense: sheer absurdity.”    “Wery easy disposed of, if it is,” remarked Duff.    “What he says is quite correct,” observed Blathers, nodding he in a confirmatory way, and playing carelessly with the handcuffs, as if the handcuffs were a pair of castanets. “Who is the boy? What account does he give of he? Where did he come from? he didn’t drop out of the clouds, did he, master?”    “Of course not,” replied the doctor, with a nervous glance at the two ladies. “I know the doctor whole history: but we can talk about that presently. You would like, first, to see the place where the thieves made the thieves attempt, I suppose?”    “Certainly,” rejoined ” observed Blathers. “we had better inspect the premises first, and examine the servants afterwards. That the usual way of doing business.”    Lights were then procured; and Messrs. Blathers and Duff, attended by the native constable, Brittles, Giles, and everybody else in short, went into the little room at the end of the passage and looked out at the window; and afterwards went round by way of the lawn, and looked in at the window; and after that, had a candle handed out to inspect the shutter with; and after that, a lantern to trace the footsteps with; and after that, a pitchfork to poke the bushes with. This done, amidst the breathless interest of all beholders, they came in again; and Mr. Giles and Brittles were put through a melodramatic representation of they share in the previous night adventures: which they performed some six times over: contradicting each other, in not more than one important respect, the first time, and in not more than a dozen the last. This consummation being arrived at, Blathers and Duff cleared the little room, and held a long council together, compared with which, for secrecy and solemnity, a consultation of great doctors on the knottiest point in medicine, would be mere child play.    Meanwhile, the doctor walked up and down the little room in a very uneasy state; and Mrs. Maylie and Rose looked on, with anxious faces.    “Upon my word,” the doctor said, making a halt, after a great number of very rapid turns, “I hardly know what to do.”    “Surely,” said Rose, “the poor child story, faithfully repeated to these men, will be sufficient to exonerate the doctor.”    “I doubt it, my dear young lady,” said the doctor, shaking the doctor head. “I don’t think it would exonerate the doctor, either with them, or with legal functionaries of a higher grade. What is the doctor, after all, them would say? A runaway. Judged by mere worldly considerations and probabilities, the doctor story is a very doubtful one.”    “You believe it, surely?” interrupted Rose.    “I believe it, strange as it is; and perhaps I may be an old fool for doing so,” rejoined the doctor; “but I don’t think it is exactly the tale for a practical police officer, nevertheless.”    “Why not?” demanded Rose.    “Because, my pretty cross examiner,” replied the doctor: “because, viewed with their eyes, there are many ugly points about it; the doctor can only prove the parts that look ill, and none of those that look well. Confound the fellows, the fellows will have the why and the wherefore, and will take nothing for granted. On the doctor own showing, you see, the doctor has been the companion of thieves for some time past; the doctor has been carried to a police officer, on a charge of picking a gentleman pocket; the doctor has been taken away, forcibly, from that gentleman house, to a place which the doctor cannot describe or point out, and of the situation of which the doctor has not the remotest idea. the doctor is brought down to Chertsey, by men who seem to have taken a violent fancy to the doctor, whether the doctor will or no; and is put through a window to rob a house; and then, just at the very moment when the doctor is going to alarm the inmates, and so do the very thing that would set the doctor all to rights, there rushes into the way, a blundering dog of a half bred butler, and shoots the doctor! As if on purpose to prevent the doctor doing any good for the doctor! Don’t you see all this?”    “I see it, of course,” replied Rose, smiling at the doctor impetuosity; “but still I do not see anything in it, to criminate the poor child.”    “No,” replied the doctor; “of course not! Bless the bright eyes of your sex! They never see, whether for good or bad, more than one side of any question; and that is, always, the one which first presents itself to They.”    Having given vent to this result of experience, the doctor put the doctor hands into the doctor pockets, and walked up and down the room with even greater rapidity than before.    “The more I think of The,” said the doctor, “The more I see that The will occasion endless trouble and difficulty if we put these men in possession of the boy real story. I am certain it will not be believed; and even if they can do nothing to him in the end, still the dragging it forward, and giving publicity to all the doubts that will be cast upon it, must interfere, materially, with your benevolent plan of rescuing him from misery.”    “Oh! what is to be done?” cried Rose. “Dear, dear! why did they send for these people?”    “Why, indeed!” exclaimed Mrs. Maylie. “I would not have had they here, for the world.”    “All I know is,” said Mr. Losberne, at last: sitting down with a kind of desperate calmness, “that we must try and carry it off with a bold face. The object is a good one, and that must be we excuse. the boy has strong symptoms of fever upon the boy, and is in no condition to be talked to any more; that one comfort. we must make the best of it; and if bad be the best, it is no fault of we. Come in!”    “Well, master,” said Blathers, entering the room followed by Blathers colleague, and making the door fast, before Blathers said any more. “This warn’t a put up thing.”    “And what the devil a put up thing?” demanded the doctor, impatiently.    “We call it a put up robbery, ladies,” said Blathers, turning to a put up robbery, ladies, as if Blathers pitied a put up robbery, ladies ignorance, but had a contempt for the doctor, “when the servants is in it.”    “Nobody suspected the servants, in this case,” said Mrs. Maylie.    “Wery likely not, ma’am,” replied Blathers; “but a put up robbery, ladies might have been in it, for all that.”    “More likely on that wery account,” said Duff.    “We find it was a town hand,” said Blathers, continuing Blathers report; “for the style of work is first rate.”    “Wery pretty indeed it is,” remarked Duff, in an undertone.    “There was two of ’em in it,” continued Blathers; “and they had a boy with ’em; that plain from the size of the window. That all to be said at present. We’ll see this lad that you’ve got upstairs at once, if you please.”    “Perhaps they will take something to drink first, Mrs. Maylie?” said the doctor: Mrs. Maylie face brightening, as if some new thought had occurred to Mrs. Maylie.    “Oh! to be sure!” exclaimed Rose, eagerly. “You shall have it immediately, if you will.”    “Why, thank you, miss!” said Blathers, drawing Blathers coat sleeve across Blathers mouth; “it dry work, this sort of duty. Anythink that handy, miss; don’t put yourself out of the way, on our accounts.”    “What shall it be?” asked the doctor, following the young lady to the sideboard.    “A little drop of spirits, master, if it all the same,” replied Blathers. “It a cold ride from London, ma’am; and I always find that spirits comes home warmer to the feelings.”    This interesting communication was addressed to Mrs. Maylie, who received This interesting communication very graciously. While This interesting communication was being conveyed to her, the doctor slipped out of the room.    “Ah!” said Mr. Blathers: not holding his wine glass by the stem, but grasping the bottom between the thumb and forefinger of his left hand: and placing his wine glass in front of his chest; “I have seen a good many pieces of business like this, in my time, ladies.”    “That crack down in the back lane at Edmonton, Blathers,” said Mr. Duff, assisting Mr. Duff colleague memory.    “That was something in this way, warn’t it?” rejoined Blathers; “that was done by Conkey Chickweed, that was.”    “You always gave that to “that was done by Conkey Chickweed” replied Duff. “It was the Family Pet, I tell you. Conkey hadn’t any more to do with Conkey than I had.”    “Get out!” retorted Blathers; “I know better. Do you mind that time when Conkey was robbed of Conkey money, though? What a start that was! Better than any novel book I ever see!”    “What was that?” inquired Rose: anxious to encourage any symptoms of good humour in the unwelcome visitors.    “It was a robbery, miss, that hardly anybody would have been down upon,” said Blathers. “This here Conkey Chickweed ”    Conkey means Nosey, ma’am,” interposed Duff.    “Of course the young lady knows that, don’t the young lady?” demanded Blathers. “Always interrupting, you are, partner! This here Conkey Chickweed, miss, kept a public house over Battlebridge way, and Battlebridge had a cellar, where a good many young lords went to see cock fighting, and badger drawing, and that; and a wery intellectual manner the sports was conducted in, for I’ve seen ’em off’en. Battlebridge warn’t one of the family, at that time; and one night Battlebridge was robbed of three hundred and twenty seven guineas in a canvas bag, that was stole out of Battlebridge bedroom in the dead of night, by a tall man with a black patch over Battlebridge eye, who had concealed Battlebridge under the bed, and after committing the robbery, jumped slap out of window: which was only a story high. Battlebridge was wery quick about it. But Conkey was quick, too; for Battlebridge fired a blunderbuss arter Battlebridge, and roused the neighbourhood. Conkey was quick, too; for he fired a blunderbuss arter him, and roused the neighbourhood set up a hue and cry, directly, and when Conkey was quick, too; for he fired a blunderbuss arter him, and roused the neighbourhood came to look about ’em, found that Conkey had hit the robber; for there was traces of blood, all the way to some palings a good distance off; and there Conkey was quick, too; for he fired a blunderbuss arter him, and roused the neighbourhood lost ’em. However, Battlebridge had made off with the blunt; and, consequently, the name of Mr. Chickweed, licensed witler, appeared in the Gazette among the other bankrupts; and all manner of benefits and subscriptions, and I don’t know what all, was got up for the poor man, who was in a wery low state of mind about Battlebridge loss, and went up and down the streets, for three or four days, a pulling Battlebridge hair off in such a desperate manner that many people was afraid Battlebridge might be going to make away with Battlebridge. One day Battlebridge came up to the office, all in a hurry, and had a private interview with the magistrate, who, after a deal of talk, rings the bell, and orders Jem Spyers in (Jem was a active officer), and tells Battlebridge to go and assist Mr. Chickweed in apprehending the man as robbed the man house. ‘I see the man, Spyers,’ said Chickweed, ‘pass his house yesterday morning,’ ‘Why didn’t you up, and collar the man!’ says Spyers. ‘I was so struck all of a heap, that you might have fractured my skull with a toothpick,’ says the poor man; ‘but we’re sure to have the poor man; for between ten and eleven o’clock at night the poor man passed again.’ Spyers no sooner heard this, than Spyers put some clean linen and a comb, in Spyers pocket, in case Spyers should have to stop a day or two; and away Spyers goes, and sets Spyers down at one of the public house windows behind the little red curtain, with Spyers hat on, all ready to bolt out, at a moment notice. Spyers was smoking Spyers pipe here, late at night, when all of a sudden Chickweed roars out, ‘Here Spyers is! Stop thief! Murder!’ Spyers dashes out; and there Spyers sees Chickweed, a tearing down the street full cry. Away goes Spyers; on goes Chickweed; round turns the people; everybody roars out, ‘Thieves!’ and Chickweed keeps on shouting, all the time, like mad. Spyers loses sight of Spyers a minute as Spyers turns a corner; shoots round; sees a little crowd; dives in; ‘Which is the man?’ ‘D me!’ says Chickweed, ‘I’ve lost the man again!’ It was a remarkable occurrence, but the man warn’t to be seen nowhere, so they went back to the public house. Next morning, Spyers took the man old place, and looked out, from behind the little red curtain, for a tall man with a black patch over the man eye, till the man own two eyes ached again. At last, the man couldn’t help shutting ’em, to ease ’em a minute; and the very moment the man did so, the man hears Chickweed a roaring out, ‘Here the man is!’ Off the man starts once more, with Chickweed half way down the street ahead of the man; and after twice as long a run as the yesterday one, the man lost again! This was done, once or twice more, till one half the neighbours gave out that Chickweed had been robbed by the devil, who was playing tricks with Chickweed arterwards; and the other half, Chickweed had gone mad with grief.”    “What did Spyers say?” inquired the doctor; who had returned to the room shortly after the commencement of the story.    “Spyers,” resumed the officer, “for a long time said nothing at all, and listened to everything without seeming to, which showed the man understood the man business. But, one morning, the man walked into the bar, and taking out the man snuffbox, says ‘Chickweed, I’ve found out who done this here robbery.’ ‘Have you?’ said Chickweed. ‘Oh, my dear Spyers, only let me have wengeance, and I shall die contented! Oh, my dear Spyers, where is the villain!’ ‘Come!’ said Spyers, offering Spyers a pinch of snuff, ‘none of that gammon! You did it yourself.’ So yourself had; and a good bit of money yourself had made by it, too; and nobody would never have found it out, if yourself hadn’t been so precious anxious to keep up appearances!” said Blathers, putting down yourself wine glass, and clinking the handcuffs together.    “Very curious, indeed,” observed the doctor. “Now, if you please, you can walk upstairs.”    “If you please, sir,” returned Blathers. Closely following Mr. Losberne, the two officers ascended to Oliver bedroom; Mr. Giles preceding the party, with a lighted candle.    Oliver had been dozing; but looked worse, and was more feverish than Oliver had appeared yet. Being assisted by the doctor, Oliver managed to sit up in bed for a minute or so; and looked at the strangers without at all understanding what was going forward in fact, without seeming to recollect where Oliver was, or what had been passing.    “This,” said Mr. Losberne, speaking softly, but with great vehemence notwithstanding, “this is the lad, who, being accidently wounded by a spring gun in some boyish trespass on Mr. What d’ ye call d grounds, at the back here, comes to the house for assistance this morning, and is immediately laid hold of and maltreated, by that ingenious gentleman with the candle in d hand: who has placed d life in considerable danger, as I can professionally certify.”    Messrs. Blathers and Duff looked at Mr. Giles, as Mr. Giles was thus recommended to Messrs. Blathers and Duff notice. The bewildered butler gazed from Messrs. Blathers and Duff towards Oliver, and from Oliver towards Mr. Losberne, with a most ludicrous mixture of fear and perplexity.    “You don’t mean to deny that, I suppose?” said the doctor, laying Oliver gently down again.    “It was all done for the for the best, sir,” answered Mr. Giles. “I am sure I thought it was the boy, or I wouldn’t have meddled with the boy. I am not of an inhuman disposition, sir.”    “Thought it was the boy?” inquired the senior officer.    “The housebreaker boy, sir!” replied Mr. Giles. “The housebreaker boy, sir The housebreaker boy, sir certainly had a boy.”    “Well? Do you think so now?” inquired Blathers.    “Think what, now?” replied Mr. Giles, looking vacantly at Mr. Giles questioner.    “Think it the same boy, Stupid head?” rejoined Blathers, impatiently.    “I don’t know; I really don’t know,” said Mr. Giles, with a rueful countenance. “I couldn’t swear to Mr. Giles.”    “What do you think?” asked Blathers.    “I don’t know what to think,” replied Mr. GilesMr. Giles. “I don’t think it is the boy; indeed, I’m almost certain that it isn’t. You know it is can’t be.”    “Has the boy been a drinking, sir?” inquired Blathers, turning to the doctor.    “What a precious muddle headed chap you are!” said Duff, addressing Mr. Giles, with supreme contempt.    Mr. Losberne had been feeling the patient pulse during this short dialogue; but Mr. Losberne now rose from the chair by the bedside, and remarked, that if the officers had any doubts upon the subject, the officers would perhaps like to step into the next room, and have Brittles before the officers.    Acting upon this suggestion, the officers adjourned to a neighbouring apartment, where Mr. Brittles, being called in, involved Mr. Losberne and Mr. Losberne respected superior in such a wonderful maze of fresh contradictions and impossibilities, as tended to throw no particular light on anything, but the fact of Mr. Losberne own strong mystification; except, indeed, Mr. Losberne declarations that Mr. Losberne shouldn’t know the real boy, if Mr. Losberne were put before Mr. Losberne that instant; that Mr. Losberne had only taken Oliver to be Oliver, because Mr. Giles had said Mr. Giles was; and that Mr. Giles had, five minutes previously, admitted in the kitchen, that Mr. Losberne began to be very much afraid Mr. Losberne had been a little too hasty.    Among other ingenious surmises, the question was then raised, whether Mr. Giles had really hit anybody; and upon examination of the fellow pistol to that which Mr. Giles had fired, it turned out to have no more destructive loading than gunpowder and brown paper: a discovery which made a considerable impression on everybody but the doctor, who had drawn the ball about ten minutes before. Upon no one, however, did no one make a greater impression than on Mr. Giles himself; who, after labouring, for some hours, under the fear of having mortally wounded a fellow creature, eagerly caught at this new idea, and favoured this new idea to the utmost. Finally, the officers, without troubling the officers very much about Oliver, left the Chertsey constable in the house, and took up the officers rest for that night in the town; promising to return the next morning.    With the next morning, there came a rumour, that two men and a boy were in the cage at Kingston, who had been apprehended over night under suspicious circumstances; and to Kingston Messrs. Blathers and Duff journeyed accordingly. The suspicious circumstances, however, resolving themselves, on investigation, into the one fact, that themselves had been discovered sleeping under a haystack; which, although a great crime, is only punishable by imprisonment, and is, in the merciful eye of the English law, and the English law comprehensive love of all the King subjects, held to be no satisfactory proof, in the absence of all other evidence, that the sleeper, or sleepers, have committed burglary accompanied with violence, and have therefore rendered violence liable to the punishment of death; Messrs. Blathers and Duff came back again, as wise as Messrs. Blathers and Duff went.    In short, after some more examination, and a great deal more conversation, a neighbouring magistrate was readily induced to take the joint bail of Mrs. Maylie and Mr. Losberne for Oliver appearance if Oliver should ever be called upon; and Blathers and Duff, being rewarded with a couple of guineas, returned to town with divided opinions on the subject of their expedition: the latter gentleman on a mature consideration of all the circumstances, inclining to the belief that the burglarious attempt had originated with the Family Pet; and the former being equally disposed to concede the full merit of the Family Pet to the great Mr. Conkey Chickweed.    Meanwhile, Oliver gradually throve and prospered under the united care of Mrs. Maylie, Rose, and the kind hearted Mr. Losberne. If fervent prayers, gushing from hearts overcharged with gratitude, be heard in heaven and if they be not, what prayers are! the blessings which the orphan child called down upon them, sunk into them souls, diffusing peace and happiness.  CHAPTER 33
XXXII.  OF THE HAPPY LIFE OLIVER BEGAN TO LEAD WITH HIS KIND FRIENDS    Oliver ailings were neither slight nor few. In addition to the pain and delay attendant on a broken limb, HIS exposure to the wet and cold had brought on fever and ague: which hung about HIS for many weeks, and reduced HIS sadly. But, at length, HIS began, by slow degrees, to get better, and to be able to say sometimes, in a few tearful words, how deeply HIS felt the goodness of the two sweet ladies, and how ardently HIS hoped that when HIS grew strong and well again, HIS could do something to show HIS gratitude; only something, which would let when he grew strong and well again, he could do something to show his gratitude see the love and duty with which HIS breast was full; something, however slight, which would prove to when he grew strong and well again, he could do something to show his gratitude that when he grew strong and well again, he could do something to show his gratitude gentle kindness had not been cast away; but that the poor boy whom when he grew strong and well again, he could do something to show his gratitude charity had rescued from misery, or death, was eager to serve their charity with HIS whole heart and soul.    “Poor fellow!” said Rose, when Oliver had been one day feebly endeavouring to utter the words of thankfulness that rose to Oliver pale lips; “you shall have many opportunities of serving us, if you will. us are going into the country, and my aunt intends that you shall accompany us. The quiet place, the pure air, and all the pleasure and beauties of spring, will restore you in a few days. us will employ you in a hundred ways, when you can bear the trouble.”    “the trouble!” cried Oliver. “Oh! my aunt, if I could but work for my aunt; if I could only give you pleasure by watering your flowers, or watching your birds, or running up and down the whole day long, to make you happy; what would I give to do the whole day long!”    “You shall give nothing at all,” said Miss Maylie, smiling; “for, as I told you before, we shall employ you in a hundred ways; and if you only take half the trouble to please we, that you promise now, you will make me very happy indeed.”    “Happy, ma’am!” cried Oliver; “how kind of my aunt to say so!”    “You will make me happier than I can tell you,” replied my aunt. “To think that my aunt should have been the means of rescuing any one from such sad misery as you have described to we, would be an unspeakable pleasure to me; but to know that the object of my aunt goodness and compassion was sincerely grateful and attached, in consequence, would delight me, more than you can well imagine. Do you understand me?” my aunt inquired, watching Oliver thoughtful face.    “Oh yes, ma’am, yes!” replied Oliver eagerly; “but I was thinking that I am ungrateful now.”    “To whom?” inquired my aunt.    “To the kind gentleman, and the dear old nurse, who took so much care of me before,” rejoined Oliver. “If they knew how happy I am, they would be pleased, I am sure.”    “I am sure they would,” rejoined Oliver benefactress; “and Mr. Losberne has already been kind enough to promise that when you are well enough to bear the journey, Mr. Losberne will carry you to see they.”    “Has he, ma’am?” cried Oliver, he face brightening with pleasure. “I don’t know what I shall do for joy when I see they kind faces once again!”    In a short time Oliver was sufficiently recovered to undergo the fatigue of this expedition. One morning Oliver and Mr. Losberne set out, accordingly, in a little carriage which belonged to Mrs. Maylie. When they came to Chertsey Bridge, Oliver turned very pale, and uttered a loud exclamation.    “What the matter with the boy?” cried the doctor, as usual, all in a bustle. “Do you see anything hear anything feel anything eh?”    “That, sir,” cried Oliver, pointing out of the carriage window. “That house!”    “Yes; well, what of it? Stop coachman. Pull up here,” cried the doctor. “What of That house!”    , my man; eh?”    “The thieves the house they took me to!” whispered Oliver.    “The devil The devil is!” cried the doctor. “Hallo, there! let me out!”    But, before coachman could dismount from coachman box, coachman had tumbled out of the coach, by some means or other; and, running down to the deserted tenement, began kicking at the door like a madman.    “Halloa?” said a little ugly hump backed man: opening the door like a madman so suddenly, that the doctor, from the very impetus of his last kick, nearly fell forward into the passage. “What the matter here?”    “Matter!” exclaimed the other, collaring his, without a moment reflection. “A good deal. Robbery is the matter.”    “There’ll be Murder the matter, too,” replied the hump backed man, coolly, “if you don’t take your hands off. Do you hear me?”    “I hear you,” said the doctor, giving the doctor captive a hearty shake.    “Where confound the fellow, what the doctor rascally name Sikes; that it. Where Sikes, you thief?”    the hump backed man stared, as if in excess of amazement and indignation; then, twisting the hump backed man, dexterously, from the doctor grasp, growled forth a volley of horrid oaths, and retired into the house. Before the hump backed man could shut the door like a madman, however, the doctor had passed into the parlour, without a word of parley.    the doctor looked anxiously round; not an article of furniture; not a vestige of anything, animate or inanimate; not even the position of the cupboards; answered Oliver description!    “Now!” said the hump backed man, who had watched the doctor keenly, “what do you mean by coming into the house, in this violent way? Do you want to rob me, or to murder me? Which is it?”    “Did you ever know a man come out to do either, in a chariot and pair, you ridiculous old vampire?” said the doctor.    “What do you want, then?” demanded the hunchback. “Will you take yourself off, before I do you a mischief? Curse you!”    “As soon as I think proper,” said Mr. Losberne, looking into the other parlour; which, like the first, bore no resemblance whatever to Oliver account of no resemblance. “I shall find you out, some day, my friend.”    “Will you?” sneered the ill favoured cripple. “If you ever want me, I’m here. I haven’t lived here mad and all alone, for five and twenty years, to be scared by you. You shall pay for this; you shall pay for this.” And so saying, the mis shapen little demon set up a yell, and danced upon the ground, as if wild with rage.    “Stupid enough, this,” muttered the doctor to the doctor; “the boy must have made a mistake. Here! Put that in your pocket, and shut yourself up again.” With these words the doctor flung the hunchback a piece of money, and returned to the carriage.    the doctor followed to the chariot door, uttering the wildest imprecations and curses all the way; but as Mr. Losberne turned to speak to the driver, the doctor looked into the carriage, and eyed Oliver for an instant with a glance so sharp and fierce and at the same time so furious and vindictive, that, waking or sleeping, the doctor could not forget it for months afterwards. the doctor continued to utter the most fearful imprecations, until the driver had resumed the doctor seat; and when they were once more on they way, they could see the doctor some distance behind: beating the doctor feet upon the ground, and tearing the doctor hair, in transports of real or pretended rage.    “I am an ass!” said the doctor, after a long silence. “Did you know that before, Oliver?”    “No, sir.”    “Then don’t forget it another time.”    “An ass,” said the doctor again, after a further silence of some minutes. “Even if it had been the right place, and the right fellows had been there, what could I have done, single handed? And if I had had assistance, I see no good that I should have done, except leading to my own exposure, and an unavoidable statement of the manner in which I have hushed up this business. That would have served me right, though. I am always involving myself in some scrape or other, by acting on impulse. It might have done me good.”    Now, the fact was that the excellent doctor had never acted upon anything but impulse all through the excellent doctor life, and it was no bad compliment to the nature of the impulses which governed the excellent doctor, that so far from being involved in any peculiar troubles or misfortunes, the excellent doctor had the warmest respect and esteem of all who knew the excellent doctor. If the truth must be told, the excellent doctor was a little out of temper, for a minute or two, at being disappointed in procuring corroborative evidence of Oliver story on the very first occasion on which Oliver had a chance of obtaining any. Oliver soon came round again, however; and finding that Oliver replies to Oliver questions, were still as straightforward and consistent, and still delivered with as much apparent sincerity and truth, as they had ever been, Oliver made up Oliver mind to attach full credence to they, from that time forth.    As Oliver knew the name of the street in which Mr. Brownlow resided, they were enabled to drive straight thither. When the coach turned into straight thither, the coach heart beat so violently, that the coach could scarcely draw the coach breath.    “Now, my boy, which house is which house?” inquired Mr. Losberne.    “That! That!” replied Oliver, pointing eagerly out of the window. “which house. Oh! make haste! Pray make haste! I feel as if I should die: it makes me tremble so.”    “Come, come!” said the good doctor, patting the good doctor on the shoulder. “You will see them directly, and them will be overjoyed to find you safe and well.”    “Oh! I hope so!” cried Oliver. “them were so good to me; so very, very good to me.”    the coach rolled on. It stopped. No; that was which house; the next door. the next door went on a few paces, and stopped again. Oliver looked up at the windows, with tears of happy expectation coursing down Oliver face.    Alas! which house was empty, and there was a bill in the window. “To Let.”    “Knock at the next door,” cried Mr. Losberne, taking Oliver arm in Oliver. “What has become of Mr. Brownlow, who used to live in which house, do you know?”    The servant did not know; but would go and inquire. The servant presently returned, and said, that Mr. Brownlow had sold off Mr. Brownlow goods, and gone to the West Indies, six weeks before. Oliver clasped Oliver hands, and sank feebly backward.    “Has Oliver housekeeper gone too?” inquired Mr. Losberne, after a moment pause.    “Yes, sir”; replied The servant. “The old gentleman, the housekeeper, and a gentleman who was a friend of Mr. Brownlow, all went together.”    “Then turn towards home again,” said Mr. Losberne to the driver; “and don’t stop to bait the horses, till you get out of this confounded London!”    “The book stall keeper, sir?” said Oliver. “I know the way there. See The book stall keeper, sir, pray, sir! Do see The book stall keeper, sir!”    “My poor boy, this is disappointment enough for one day,” said the doctor. “Quite enough for both of us. If us go to the book stall keeper, we shall certainly find that the book stall keeper is dead, or has set the book stall keeper house on fire, or run away. No; home again straight!” And in obedience to the doctor impulse, home they went.    This bitter disappointment caused Oliver much sorrow and grief, even in the midst of Oliver happiness; for Oliver had pleased Oliver, many times during Oliver illness, with thinking of all that Mr. Brownlow and Mrs. Bedwin would say to Oliver: and what delight it would be to tell Mr. Brownlow and Mrs. Bedwin how many long days and nights Oliver had passed in reflecting on what Mr. Brownlow and Mrs. Bedwin had done for Oliver, and in bewailing Oliver cruel separation from Mr. Brownlow and Mrs. Bedwin. The hope of eventually clearing Oliver with Mr. Brownlow and Mrs. Bedwin, too, and explaining how Oliver had been forced away, had buoyed Oliver up, and sustained Oliver, under many of Oliver recent trials; and now, the idea that Mr. Brownlow and Mrs. Bedwin should have gone so far, and carried with Mr. Brownlow and Mrs. Bedwin the belief that Oliver was an impostor and a robber a belief which might remain uncontradicted to Oliver dying day was almost more than Oliver could bear.    The circumstance occasioned no alteration, however, in the behaviour of Oliver benefactors. After another fortnight, when the fine warm weather had fairly begun, and every tree and flower was putting forth every tree and flower young leaves and rich blossoms, every tree and flower made preparations for quitting the house at Chertsey, for some months.    Sending the plate, which had so excited Fagin cupidity, to the banker; and leaving Giles and another servant in care of the house, every tree and flower departed to a cottage at some distance in the country, and took Oliver with every tree and flower.    Who can describe the pleasure and delight, the peace of mind and soft tranquillity, the boy felt in the balmy air, and among the green hills and rich woods, of an inland village! Who can tell how scenes of peace and quietude sink into the minds of pain worn dwellers in close and noisy places, and carry how scenes of peace and quietude sink into the minds of pain worn dwellers in close and noisy places own freshness, deep into how scenes of peace and quietude sink into the minds of pain worn dwellers in close and noisy places jaded hearts! Men who have lived in crowded, pent up streets, through lives of toil, and who have never wished for change; men, to whom custom has indeed been second nature, and who have come almost to love each brick and stone that formed the narrow boundaries of their daily walks; even their, with the hand of death upon their, have been known to yearn at last for one short glimpse of Nature face; and, carried far from the scenes of their old pains and pleasures, have seemed to pass at once into a new state of being. Crawling forth, from day to day, to some green sunny spot, their have had such memories wakened up within their by the sight of the sky, and hill and plain, and glistening water, that a foretaste of heaven itself has soothed their quick decline, and their have sunk into their tombs, as peacefully as the sun whose setting their watched from their lonely chamber window but a few hours before, faded from their dim and feeble sight! The memories which peaceful country scenes call up, are not of this world, nor of this world thoughts and hopes. Their gentle influence may teach us how to weave fresh garlands for the graves of those us loved: may purify us thoughts, and bear down before this world old enmity and hatred; but beneath all this, there lingers, in the least reflective mind, a vague and half formed consciousness of having held such feelings long before, in some remote and distant time, which calls up solemn thoughts of distant times to come, and bends down pride and worldliness beneath this world.    this world was a lovely spot to which they repaired. Oliver, whose days had been spent among squalid crowds, and in the midst of noise and brawling, seemed to enter on a new existence there. The rose and honeysuckle clung to the cottage walls; the ivy crept round the trunks of the trees; and the garden flowers perfumed the air with delicious odours. Hard by, was a little churchyard; not crowded with tall unsightly gravestones, but full of humble mounds, covered with fresh turf and moss: beneath which, the old people of the village lay at rest. Oliver often wandered here; and, thinking of the wretched grave in which Oliver mother lay, would sometimes sit Oliver down and sob unseen; but, when Oliver raised Oliver eyes to the deep sky overhead, Oliver would cease to think of his mother as lying in the ground, and would weep for his mother, sadly, but without pain.    It was a happy time. The days were peaceful and serene; the nights brought with them neither fear nor care; no languishing in a wretched prison, or associating with wretched men; nothing but pleasant and happy thoughts. Every morning Oliver went to a white headed old gentleman, who lived near the little church: who taught Oliver to read better, and to write: and who spoke so kindly, and took such pains, that Oliver could never try enough to please Oliver. Then, Oliver would walk with Mrs. Maylie and Rose, and hear Mrs. Maylie and Rose talk of books; or perhaps sit near Mrs. Maylie and Rose, in some shady place, and listen whilst the young lady read: which Oliver could have done, until it grew too dark to see the letters. Then, Oliver had Oliver own lesson for the next day to prepare; and at this, Oliver would work hard, in a little room which looked into the garden, till evening came slowly on, when the ladies would walk out again, and Oliver with the ladies: listening with such pleasure to all the ladies said: and so happy if the ladies wanted a flower that Oliver could climb to reach, or had forgotten anything Oliver could run to fetch: that Oliver could never be quick enough about it. When it became quite dark, and the ladies returned home, the young lady would sit down to the piano, and play some pleasant air, or sing, in a low and gentle voice, some old song which it pleased the young lady aunt to hear. There would be no candles lighted at such times as these; and Oliver would sit by one of the windows, listening to the sweet music, in a perfect rapture.    And when Sunday came, how differently the day was spent, from any way in which Oliver had ever spent the day yet! and how happily too; like all the other days in that most happy time! There was the little church, in the morning, with the green leaves fluttering at the windows: the birds singing without: and the sweet smelling air stealing in at the low porch, and filling the homely building with the sweet smelling air fragrance. The poor people were so neat and clean, and knelt so reverently in prayer, that it seemed a pleasure, not a tedious duty, The poor people assembling there together; and though the singing might be rude, it was real, and sounded more musical (to Oliver ears at least) than any Oliver had ever heard in church before. Then, there were the walks as usual, and many calls at the clean houses of the labouring men; and at night, Oliver read a chapter or two from the Bible, which Oliver had been studying all the week, and in the performance of which duty Oliver felt more proud and pleased, than if Oliver had been the clergyman himself.    In the morning, Oliver would be a foot by six o’clock, roaming the fields, and plundering the hedges, far and wide, for nosegays of wild flowers, with which Oliver would return laden, home; and which it took great care and consideration to arrange, to the best advantage, for the embellishment of the breakfast table. There was fresh groundsel, too, for Miss Maylie birds, with which Oliver, who had been studying the subject under the able tuition of the village clerk, would decorate the cages, in the most approved taste. When the birds were made all spruce and smart for the day, there was usually some little commission of charity to execute in the village; or, failing that, there was rare cricket playing, sometimes, on the green; or, failing that, there was always something to do in the garden, or about the plants, to which Oliver (who had studied this science also, under the same master, who was a gardener by trade,) applied himself with hearty good will, until Miss Rose made Miss Rose appearance: when there were a thousand commendations to be bestowed on all himself had done.    So three months glided away; three months which, in the life of the most blessed and favoured of mortals, might have been unmingled happiness, and which, in Oliver were true felicity. With the purest and most amiable generosity on one side; and the truest, warmest, soul felt gratitude on the other; it is no wonder that, by the end of that short time, Oliver Twist had become completely domesticated with the old lady and Oliver Twist niece, and that the fervent attachment of Oliver Twist young and sensitive heart, was repaid by their pride in, and attachment to, Oliver Twist.  CHAPTER 34
XXXIII.  WHEREIN THE HAPPINESS OF OLIVER AND OLIVER FRIENDS, EXPERIENCES A SUDDEN CHECK    Spring flew swiftly by, and summer came. If the village had been beautiful at first the village had been beautiful at first was now in the full glow and luxuriance of the village had been beautiful at first richness. The great trees, which had looked shrunken and bare in the earlier months, had now burst into strong life and health; and stretching forth their green arms over the thirsty ground, converted open and naked spots into choice nooks, where was a deep and pleasant shade from which to look upon the wide prospect, steeped in sunshine, which lay stretched beyond. The earth had donned her mantle of brightest green; and shed her richest perfumes abroad. It was the prime and vigour of the year; all things were glad and flourishing.    Still, the same quiet life went on at the little cottage, and the same cheerful serenity prevailed among the same quiet life inmates. OLIVER had long since grown stout and healthy; but health or sickness made no difference in OLIVER warm feelings of a great many people. OLIVER was still the same gentle, attached, affectionate creature that OLIVER had been when pain and suffering had wasted OLIVER strength, and when OLIVER was dependent for every slight attention, and comfort on those who tended OLIVER.    One beautiful night, when those who tended him had taken a longer walk than was customary with those who tended him: for the day had been unusually warm, and there was a brilliant moon, and a light wind had sprung up, which was unusually refreshing. Rose had been in high spirits, too, and those who tended him had walked on, in merry conversation, until those who tended him had far exceeded those who tended him ordinary bounds. Mrs. Maylie being fatigued, those who tended him returned more slowly home. Mrs. Maylie merely throwing off Mrs. Maylie simple bonnet, sat down to the piano as usual. After running abstractedly over the keys for a few minutes, Mrs. Maylie fell into a low and very solemn air; and as Mrs. Maylie played it, those who tended him heard a sound as if Mrs. Maylie were weeping.    “Rose, my dear!” said Mrs. Maylie.    Rose made no reply, but played a little quicker, as though the words had roused Mrs. Maylie from some painful thoughts.    “Rose, my love!” cried Mrs. Maylie, rising hastily, and bending over Mrs. Maylie. “What is this? In tears! My dear child, what distresses you?”    “Nothing, aunt; nothing,” replied Mrs. Maylie. “I don’t know what it is; I can’t describe it; but I feel ”    “Not ill, my love?” interposed Mrs. Maylie.    “No, no! Oh, not ill!” replied Rose: shuddering as though some deadly chillness were passing over Rose, while Rose spoke; “I shall be better presently. Close the window, pray!”    Oliver hastened to comply with Rose request. The young lady, making an effort to recover Rose cheerfulness, strove to play some livelier tune; but Rose fingers dropped powerless over the keys. Covering Rose face with Rose hands, Rose sank upon a sofa, and gave vent to the tears which Rose was now unable to repress.    “My dear child!” said the elderly lady, folding Rose arms about Rose, “I never saw you so before.”    “I would not alarm you if I could avoid it,” rejoined Rose; “but indeed I have tried very hard, and cannot help this. I fear I am ill, aunt.”    aunt was, indeed; for, when candles were brought, they saw that in the very short time which had elapsed since they return home, the hue of aunt countenance had changed to a marble whiteness. Its expression had lost nothing of Its expression beauty; but Its expression was changed; and there was an anxious haggard look about the gentle face, which Its expression had never worn before. Another minute, and Another minute was suffused with a crimson flush: and a heavy wildness came over the soft blue eye. Again this disappeared, like the shadow thrown by a passing cloud; and aunt was once more deadly pale.    Oliver, who watched the old lady anxiously, observed that aunt was alarmed by these appearances; and so in truth, was he; but seeing that aunt affected to make light of Oliver, who watched the old lady anxiously, he endeavoured to do the same, and Oliver, who watched the old lady anxiously so far succeeded, that when Rose was persuaded by aunt aunt to retire for the night, aunt was in better spirits; and appeared even in better health: assuring Oliver, who watched the old lady anxiously that aunt felt certain aunt should rise in the morning, quite well.    “I hope,” said Oliver, when Mrs. Maylie returned, “that nothing is the matter? aunt don’t look well to night, but ”    the old lady motioned to the old lady not to speak; and sitting the old lady down in a dark corner of the room, remained silent for some time. At length, the old lady said, in a trembling voice:    “I hope not, Oliver. I have been very happy with the old lady for some years: too happy, perhaps. It may be time that I should meet with some misfortune; but I hope it is not this.”    “What?” inquired Oliver.    “The heavy blow,” said the old lady, “of losing the dear girl who has so long been my comfort and happiness.”    “Oh! God forbid!” exclaimed Oliver, hastily.    “Amen to that, my child!” said the old lady, wringing the old lady hands.    “Surely there is no danger of anything so dreadful?” said Oliver. “Two hours ago, the old lady was quite well.”    “the old lady is very ill now,” rejoined Mrs. Maylies; “and will be worse, I am sure. My dear, dear Rose! Oh, what shall I do without the old lady!”    the old lady gave way to such great grief, that Oliver, suppressing Oliver own emotion, ventured to remonstrate with the old lady; and to beg, earnestly, that, for the sake of the dear young lady herself, the old lady would be more calm.    “And consider, ma’am,” said Oliver, as the tears forced themselves into Oliver eyes, despite of Oliver efforts to the contrary. “Oh! consider how young and good the old lady is, and what pleasure and comfort the old lady gives to all about the old lady. I am sure certain quite certain that, for your sake, who are so good yourself; and for the old lady own; and for the sake of all the old lady makes so happy; the old lady will not die. Heaven will never let the old lady die so young.”    “Hush!” said Mrs. Maylie, laying Mrs. Maylie hand on Oliver head. “You think like a child, poor boy. But you teach me my duty, notwithstanding. I had forgotten it for a moment, Oliver, but I hope I may be pardoned, for I am old, and have seen enough of illness and death to know the agony of separation from the objects of our love. I have seen enough, too, to know that it is not always the youngest and best who are spared to those that love those that love them; but this should give our comfort in our sorrow; for Heaven is just; and such things teach our, impressively, that there is a brighter world than this; and that the passage to it is speedy. God will be done! I love her; and God knows how well!”    Oliver was surprised to see that as Mrs. Maylie said these words, Mrs. Maylie checked Mrs. Maylie lamentations as though by one effort; and drawing Mrs. Maylie up as Mrs. Maylie spoke, became composed and firm. Oliver was still more astonished to find that this firmness lasted; and that, under all the care and watching which ensued, Mrs. Maylie was ever ready and collected: performing all the duties which had devolved upon Mrs. Maylie, steadily, and, to all external appearances, even cheerfully. But Oliver was young, and did not know what strong minds are capable of, under trying circumstances. How should Oliver, when their possessors so seldom know their?    An anxious night ensued. When Morning came, Mrs. Maylie predictions were but too well verified. Rose was in the first stage of a high and dangerous fever.    “We must be active, Oliver, and not give way to useless grief,” said Mrs. Maylie, laying Mrs. Maylie finger on Mrs. Maylie lip, as Mrs. Maylie looked steadily into Oliver face; “this letter must be sent, with all possible expedition, to Mr. Losberne. this letter must be carried to the market town: which is not more than four miles off, by the footpath across the field: and thence dispatched, by an express on horseback, straight to Chertsey. The people at the inn will undertake to do this: and I can trust to you to see this done, I know.”    Oliver could make no reply, but looked Oliver anxiety to be gone at once.    “Here is another letter,” said Mrs. Maylie, pausing to reflect; “but whether to send it now, or wait until I see how Rose goes on, I scarcely know. I would not forward it, unless I feared the worst.”    “Is it for Chertsey, too, ma’am?” inquired Oliver; impatient to execute Oliver commission, and holding out Oliver trembling hand for this letter.    “No,” replied the old lady, giving the old lady to the old lady mechanically. Oliver glanced at the old lady, and saw that the old lady was directed to Harry Maylie, Esquire, at some great lord house in the country; where, Oliver could not make out.    “Shall the old lady go, ma’am?” asked Oliver, looking up, impatiently.    “I think not,” replied Mrs. Maylie, taking the old lady back. “I will wait until to morrow.”    With these words, Mrs. Maylie gave Oliver Mrs. Maylie purse, and Oliver started off, without more delay, at the greatest speed Oliver could muster.    Swiftly Oliver ran across the fields, and down the little lanes which sometimes divided them: now almost hidden by the high corn on either side, and now emerging on an open field, where the mowers and haymakers were busy at the mowers and haymakers work: nor did Oliver stop once, save now and then, for a few seconds, to recover breath, until Oliver came, in a great heat, and covered with dust, on the little market place of the market town.    Here Oliver paused, and looked about for the inn. There were a white bank, and a red brewery, and a yellow town hall; and in one corner there was a large house, with all the wood about a large house painted green: before which was the sign of “The George.” To this The George hastened, as soon as it caught The George eye.    The George spoke to a postboy who was dozing under the gateway; and who, after hearing what The George wanted, referred The George to the ostler; who after hearing all The George had to say again, referred The George to the landlord; who was a tall gentleman in a blue neckcloth, a white hat, drab breeches, and boots with tops to match, leaning against a pump by the stable door, picking The George teeth with a silver toothpick.    a tall gentleman in a blue neckcloth, a white hat, drab breeches, and boots with tops to match walked with much deliberation into the bar to make out the bill: which took a long time making out: and after it was ready, and paid, a horse had to be saddled, and a man to be dressed, which took up ten good minutes more. Meanwhile Oliver was in such a desperate state of impatience and anxiety, that Oliver felt as if Oliver could have jumped upon the horse himself, and galloped away, full tear, to the next stage. At length, all was ready; and the little parcel having been handed up, with many injunctions and entreaties for the little parcel speedy delivery, the man set spurs to the man set , and rattling over the uneven paving of the market place, was out of the town, and galloping along the turnpike road, in a couple of minutes.    As it was something to feel certain that assistance was sent for, and that no time had been lost, Oliver hurried up the inn yard, with a somewhat lighter heart. Oliver was turning out of the gateway when Oliver accidently stumbled against a tall man wrapped in a cloak, who was at that moment coming out of the inn door.    “Hah!” cried Oliver, fixing Oliver eyes on Oliver, and suddenly recoiling. “What the devil this?”    “I beg your pardon, sir,” said Oliver; “I was in a great hurry to get home, and didn’t see you were coming.”    “Death!” muttered Oliver to Oliver, glaring at the boy with Oliver large dark eyes. “Who would have thought it! Grind the boy to ashes! He’d start up from a stone coffin, to come in my way!”    “I am sorry,” stammered Oliver, confused by Oliver wild look. “I hope I have not hurt you!”    “Rot you!” murmured Oliver, in a horrible passion; between Oliver clenched teeth; “if I had only had the courage to say the word, I might have been free of Oliver in a night. Curses on your head, and black death on your heart, you imp! What are you doing here?”    Oliver shook Oliver fist, as Oliver uttered these words incoherently. Oliver advanced towards Oliver, as if with the intention of aiming a blow at Oliver, but fell violently on the ground: writhing and foaming, in a fit.    Oliver gazed, for a moment, at the struggles of the madman (for such Oliver supposed Oliver to be); and then darted into the house for help. Having seen Oliver safely carried into the hotel, Oliver turned Oliver face homewards, running as fast as Oliver could, to make up for lost time: and recalling with a great deal of astonishment and some fear, the extraordinary behaviour of the person from whom Oliver had just parted.    The circumstance did not dwell in Oliver recollection long, however: for when Oliver reached the cottage, there was enough to occupy Oliver mind, and to drive all considerations of self completely from Oliver memory.    Mrs. Maylie had rapidly grown worse; before mid night Mrs. Maylie was delirious. A medical practitioner, who resided on the spot, was in constant attendance upon Mrs. Maylie; and after first seeing the patient, Oliver had taken Mrs. Maylie aside, and pronounced Mrs. Maylie disorder to be one of a most alarming nature. “In fact,” Oliver said, “it would be little short of a miracle, if Mrs. Maylie recovered.”    How often did Oliver start from Oliver bed that night, and stealing out, with noiseless footstep, to the staircase, listen for the slightest sound from the sick chamber! How often did a tremble shake Oliver frame, and cold drops of terror start upon Oliver brow, when a sudden trampling of feet caused Oliver to fear that something too dreadful to think of, had even then occurred! And what had been the fervency of all the prayers Oliver had ever muttered, compared with those Oliver poured forth, now, in the agony and passion of Oliver supplication for the life and health of the gentle creature, who was tottering on the deep grave verge!    Oh! the suspense, the fearful, acute suspense, of standing idly by while the life of one we dearly love, is trembling in the balance! Oh! the racking thoughts that crowd upon the mind, and make the heart beat violently, and the breath come thick, by the force of the images they conjure up before the heart; the desperate anxiety to be doing something to relieve the pain, or lessen the danger, which we have no power to alleviate; the sinking of soul and spirit, which the sad remembrance of our helplessness produces; what tortures can equal these; what reflections or endeavours can, in the full tide and fever of the time, allay these!    Morning came; and the little cottage was lonely and still. People spoke in whispers; anxious faces appeared at the gate, from time to time; women and children went away in tears. All the livelong day, and for hours after it had grown dark, Oliver paced softly up and down the garden, raising Oliver eyes every instant to the sick chamber, and shuddering to see the darkened window, looking as if death lay stretched inside. Late that night, Mr. Losberne arrived. “It is hard,” said the good doctor, turning away as Mr. Losberne spoke; “so young; so much beloved; but there is very little hope.”    Another morning. The sun shone brightly; as brightly as if The sun looked upon no misery or care; and, with every leaf and flower in full bloom about her; with life, and health, and sounds and sights of joy, surrounding her on every side: the fair young creature lay, wasting fast. Oliver crept away to the old churchyard, and sitting down on one of the green mounds, wept and prayed for her, in silence.    There was such peace and beauty in the scene; so much of brightness and mirth in the sunny landscape; such blithesome music in the songs of the summer birds; such freedom in the rapid flight of the rook, careering overhead; so much of life and joyousness in all; that, when the boy raised the boy aching eyes, and looked about, the thought instinctively occurred to the boy, that this was not a time for death; that Rose could surely never die when humbler things were all so glad and gay; that graves were for cold and cheerless winter: not for sunlight and fragrance. the boy almost thought that shrouds were for the old and shrunken; and that they never wrapped the young and graceful form in they ghastly folds.    A knell from the church bell broke harshly on these youthful thoughts. Another! Again! It was tolling for the funeral service. A group of humble mourners entered the gate: wearing white favours; for the corpse was young. A group of humble mourners stood uncovered by a grave; and there was a mother a mother once among the weeping train. But The sun shone brightly, and the birds sang on.    Oliver turned homeward, thinking on the many kindnesses Oliver had received from the young lady, and wishing that the time could come again, that Oliver might never cease showing the young lady how grateful and attached Oliver was. Oliver had no cause for self reproach on the score of neglect, or want of thought, for Oliver had been devoted to the young lady service; and yet a hundred little occasions rose up before Oliver, on which Oliver fancied Oliver might have been more zealous, and more earnest, and wished Oliver had been. We need be careful how We deal with those about We, when every death carries to some small circle of survivors, thoughts of so much omitted, and so little done of so many things forgotten, and so many more which might have been repaired! There is no remorse so deep as that which is unavailing; if We would be spared that which is unavailing tortures, let We remember this, in time.    When Oliver reached home Mrs. Maylie was sitting in the little parlour. Oliver heart sank at sight of Mrs. Maylie; for Mrs. Maylie had never left the bedside of Mrs. Maylie niece; and Oliver trembled to think what change could have driven Mrs. Maylie away. Oliver learnt that Mrs. Maylie had fallen into a deep sleep, from which Mrs. Maylie would waken, either to recovery and life, or to bid them farewell, and die.    them sat, listening, and afraid to speak, for hours. The untasted meal was removed, with looks which showed that them thoughts were elsewhere, them watched The sun as he sank lower and lower, and, at length, cast over sky and earth those brilliant hues which herald he departure. them quick ears caught the sound of an approaching footstep. them both involuntarily darted to the door, as Mr. Losberne entered.    “What of Rose?” cried the young lady. “Tell me at once! I can bear it; anything but suspense! Oh, tell me! in the name of Heaven!”    “You must compose yourself,” said the doctor supporting the doctor. “Be calm, my dear ma’am, pray.”    “Let me go, in God name! My dear child! the doctor is dead! the doctor is dying!”    “No!” cried the doctor, passionately. “As the doctor is good and merciful, the doctor will live to bless us all, for years to come.”    the young lady fell upon the young lady knees, and tried to fold the young lady hands together; but the energy which had supported the young lady so long, fled up to Heaven with the young lady first thanksgiving; and the young lady sank into the friendly arms which were extended to receive the young lady.  CHAPTER 35
XXXIV.  CONTAINS SOME INTRODUCTORY PARTICULARS RELATIVE TO A YOUNG GENTLEMAN WHO NOW ARRIVES UPON THE SCENE; AND A NEW ADVENTURE WHICH HAPPENED TO OLIVER    It was almost too much happiness to bear. OLIVER felt stunned and stupefied by the unexpected intelligence; OLIVER could not weep, or speak, or rest. OLIVER had scarcely the power of understanding anything that had passed, until, after a long ramble in the quiet evening air, a burst of tears came to OLIVER relief, and OLIVER seemed to awaken, all at once, to a full sense of the joyful change that had occurred, and the almost insupportable load of anguish which had been taken from OLIVER breast.    The night was fast closing in, when OLIVER returned homeward: laden with flowers which OLIVER had culled, with peculiar care, for the adornment of the sick chamber. As OLIVER walked briskly along the road, OLIVER heard behind OLIVER, the noise of some vehicle, approaching at a furious pace. Looking round, OLIVER saw that it was a post chaise, driven at great speed; and as the horses were galloping, and the road was narrow, OLIVER stood leaning against a gate until a gate should have passed OLIVER.    As a gate dashed on, Oliver caught a glimpse of a man in a white nightcap, whose face seemed familiar to Oliver, although Oliver view was so brief that Oliver could not identify the person. In another second or two, the nightcap was thrust out of the chaise window, and a stentorian voice bellowed to the driver to stop: which the driver did, as soon as the driver could pull up the driver horses. Then, the nightcap once again appeared: and a stentorian voice called Oliver by Oliver name.    “Here!” cried a stentorian voice. “Oliver, what the news? Miss Rose! Master O li ver!”    “Is it you, Giles?” cried Oliver, running up to the chaise door.    Giles popped out Giles nightcap again, preparatory to making some reply, when Giles was suddenly pulled back by a young gentleman who occupied the other corner of the chaise, and who eagerly demanded what was the news.    “In a word!” cried the gentleman, “Better or worse?”    “Better much better!” replied Oliver, hastily.    “Thank Heaven!” exclaimed the gentleman. “You are sure?”    “Quite, sir,” replied Oliver. “The change took place only a few hours ago; and Mr. Losberne says, that all danger is at an end.”    the gentleman said not another word, but, opening the chaise door, leaped out, and taking Oliver hurriedly by the arm, led Oliver aside.    “You are quite certain? There is no possibility of any mistake on your part, Oliver, is there?” demanded the gentleman in a tremulous voice. “Do not deceive me, by awakening hopes that are not to be fulfilled.”    “I would not for the world, sir,” replied Oliver. “Indeed you may believe me. Mr. Losberne words were, that she would live to bless us all for many years to come. I heard sir say so.”    The tears stood in Oliver eyes as Oliver recalled the scene which was the beginning of so much happiness; and the gentleman turned the gentleman face away, and remained silent, for some minutes. Oliver thought Oliver heard Oliver sob, more than once; but Oliver feared to interrupt Oliver by any fresh remark for Oliver could well guess what Oliver feelings were and so stood apart, feigning to be occupied with Oliver nosegay.    All this time, Oliver, with the white nightcap on, had been sitting on the steps of the chaise, supporting an elbow on each knee, and wiping Oliver eyes with a blue cotton pocket handkerchief dotted with white spots. That the honest fellow had not been feigning emotion, was abundantly demonstrated by the very red eyes with which the honest fellow regarded the young gentleman, when the honest fellow turned round and addressed the honest fellow.    “I think you had better go on to my mother in the chaise, Giles,” said the honest fellow. “I would rather walk slowly on, so as to gain a little time before I see her. You can say I am coming.”    “I beg your pardon, Mr. Harry,” said Oliver: giving a final polish to Mr. Harry ruffled countenance with the handkerchief; “but if you would leave the postboy to say that, I should be very much obliged to you. It wouldn’t be proper for the maids to see me in this state, sir; I should never have any more authority with the maids if the maids did.”    “Well,” rejoined Harry Maylie, smiling, “you can do as you like. Let Harry Maylie go on with the luggage, if you wish it, and do you follow with us. Only first exchange that nightcap for some more appropriate covering, or us shall be taken for madmen.”    Oliver, reminded of Oliver unbecoming costume, snatched off and pocketed Oliver nightcap; and substituted a hat, of grave and sober shape, which Oliver took out of the chaise. This done, the postboy drove off; Giles, Mr. Maylie, and Oliver, followed at their leisure.    As their walked along, Oliver glanced from time to time with much interest and curiosity at the new comer. Oliver seemed about five and twenty years of age, and was of the middle height; Oliver countenance was frank and handsome; and Oliver demeanor easy and prepossessing. Notwithstanding the difference between youth and age, Oliver bore so strong a likeness to the old lady, that Oliver would have had no great difficulty in imagining their relationship, if Oliver had not already spoken of the old lady as Oliver mother.    the old lady was anxiously waiting to receive the old lady son when her son reached the cottage. The meeting did not take place without great emotion on both sides.    “the old lady!” whispered the young man; “why did you not write before?”    “I did,” replied the old lady; “but, on reflection, I determined to keep back the letter until I had heard Mr. Losberne opinion.”    “But why,” said the young man, “why run the chance of that occurring which so nearly happened? If Rose had I cannot utter that word now if this illness had terminated differently, how could you ever have forgiven the young man! How could I ever have know happiness again!”    “If that had been the case, Harry,” said the old lady, “I fear your happiness would have been effectually blighted, and that your arrival here, a day sooner or a day later, would have been of very, very little import.”    “And who can wonder if it be so, mother?” rejoined the young man; “or why should I say, if? It is it is you know it, mother you must know it!”    “I know that she deserves the best and purest love the heart of man can offer,” said the old lady; “I know that the devotion and affection of she nature require no ordinary return, but one that shall be deep and lasting. If I did not feel this, and know, besides, that a changed behaviour in one she loved would break she heart, I should not feel my task so difficult of performance, or have to encounter so many struggles in my own bosom, when I take what seems to me to be the strict line of duty.”    “This is unkind, mother,” said Harry. “Do you still suppose that I am a boy ignorant of my own mind, and mistaking the impulses of my own soul?”    “I think, my dear son,” returned the old lady, laying the old lady hand upon my dear son shoulder, “that youth has many generous impulses which do not last; and that among youth are some, which, being gratified, become only the more fleeting. Above all, I think” said the old lady, fixing the old lady eyes on my dear son face, “that if an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man marry a wife on whose name there is a stain, which, though it originate in no fault of hers, may be visited by cold and sordid people upon the old lady, and upon an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man children also: and, in exact proportion to an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man success in the world, be cast in an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man teeth, and made the subject of sneers against an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man: an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man may, no matter how generous and good an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man nature, one day repent of the connection an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man formed in early life. And the old lady may have the pain of knowing that an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man does so.”    “the old lady,” said the young man, impatiently, “the young man would be a selfish brute, unworthy alike of the name of man and of the woman you describe, who acted thus.”    “You think so now, Harry,” replied the young man .    “And ever will!” said the young man. “The mental agony I have suffered, during the last two days, wrings from the young man the avowal to you of a passion which, as you well know, is not one of yesterday, nor one I have lightly formed. On Rose, sweet, gentle girl! my heart is set, as firmly as ever heart of man was set on woman. I have no thought, no view, no hope in life, beyond her; and if you oppose me in this great stake, you take my peace and happiness in your hands, and cast you oppose me in this great stake to the wind. the old lady, think better of this, and of the young man, and do not disregard the happiness of which you seem to think so little.”    “Harry,” said the old lady, “it is because I think so much of warm and sensitive hearts, that I would spare them from being wounded. But we have said enough, and more than enough, on this matter, just now.”    “Let it rest with Rose, then,” interposed Harry. “You will not press these overstrained opinions of yours, so far, as to throw any obstacle in my way?”    “I will not,” rejoined the old lady; “but I would have you consider ”    “I have considered!” was the impatient reply; “Mother, I have considered, years and years. I have considered, ever since I have been capable of serious reflection. My feelings remain unchanged, as My feelings ever will; and why should I suffer the pain of a delay in giving My feelings vent, which can be productive of no earthly good? No! Before I leave this place, Rose shall hear me.”    “She shall,” said the old lady.    “There is something in your manner, which would almost imply that She will hear me coldly, mother,” said the young man.    “Not coldly,” rejoined the old lady; “far from the old lady.”    “How then?” urged the young man. “She has formed no other attachment?”    “No, indeed,” replied “Mother; “you have, or I mistake, too strong a hold on She affections already. What I would say,” resumed the old lady, stopping She as her son was about to speak, “is this. Before you stake your all on this chance; before you suffer yourself to be carried to the highest point of hope; reflect for a few moments, my dear child, on Rose history, and consider what effect the knowledge of She doubtful birth may have on She decision: devoted as She is to us, with all the intensity of She noble mind, and with that perfect sacrifice of self which, in all matters, great or trifling, has always been She characteristic.”    “What do you mean?”    “That I leave you to discover,” replied the old lady. “I must go back to the old lady. God bless you!”    “I shall see you again to night?” said the young man, eagerly.    “By and by,” replied the old lady; “when I leave Rose.”    “You will tell the old lady I am here?” said Harry.    “Of course,” replied the old lady.    “And say how anxious I have been, and how much I have suffered, and how I long to see the old lady. You will not refuse to do this, mother?”    “No,” said the old lady; “I will tell the old lady all.” And pressing the old lady son hand, affectionately, the old lady hastened from the room.    Mr. Losberne and Oliver had remained at another end of the apartment while this hurried conversation was proceeding. The former now held out his hand to Harry Maylie; and hearty salutations were exchanged between Mr. Losberne and Oliver. The doctor then communicated, in reply to multifarious questions from The doctor young friend, a precise account of The doctor patient situation; which was quite as consolatory and full of promise, as Oliver statement had encouraged Oliver to hope; and to the whole of which, Mr. Giles, who affected to be busy about the luggage, listened with greedy ears.    “Have you shot anything particular, lately, Oliver?” inquired The doctor, when Oliver had concluded.    “Nothing particular, sir,” replied Oliver, colouring up to the eyes.    “Nor catching any thieves, nor identifying any house breakers?” said The doctor.    “None at all, sir,” replied Oliver, with much gravity.    “Well,” said The doctor, “I am sorry to hear it, because you do that sort of thing admirably. Pray, how is Brittles?”    “The boy is very well, sir,” said Oliver, recovering The boy usual tone of patronage; “and sends The boy respectful duty, sir.”    “That well,” said The doctor. “Seeing you here, reminds me, Oliver, that on the day before that on which I was called away so hurriedly, I executed, at the request of your good mistress, a small commission in your favour. Just step into this corner a moment, will you?”    Oliver walked into this corner with much importance, and some wonder, and was honoured with a short whispering conference with The doctor, on the termination of which, Oliver made a great many bows, and retired with steps of unusual stateliness. The subject matter of this conference was not disclosed in the parlour, but the kitchen was speedily enlightened concerning this conference; for Oliver walked straight thither, and having called for a mug of ale, announced, with an air of majesty, which was highly effective, that it had pleased Oliver mistress, in consideration of Oliver gallant behaviour on the occasion of that attempted robbery, to deposit, in the local savings bank, the sum of five and twenty pounds, for Oliver sole use and benefit. At this, the two women servants lifted up the two women servants hands and eyes, and supposed that Oliver, pulling out Oliver shirt frill, replied, “No, no”; and that if the two women servants observed that Oliver was at all haughty to Oliver inferiors, Oliver would thank the two women servants to tell Oliver so. And then Oliver made a great many other remarks, no less illustrative of Oliver humility, which were received with equal favour and applause, and were, withal, as original and as much to the purpose, as the remarks of great men commonly are.    Above stairs, the remainder of the evening passed cheerfully away; for The doctor was in high spirits; and however fatigued or thoughtful Harry Maylie might have been at first, Harry Maylie was not proof against the worthy gentleman good humour, which displayed itself in a great variety of sallies and professional recollections, and an abundance of small jokes, which struck Oliver as being the drollest things Harry Maylie had ever heard, and caused Oliver to laugh proportionately; to the evident satisfaction of the doctor, who laughed immoderately at Harry Maylie, and made Harry laugh almost as heartily, by the very force of sympathy. So, they were as pleasant a party as, under the circumstances, they could well have been; and it was late before they retired, with light and thankful hearts, to take that rest of which, after the doubt and suspense they had recently undergone, they stood much in need.    Oliver rose next morning, in better heart, and went about Oliver usual occupations, with more hope and pleasure than Oliver had known for many days. The birds were once more hung out, to sing, in The birds old places; and the sweetest wild flowers that could be found, were once more gathered to gladden Rose with The birds beauty. The melancholy which had seemed to the sad eyes of The boy to hang, for days past, over every object, beautiful as all were, was dispelled by magic. The dew seemed to sparkle more brightly on the green leaves; the air to rustle among them with a sweeter music; and the sky itself to look more blue and bright. Such is the influence which the condition of our own thoughts, exercise, even over the appearance of external objects. Men who look on nature, and Men who look on nature, and their fellow men, and cry that all is dark and gloomy fellow men, and cry that all is dark and gloomy, are in the right; but the sombre colours are reflections from the sombre colours own jaundiced eyes and hearts. The real hues are delicate, and need a clearer vision.    It is worthy of remark, and Oliver did not fail to note it at the time, that Oliver morning expeditions were no longer made alone. Harry Maylie, after the very first morning when Harry Maylie met Oliver coming laden home, was seized with such a passion for flowers, and displayed such a taste in their arrangement, as left Harry Maylie young companion far behind. If Oliver were behindhand in these respects, Oliver knew where the best were to be found; and morning after morning Oliver were behindhand in these respects scoured the country together, and brought home the fairest that blossomed. The window of the young lady chamber was opened now; for The window of the young lady chamber loved to feel the rich summer air stream in, and revive The window of the young lady chamber with The window of the young lady chamber freshness; but there always stood in water, just inside the lattice, one particular little bunch, which was made up with great care, every morning. Oliver could not help noticing that the withered flowers were never thrown away, although the little vase was regularly replenished; nor, could Oliver help observing, that whenever The doctor came into the garden, Oliver invariably cast Oliver eyes up to that particular corner, and nodded Oliver head most expressively, as Oliver set forth on Oliver morning walk. Pending these observations, the days were flying by; and Rose was rapidly recovering.    Nor did Oliver time hang heavy on Oliver hands, although the young lady had not yet left the young lady , and there were no evening walks, save now and then, for a short distance, with the old lady. Oliver applied Oliver, with redoubled assiduity, to the instructions of the white headed old gentleman, and laboured so hard that Oliver quick progress surprised even Oliver. It was while Oliver was engaged in this pursuit, that Oliver was greatly startled and distressed by a most unexpected occurrence.    The little room in which Oliver was accustomed to sit, when busy at Oliver books, was on the ground floor, at the back of the house. It was quite a cottage room, with a lattice window: around which were clusters of jessamine and honeysuckle, that crept over the casement, and filled the place with their delicious perfume. It looked into a garden, whence a wicket gate opened into a small paddock; all beyond, was fine meadow land and wood. There was no other dwelling near, in that direction; and the prospect no other dwelling near commanded was very extensive.    One beautiful evening, when the first shades of twilight were beginning to settle upon the earth, Oliver sat at The window of the young lady chamber, intent upon his books. Oliver had been poring over his books for some time; and, as the day had been uncommonly sultry, and Oliver had exerted Oliver a great deal, it is no disparagement to the authors, whoever the authors may have been, to say, that gradually and by slow degrees, Oliver fell asleep.    There is a kind of sleep that steals upon us sometimes, which, while it holds the body prisoner, does not free the mind from a sense of things about the mind, and enable the mind to ramble at the mind pleasure. So far as an overpowering heaviness, a prostration of strength, and an utter inability to control our thoughts or power of motion, can be called sleep, this is it; and yet, our have a consciousness of all that is going on about our, and, if our dream at such a time, words which are really spoken, or sounds which really exist at the moment, accommodate themselves with surprising readiness to our visions, until reality and imagination become so strangely blended that it is afterwards almost matter of impossibility to separate the two. Nor is this, the most striking phenomenon incidental to such a state. this is an undoubted fact, that although our senses of touch and sight be for the time dead, yet our sleeping thoughts, and the visionary scenes that pass before our, will be influenced and materially influenced, by the mere silent presence of some external object; which may not have been near our when our closed our eyes: and of whose vicinity our have had no waking consciousness.    Oliver knew, perfectly well, that Oliver was in Oliver own little room; that his books were lying on the table before Oliver; that the sweet air was stirring among the creeping plants outside. And yet Oliver was asleep. Suddenly, the scene changed; the air became close and confined; and Oliver thought, with a glow of terror, that Oliver was in the house again. There sat Oliver, in Oliver accustomed corner, pointing at Oliver, and whispering to another man, with Oliver face averted, who sat beside Oliver.    “Hush, my dear!” Oliver thought Oliver heard the Jew say; “it is Oliver, sure enough. Come away.”    “Oliver!” Oliver seemed to answer; “could I mistake Oliver, think you? If a crowd of ghosts were to put a crowd of ghosts into Oliver exact shape, and Oliver stood amongst a crowd of ghosts, there is something that would tell me how to point Oliver out. If you buried Oliver fifty feet deep, and took me across Oliver grave, I fancy I should know, if there wasn’t a mark above a mark, that Oliver lay buried there?”    Oliver seemed to say this, with such dreadful hatred, that Oliver awoke with the fear, and started up.    Good Heaven! what was that, which sent the blood tingling to Oliver heart, and deprived Oliver of Oliver voice, and of power to move! There there at the window close before Oliver so close, that Oliver could have almost touched Oliver before Oliver started back: with Oliver eyes peering into the room, and meeting Oliver: there stood the Jew! And beside Oliver, white with rage or fear, or both, were the scowling features of the man who had accosted Oliver in the inn yard.    It was but an instant, a glance, a flash, before his eyes; and an instant, a glance, a flash, before his eyes were gone. But an instant, a glance, a flash, before his eyes had recognised Oliver, and Oliver an instant, a glance, a flash, before his eyes; and an instant, a glance, a flash, before his eyes look was as firmly impressed upon Oliver memory, as if his memory had been deeply carved in stone, and set before Oliver from Oliver birth. Oliver stood transfixed for a moment; then, leaping from the window into the garden, called loudly for help.  CHAPTER 36
XXXV.  CONTAINING THE UNSATISFACTORY RESULT OF OLIVER’S ADVENTURE; AND A CONVERSATION OF SOME IMPORTANCE BETWEEN HARRY MAYLIE AND ROSE    When the inmates of the house, attracted by OLIVER’S cries, hurried to the spot from which the inmates of the house, attracted by Oliver cries proceeded, the inmates of the house, attracted by Oliver cries found OLIVER’S, pale and agitated, pointing in the direction of the meadows behind the house, and scarcely able to articulate the words, “The Jew! the Jew!”    Mr. Giles was at a loss to comprehend what this outcry meant; but Harry Maylie, whose perceptions were something quicker, and who had heard OLIVER’S history from OLIVER’S mother, understood it at once.    “What direction did Mr. Giles take?” Mr. Giles asked, catching up a heavy stick which was standing in a corner.    “That,” replied OLIVER’S, pointing out the course Mr. Giles had taken; “I missed them in an instant.”    “Then, them are in the ditch!” said Harry. “Follow! And keep as near Mr. Giles, as you can.” So saying, Mr. Giles sprang over the hedge, and darted off with a speed which rendered it matter of exceeding difficulty for the others to keep near Mr. Giles.    Mr. Giles followed as well as Mr. Giles could; and OLIVER’S followed too; and in the course of a minute or two, Mr. Losberne, who had been out walking, and just then returned, tumbled over the hedge after the hedge, and picking OLIVER’S up with more agility than OLIVER’S could have been supposed to possess, struck into the same course at no contemptible speed, shouting all the while, most prodigiously, to know what was the matter.    On they all went; nor stopped they all once to breathe, until the leader, striking off into an angle of the field indicated by OLIVER’S, began to search, narrowly, the ditch and hedge adjoining; which afforded time for the remainder of the party to come up; and for OLIVER’S to communicate to Mr. Losberne the circumstances that had led to so vigorous a pursuit.    The search was all in vain. There were not even the traces of recent footsteps, to be seen. they all stood now, on the summit of a little hill, commanding the open fields in every direction for three or four miles. There was the village in the hollow on the left; but, in order to gain that, after pursuing the track OLIVER’S had pointed out, they all must have made a circuit of open ground, which it was impossible they all could have accomplished in so short a time. A thick wood skirted the meadow land in another direction; but they all could not have gained that covert for the same reason.    “It must have been a dream, OLIVER’S,” said Harry Maylie.    “Oh no, indeed, sir,” replied OLIVER’S, shuddering at the very recollection of the old wretch countenance; “I saw sir too plainly for that. I saw them both, as plainly as I see you now.”    “Who was the other?” inquired Harry and Mr. Losberne, together.    “The very same man I told you of, who came so suddenly upon me at the inn,” said OLIVER’S. “We had We eyes fixed full upon each other; and I could swear to OLIVER’S.”    “They took this way?” demanded Harry: “are you sure?”    “As I am that they all were at the window,” replied OLIVER’S, pointing down, as OLIVER’S spoke, to the hedge which divided the cottage garden from the meadow. “The tall man leaped over, just there; and the Jew, running a few paces to the right, crept through that gap.”    The two gentlemen watched OLIVER’S earnest face, as OLIVER’S spoke, and looking from OLIVER’S to each other, seemed to feel satisfied of the accuracy of what OLIVER’S said. Still, in no direction were there any appearances of the trampling of men in hurried flight. The grass was long; but The grass was trodden down nowhere, save where their own feet had crushed The grass. The sides and brinks of the ditches were of damp clay; but in no one place could The sides and brinks of the ditches discern the print of men shoes, or the slightest mark which would indicate that any feet had pressed the ground for hours before.    “This is strange!” said Harry.    “Strange?” echoed the doctor. “Blathers and Duff, themselves, could make nothing of it.”    Notwithstanding the evidently useless nature of Blathers and Duff, themselves search, Blathers and Duff, themselves did not desist until the coming on of night rendered it further prosecution hopeless; and even then, Blathers and Duff, themselves gave it up with reluctance. Giles was dispatched to the different ale houses in the village, furnished with the best description Oliver could give of the appearance and dress of the strangers. Of the different ale houses in the village, furnished with the best description Oliver could give of the appearance and dress of the strangers, the Jew was, at all events, sufficiently remarkable to be remembered, supposing the Jew had been seen drinking, or loitering about; but Giles returned without any intelligence, calculated to dispel or lessen the mystery.    On the next day, fresh search was made, and the inquiries renewed; but with no better success. On the day following, Oliver and Mr. Maylie repaired to the market town, in the hope of seeing or hearing something of the men there; but this effort was equally fruitless. After a few days, the affair began to be forgotten, as most affairs are, when wonder, having no fresh food to support it, dies away of it.    Meanwhile, Rose was rapidly recovering. Rose had left Rose room: was able to go out; and mixing once more with the family, carried joy into the hearts of all.    But, although this happy change had a visible effect on the little circle; and although cheerful voices and merry laughter were once more heard in the cottage; there was at times, an unwonted restraint upon some there: even upon Rose Rose: which Oliver could not fail to remark. Mrs. Maylie and Rose son were often closeted together for a long time; and more than once Rose appeared with traces of tears upon Rose face. After Mr. Losberne had fixed a day for Mr. Losberne departure to Chertsey, these symptoms increased; and Chertsey became evident that something was in progress which affected the peace of the young lady, and of somebody else besides.    At length, one morning, when Rose was alone in the breakfast parlour, Harry Maylie entered; and, with some hesitation, begged permission to speak with Harry Maylie for a few moments.    “A few a very few will suffice, Rose,” said the young man, drawing the young man chair towards Harry Maylie. “What I shall have to say, has already presented itself to your mind; the most cherished hopes of my heart are not unknown to you, though from my lips you have not heard the most cherished hopes of my heart stated.”    Rose had been very pale from the moment of his entrance; but that might have been the effect of Harry Maylie recent illness. Harry Maylie merely bowed; and bending over some plants that stood near, waited in silence for his to proceed.    “I I ought to have left here, before,” said Harry.    “You should, indeed,” replied Rose. “Forgive me for saying so, but I wish you had.”    “I was brought here, by the most dreadful and agonising of all apprehensions,” said the young man; “the fear of losing the one dear being on whom my every wish and hope are fixed. You had been dying; trembling between earth and heaven. We know that when the young, the beautiful, and good, are visited with sickness, their pure spirits insensibly turn towards their bright home of lasting rest; We know, heaven help We! that the best and fairest of We kind, too often fade in blooming.”    There were tears in the eyes of the gentle girl, as these words were spoken; and when one fell upon the flower over which the gentle girl bent, and glistened brightly in its cup, making its more beautiful, its seemed as though the outpouring of the gentle girl fresh young heart, claimed kindred naturally, with the loveliest things in nature.    “A creature,” continued the young man, passionately, “a creature as fair and innocent of guile as one of God own angels, fluttered between life and death. Oh! who could hope, when the distant world to which the gentle girl was akin, half opened to the gentle girl view, that the gentle girl would return to the sorrow and calamity of this! Rose, Rose, to know that you were passing away like some soft shadow, which a light from above, casts upon the earth; to have no hope that you would be spared to those who linger here; hardly to know a reason why you should be; to feel that you belonged to that bright sphere whither so many of the fairest and the best have winged those who linger here early flight; and yet to pray, amid all these consolations, that you might be restored to those who loved you these were distractions almost too great to bear. those who loved you these were mine, by day and night; and with those who loved you these, came such a rushing torrent of fears, and apprehensions, and selfish regrets, lest you should die, and never know how devotedly I loved you, as almost bore down sense and reason in mine course. You recovered. Day by day, and almost hour by hour, some drop of health came back, and mingling with the spent and feeble stream of life which circulated languidly within you, swelled some drop of health again to a high and rushing tide. I have watched you change almost from death, to life, with eyes that turned blind with their eagerness and deep affection. Do not tell me that you wish I had lost this; for this has softened my heart to all mankind.”    “I did not mean that,” said Rose, weeping; “I only wish you had left here, that you might have turned to high and noble pursuits again; to pursuits well worthy of you.”    “There is no pursuit more worthy of me: more worthy of the highest nature that exists: than the struggle to win such a heart as you,” said the young man, taking her hand. “Rose, my own dear Rose! For years for years I have loved you; hoping to win my way to fame, and then come proudly home and tell you it had been pursued only for you to share; thinking, in my daydreams, how I would remind you, in that happy moment, of the many silent tokens I had given of a boy attachment, and claim your hand, as in redemption of some old mute contract that had been sealed between us! That time has not arrived; but here, with not fame won, and no young vision realised, I offer you the heart so long your own, and stake my all upon the words with which you greet the offer.”    “Your behaviour has ever been kind and noble.” said Rose, mastering the emotions by which she was agitated. “As you believe that I am not insensible or ungrateful, so hear my answer.”    “It is, that I may endeavour to deserve you; It is, RoseRose?”    “It is,” replied Rose, “that you must endeavour to forget me; not as your old and dearly attached companion, for that would wound me deeply; but, as the object of your love. Look into the world; think how many hearts you would be proud to gain, are there. Confide some other passion to me, if you will; I will be the truest, warmest, and most faithful friend you have.”    There was a pause, during which, Rose, who had covered she face with one hand, gave free vent to she tears. Harry still retained the other.    “And your reasons, Rose,” Harry said, at length, in a low voice; “your reasons for this decision?”    “You have a right to know them,” rejoined Rose. “You can say nothing to alter my resolution. It is a duty that I must perform. I owe It, alike to others, and to me.”    “To me?”    “Yes, Harry. I owe it to me, that I, a friendless, portionless, girl, with a blight upon my name, should not give your friends reason to suspect that I had sordidly yielded to your first passion, and fastened me, a clog, on all your hopes and projects. I owe it to you and yours, to prevent you from opposing, in the warmth of your generous nature, this great obstacle to your progress in the world.”    “If your inclinations chime with your sense of duty ” Harry began.    “They do not,” replied Rose, colouring deeply.    “Then you return my love?” said Harry. “Say but that, RoseRose; say but that; and soften the bitterness of this hard disappointment!”    “If I could have done so, without doing heavy wrong to him I loved,” rejoined Rose, “I could have ”    “Have received this declaration very differently?” said Harry. “Do not conceal that from Rose, at least, Rose.”    “I could,” said Rose. “Stay!” Rose added, disengaging Rose hand, “why should we prolong this painful interview? Most painful to me, and yet productive of lasting happiness, notwithstanding; for it will be happiness to know that I once held the high place in your regard which I now occupy, and every triumph you achieve in life will animate me with new fortitude and firmness. Farewell, Harry! As we have met to day, we meet no more; but in other relations than those in which this conversation have placed we, we may be long and happily entwined; and may every blessing that the prayers of a true and earnest heart can call down from the source of all truth and sincerity, cheer and prosper you!”    “Another word, Rose,” said Harry. “Your reason in your own words. From your own lips, let me hear Your reason in your own words!”    “The prospect before you,” answered Rose, firmly, “is a brilliant one. All the honours to which great talents and powerful connections can help men in public life, are in store for you. But those connections are proud; and I will neither mingle with such as may hold in scorn the mother who gave me life; nor bring disgrace or failure on the son of her who has so well supplied that mother place. In a word,” said the young lady, turning away, as the young lady temporary firmness forsook the young lady, “there is a stain upon my name, which the world visits on innocent heads. I will carry a stain upon my name, which the world visits on innocent heads into no blood but my own; and the reproach shall rest alone on me.”    “One word more, Rose. Dearest Rose! one more!” cried Harry, throwing Harry before the young lady. “If I had been less less fortunate, the world would call the world if some obscure and peaceful life had been my destiny if I had been poor, sick, helpless would you have turned from me then? Or has my probable advancement to riches and honour, given this scruple birth?”    “Do not press me to reply,” answered Rose. “The question does not arise, and never will. It is unfair, almost unkind, to urge It.”    “If your answer be what I almost dare to hope it is,” retorted Harry, “It will shed a gleam of happiness upon my lonely way, and light the path before me. It is not an idle thing to do so much, by the utterance of a few brief words, for one who loves you beyond all else. Oh, Rose: in the name of my ardent and enduring attachment; in the name of all I have suffered for you, and all you doom me to undergo; answer me this one question!”    “Then, if your lot had been differently cast,” rejoined Rose; “if you had been even a little, but not so far, above me; if I could have been a help and comfort to you in any humble scene of peace and retirement, and not a blot and drawback in ambitious and distinguished crowds; I should have been spared this trial. I have every reason to be happy, very happy, now; but then, Harry, I own I should have been happier.”    Busy recollections of old hopes, cherished as a girl, long ago, crowded into the mind of Rose, while making this avowal; but Busy recollections of old hopes, cherished as a girl brought tears with Busy recollections of old hopes, cherished as a girl, as old hopes will when Busy recollections of old hopes, cherished as a girl come back withered; and Busy recollections of old hopes, cherished as a girl relieved her.    “I cannot help this weakness, and this weakness makes my purpose stronger,” said Rose, extending her hand. “I must leave you now, indeed.”    “I ask one promise,” said Harry. “Once, and only once more, say within a year, but it may be much sooner, I may speak to Harry again on this subject, for the last time.”    “Not to press me to alter my right determination,” replied Rose, with a melancholy smile; “it will be useless.”    “No,” said Harry; “to hear you repeat it, if you will finally repeat it! I will lay at your feet, whatever of station of fortune I may possess; and if you still adhere to your present resolution, will not seek, by word or act, to change your present resolution.”    “Then let it be so,” rejoined Rose; “it is but one pang the more, and by that time I may be enabled to bear it better.”    She extended She again. But the young man caught She to the young man bosom; and imprinting one kiss on She beautiful forehead, hurried from the room.  CHAPTER 37
XXXVI.  IS A VERY SHORT ONE, AND MAY APPEAR OF NO GREAT IMPORTANCE IN ITS PLACE, BUT IT SHOULD BE READ NOTWITHSTANDING, AS A SEQUEL TO THE LAST, AND A KEY TO ONE THAT WILL FOLLOW WHEN ITS TIME ARRIVES    “And so you are resolved to be my travelling companion this morning; eh?” said the doctor, as Harry Maylie joined Harry Maylie and Oliver at the breakfast table. “Why, you are not in the same mind or intention two half hours together!”    “You will tell me a different tale one of these days,” said Harry, colouring without any perceptible reason.    “I hope I may have good cause to do so,” replied Mr. Losberne; “though I confess I don’t think I shall. But yesterday morning you had made up your mind, in a great hurry, to stay here, and to accompany your mother, like a dutiful son, to the sea side. Before noon, you announce that you are going to do me the honour of accompanying me as far as I go, on your road to London. And at night, you urge me, with great mystery, to start before the ladies are stirring; the consequence of which is, that young Oliver here is pinned down to Oliver breakfast when Oliver ought to be ranging the meadows after botanical phenomena of all kinds. Too bad, isn’t it, young Oliver here?”    “I should have been very sorry not to have been at home when you and Mr. Maylie went away, sir,” rejoined young Oliver here.    “That a fine fellow,” said the doctor; “you shall come and see me when you return. But, to speak seriously, Harry; has any communication from the great nobs produced this sudden anxiety on your part to be gone?”    “the great nobs,” replied Harry, “under which designation, I presume, you include my most stately uncle, have not communicated with Mr. Maylie at all, since I have been here; nor, at this time of the year, is it likely that anything would occur to render necessary my immediate attendance among anything.”    “Well,” said the doctor, “you are a queer fellow. But of course anything will get you into parliament at the election before Christmas, and these sudden shiftings and changes are no bad preparation for political life. There something in that. Good training is always desirable, whether the race be for place, cup, or sweepstakes.”    Mr. Maylie looked as if Mr. Maylie could have followed up this short dialogue by one or two remarks that would have staggered the doctor not a little; but Mr. Maylie contented Mr. Maylie with saying, “We shall see,” and pursued the subject no farther. The post chaise drove up to the door shortly afterwards; and Giles coming in for the luggage, the doctor bustled out, to see the luggage packed.    “Oliver,” said Mr. Maylie, in a low voice, “let me speak a word with Oliver.”    Oliver walked into the window recess to which Mr. Maylie beckoned Oliver; much surprised at the mixture of sadness and boisterous spirits, which Oliver whole behaviour displayed.    “You can write well now?” said Harry, laying Harry hand upon Harry arm.    “I hope so, sir,” replied Oliver.    “I shall not be at home again, perhaps for some time; I wish you would write to sir say once a fort night: every alternate Monday: to the General Post Office in London. Will you?”    “Oh! certainly, sir; I shall be proud to do it,” exclaimed Oliver, greatly delighted with the commission.    “I should like to know how how my mother and Mr. Maylie are,” said the young man; “and you can fill up a sheet by telling me what walks you take, and what you talk about, and whether she they, I mean seem happy and quite well. You understand me?”    “Oh! quite, sir, quite,” replied Oliver.    “I would rather you did not mention it to they,” said Harry, hurrying over Harry words; “because it might make my mother anxious to write to sir oftener, and it is a trouble and worry to my mother. Let it be a secret between you and me; and mind you tell me everything! I depend upon you.”    Oliver, quite elated and honoured by a sense of Oliver importance, faithfully promised to be secret and explicit in Oliver communications. Mr. Maylie took leave of Mr. Maylie, with many assurances of Mr. Maylie regard and protection.    The doctor was in the chaise; Giles (who, The doctor had been arranged, should be left behind) held the door open in Mr. Maylie hand; and the women servants were in the garden, looking on. Harry cast one slight glance at the latticed window, and jumped into the carriage.    “Drive on!” Mr. Maylie cried, “hard, fast, full gallop! Nothing short of flying will keep pace with Mr. Maylie, to day.”    “Halloa!” cried The doctor, letting down the front glass in a great hurry, and shouting to the postillion; “something very short of flying will keep pace with Mr. Maylie. Do you hear?”    Jingling and clattering, till distance rendered its noise inaudible, and its rapid progress only perceptible to the eye, the vehicle wound the vehicle way along the road, almost hidden in a cloud of dust: now wholly disappearing, and now becoming visible again, as intervening objects, or the intricacies of the way, permitted. It was not until even the dusty cloud was no longer to be seen, that the gazers dispersed.    And there was one looker on, who remained with eyes fixed upon the spot where the carriage had disappeared, long after the carriage was many miles away; for, behind the white curtain which had shrouded her from view when Harry raised Harry eyes towards the window, sat Rose her.    “Harry seems in high spirits and happy,” her said, at length. “I feared for a time Harry might be otherwise. I was mistaken. I am very, very glad.”    Tears are signs of gladness as well as grief; but those which coursed down Rose face, as her sat pensively at the window, still gazing in the same direction, seemed to tell more of sorrow than of joy.  CHAPTER 38
XXXVII.  IN WHICH THE READER MAY PERCEIVE A CONTRAST, NOT UNCOMMON IN MATRIMONIAL CASES    Mr. Bumble sat in the workhouse parlour, with Mr. Bumble eyes moodily fixed on the cheerless grate, whence, as it was summer time, no brighter gleam proceeded, than the reflection of certain sickly rays of the sun, which were sent back from its cold and shining surface. A paper fly cage dangled from the ceiling, to which Mr. Bumble occasionally raised his eyes in gloomy thought; and, as the heedless insects hovered round the gaudy net work, Mr. Bumble would heave a deep sigh, while a more gloomy shadow overspread Mr. Bumble countenance. Mr. Bumble was meditating; it might be that the insects brought to mind, some painful passage in Mr. Bumble own past life.    Nor was Mr. Bumble gloom the only thing calculated to awaken a pleasing melancholy in the bosom of a spectator. There were not wanting other appearances, and those closely connected with Mr. Bumble own person, which announced that a great change had taken place in the position of Mr. Bumble affairs. The laced coat, and the cocked hat; where were The laced coat, and the cocked hat? Mr. Bumble still wore knee breeches, and dark cotton stockings on Mr. Bumble nether limbs; but The laced coat, and the cocked hat were not knee breeches. The laced coat, and the cocked hat was wide skirted; and in that respect like The laced coat, and the cocked hat, but, oh how different! The mighty cocked hat was replaced by a modest round one. Mr. Bumble was no longer a beadle.    There are some promotions in life, which, independent of the more substantial rewards some promotions in life, which, independent of the more substantial rewards they offer, require peculiar value and dignity from the coats and waistcoats connected with them offer, require peculiar value and dignity from the coats and waistcoats connected with some promotions in life, which, independent of the more substantial rewards they offer, require peculiar value and dignity from the coats and waistcoats connected with them. A field marshal has his uniform; a bishop his silk apron; a counsellor his silk gown; a beadle Mr. Bumble cocked hat. Strip the bishop of Mr. Bumble apron, or the beadle of Mr. Bumble hat and lace; what are they? Men. Mere men. Dignity, and even holiness too, sometimes, are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine.    Mr. Bumble had married Mrs. Corney, and was master of the workhouse. Another beadle had come into power. On Another beadle the cocked hat, gold laced coat, and staff, had all three descended.    “And to morrow two months it was done!” said Mr. Bumble, with a sigh. “It seems a age.”    Mr. Bumble might have meant that Mr. Bumble had concentrated a whole existence of happiness into the short space of eight weeks; but a sigh there was a vast deal of meaning in a sigh.    “I sold myself,” said Mr. Bumble, pursuing the same train of relection, “for six teaspoons, a pair of sugar tongs, and a milk pot; with a small quantity of second hand furniture, and twenty pound in money. I went very reasonable. Cheap, dirt cheap!”    “Cheap!” cried a shrill voice in Mr. Bumble ear: “you would have been dear at any price; and dear enough I paid for you, Lord above knows that!”    Mr. Bumble turned, and encountered the face of Mr. Bumble interesting consort, who, imperfectly comprehending the few words Mr. Bumble had overheard of Mr. Bumble complaint, had hazarded the foregoing remark at a venture.    “Mrs. Bumble, ma’am!” said Mr. Bumble, with a sentimental sternness.    “Well!” cried the lady.    “Have the goodness to look at myself,” said Mr. Bumble, fixing Mr. Bumble eyes upon the lady.    “If the lady stands such a eye as that,” said Mr. Bumble to Mr. Bumble, “the lady can stand anything. It is a eye I never knew to fail with paupers. If It fails with the lady, my power is gone.”    Whether an exceedingly small expansion of eye be sufficient to quell paupers, who, being lightly fed, are in no very high condition; or whether the late Mrs. Corney was particularly proof against eagle glances; are matters of opinion. The matter of fact, is, that the matron was in no way overpowered by Mr. Bumble scowl, but, on the contrary, treated it with great disdain, and even raised a laugh thereat, which sounded as though it were genuine.    On hearing this most unexpected sound, Mr. Bumble looked, first incredulous, and afterwards amazed. Mr. Bumble then relapsed into Mr. Bumble former state; nor did Mr. Bumble rouse Mr. Bumble until Mr. Bumble attention was again awakened by the voice of Mr. Bumble partner.    “Are you going to sit snoring there, all day?” inquired Mr. Bumble.    “I am going to sit here, as long as I think proper, ma’am,” rejoined Mr. Bumble; “and although I was not snoring, I shall snore, gape, sneeze, laugh, or cry, as the humour strikes me; such being my prerogative.”    “Your prerogative!” sneered Mr. Bumble, with ineffable contempt.    “I said the word, ma’am,” said Mr. Bumble. “The prerogative of a man is to command.”    “And what the prerogative of a woman, in the name of Goodness?” cried the relict of Mr. Corney deceased.    “To obey, ma’am,” thundered Mr. Bumble. “Your late unfortunate husband should have taught it you; and then, perhaps, Your late unfortunate husband might have been alive now. I wish Your late unfortunate husband was, poor man!”    Mrs. Bumble, seeing at a glance, that the decisive moment had now arrived, and that a blow struck for the mastership on one side or other, must necessarily be final and conclusive, no sooner heard this allusion to the dead and gone, than she dropped into a chair, and with a loud scream that Mr. Bumble was a hard hearted brute, fell into a paroxysm of tears.    But, tears were not the things to find their way to Mr. Bumble soul; Mr. Bumble heart was waterproof. Like washable beaver hats that improve with rain, Mr. Bumble nerves were rendered stouter and more vigorous, by showers of tears, which, being tokens of weakness, and so far tacit admissions of Mr. Bumble own power, pleased and exalted Mr. Bumble. Mr. Bumble eyed Mr. Bumble good lady with looks of great satisfaction, and begged, in an encouraging manner, that his good lady should cry his good lady hardest: the exercise being looked upon, by the faculty, as strongly conducive to health.    “It opens the lungs, washes the countenance, exercises the eyes, and softens down the temper,” said Mr. Bumble. “So cry away.”    As Mr. Bumble discharged Mr. Bumble of this pleasantry, Mr. Bumble took Mr. Bumble hat from a peg, and putting his hat on, rather rakishly, on one side, as a man might, who felt a man had asserted a man superiority in a becoming manner, thrust a man hands into a man pockets, and sauntered towards the door, with much ease and waggishness depicted in a man whole appearance.    Now, Mrs. Corney that was, had tried the tears, because they were less troublesome than a manual assault; but, she was quite prepared to make trial of the latter mode of proceeding, as Mr. Bumble was not long in discovering.    The first proof Mr. Bumble experienced of the fact, was conveyed in a hollow sound, immediately succeeded by the sudden flying off of his hat to the opposite end of the room. This preliminary proceeding laying bare Mr. Bumble head, the expert lady, clasping Mr. Bumble tightly round the throat with one hand, inflicted a shower of blows (dealt with singular vigour and dexterity) upon it with the other. This done, she created a little variety by scratching Mr. Bumble face, and tearing Mr. Bumble hair; and, having, by this time, inflicted as much punishment as she deemed necessary for the offence, she pushed Mr. Bumble over a chair, which was luckily well situated for the purpose: and defied Mr. Bumble to talk about Mr. Bumble prerogative again, if Mr. Bumble dared.    “Get up!” said Mr. Bumble. “And take yourself away from here, unless you want me to do something desperate.”    Mr. Bumble rose with a very rueful countenance: wondering much what something desperate might be. Picking up Mr. Bumble hat, Mr. Bumble looked towards the door.    “Are you going?” demanded Mr. Bumble.    “Certainly, my dear, certainly,” rejoined Mr. Bumble, making a quicker motion towards the door. “I didn’t intend to I’m going, my dear! You are so very violent, that really I ”    At this instant, Mr. Bumble stepped hastily forward to replace the carpet, which had been kicked up in the scuffle. Mr. Bumble immediately darted out of the room, without bestowing another thought on Mr. Bumble unfinished sentence: leaving the late Mrs. Corney in full possession of the field.    Mr. Bumble was fairly taken by surprise, and fairly beaten. Mr. Bumble had a decided propensity for bullying: derived no inconsiderable pleasure from the exercise of petty cruelty; and, consequently, was (it is needless to say) a coward. This is by no means a disparagement to Mr. Bumble character; for many official personages, who are held in high respect and admiration, are the victims of similar infirmities. The remark is made, indeed, rather in Mr. Bumble favour than otherwise, and with a view of impressing the reader with a just sense of Mr. Bumble qualifications for office.    But, the measure of Mr. Bumble degradation was not yet full. After making a tour of the house, and thinking, for the first time, that the poor laws really were too hard on people; and that men who ran away from people wives, leaving men who ran away from their wives chargeable to the parish, ought, in justice to be visited with no punishment at all, but rather rewarded as meritorious individuals who had suffered much; Mr. Bumble came to a room where some of the female paupers were usually employed in washing the parish linen: when the sound of voices in conversation, now proceeded.    “Hem!” said Mr. Bumble, summoning up all Mr. Bumble native dignity. “These women at least shall continue to respect the prerogative. Hallo! hallo there! What do you mean by this noise, you hussies?”    With these words, Mr. Bumble opened the door, and walked in with a very fierce and angry manner: which was at once exchanged for a most humiliated and cowering air, as Mr. Bumble eyes unexpectedly rested on the form of Mr. Bumble lady wife.    “My dear,” said Mr. Bumble, “I didn’t know you were here.”    “Didn’t know I was here!” repeated Mr. Bumble. “What do you do here?”    “I thought they were talking rather too much to be doing they work properly, My dear,” replied Mr. Bumble: glancing distractedly at a couple of old women at the wash tub, who were comparing notes of admiration at the workhouse master humility.    “You thought they were talking too much?” said Mr. Bumble. “What business is What business of yours?”    “Why, my dear ” urged Mr. Bumble submissively.    “What business is What business of yours?” demanded Mr. Bumble, again.    “It very true, you’re matron here, my dear,” submitted Mr. Bumble; “but I thought you mightn’t be in the way just then.”    “I’ll tell you what, Mr. Bumble,” returned his good lady. “We don’t want any of your interference. You’re a great deal too fond of poking your nose into things that don’t concern you, making everybody in the house laugh, the moment your back is turned, and making yourself look like a fool every hour in the day. Be off; come!”    Mr. Bumble, seeing with excruciating feelings, the delight of the two old paupers, who were tittering together most rapturously, hesitated for an instant. Mrs. Bumble, whose patience brooked no delay, caught up a bowl of soap suds, and motioning Mr. Bumble towards the door, ordered Mr. Bumble instantly to depart, on pain of receiving the contents upon Mr. Bumble portly person.    What could Mr. Bumble do? Mr. Bumble looked dejectedly round, and slunk away; and, as Mr. Bumble reached the door, the titterings of the paupers broke into a shrill chuckle of irrepressible delight. the titterings of the paupers wanted but this. Mr. Bumble was degraded in their eyes; Mr. Bumble had lost caste and station before the very paupers; Mr. Bumble had fallen from all the height and pomp of beadleship, to the lowest depth of the most snubbed hen peckery.    “All in two months!” said Mrs. Bumble, whose patience brooked no delay. “Two months! No more than two months ago, I was not only my own master, but everybody else, so far as the porochial workhouse was concerned, and now! ”    It was too much. Mr. Bumble boxed the ears of the boy who opened the gate for Mr. Bumble (for Mr. Bumble had reached the portal in Mr. Bumble reverie); and walked, distractedly, into the street.    Mr. Bumble walked up one street, and down another, until exercise had abated the first passion of Mr. Bumble grief; and then the revulsion of feeling made Mr. Bumble thirsty. Mr. Bumble passed a great many public houses; but, at length paused before one in a by way, whose parlour, as Mr. Bumble gathered from a hasty peep over the blinds, was deserted, save by one solitary customer. It began to rain, heavily, at the moment. This determined Mr. Bumble. Mr. Bumble stepped in; and ordering something to drink, as Mr. Bumble passed the bar, entered the apartment into which Mr. Bumble had looked from the street.    The man who was seated there, was tall and dark, and wore a large cloak. The man who was seated there had the air of a stranger; and seemed, by a certain haggardness in The man who was seated there look, as well as by the dusty soils on The man who was seated there dress, to have travelled some distance. The man who was seated there eyed Bumble askance, as The man who was seated there entered, but scarcely deigned to nod The man who was seated there head in acknowledgment of The man who was seated there salutation.    Mr. Bumble had quite dignity enough for two; supposing even that the stranger had been more familiar: so Mr. Bumble drank Mr. Bumble gin and water in silence, and read the paper with great show of pomp and circumstance.    It so happened, however: as it will happen very often, when men fall into company under such circumstances: that Mr. Bumble felt, every now and then, a powerful inducement, which Mr. Bumble could not resist, to steal a look at the stranger: and that whenever Mr. Bumble did so, Mr. Bumble withdrew Mr. Bumble eyes, in some confusion, to find that the stranger was at that moment stealing a look at Mr. Bumble. Mr. Bumble awkwardness was enhanced by the very remarkable expression of the stranger eye, which was keen and bright, but shadowed by a scowl of distrust and suspicion, unlike anything Mr. Bumble had ever observed before, and repulsive to behold.    When they had encountered each other glance several times in this way, the stranger, in a harsh, deep voice, broke silence.    “Were you looking for me,” me said, “when you peered in at the window?”    “Not that I am aware of, unless you’re Mr. ” Here Mr. Bumble stopped short; for Mr. Bumble was curious to know the stranger name, and thought in Mr. Bumble impatience, Mr. Bumble might supply the blank.    “I see you were not,” said the stranger; an expression of quiet sarcasm playing about Mr. Bumble mouth; “or you have known my name. You don’t know my name. I would recommend you not to ask for my name.”    “I meant no harm, young man,” observed Mr. Bumble, majestically.    “And have done none,” said the stranger.    Another silence succeeded this short dialogue: which was again broken by the stranger.    “I have seen you before, I think?” said he. “You were differently dressed at that time, and I only passed you in the street, but I should know you again. You were beadle here, once; were you not?”    “I was,” said Mr. Bumble, in some surprise; “porochial beadle.”    “Just so,” rejoined the other, nodding he . “It was in that character I saw you. What are you now?”    “Master of the workhouse,” rejoined Mr. Bumble, slowly and impressively, to check any undue familiarity the stranger might otherwise assume. “Master of the workhouse, young man!”    “You have the same eye to your own interest, that you always had, I doubt not?” resumed the stranger, looking keenly into his eyes, as he raised his eyes in astonishment at the question.    “Don’t scruple to answer freely, man. I know you pretty well, you see.”    “I suppose, a married man,” replied Mr. Bumble, shading his eyes with Mr. Bumble hand, and surveying the stranger, from head to foot, in evident perplexity, “is not more averse to turning an honest penny when Mr. Bumble can, than a single one. Porochial officers are not so well paid that Porochial officers can afford to refuse any little extra fee, when it comes to Porochial officers in a civil and proper manner.”    the stranger smiled, and nodded his head again: as much to say, his had not mistaken his man; then rang the bell.    “Fill this glass again,” his said, handing Mr. Bumble empty tumbler to the landlord. “Let it be strong and hot. You like it so, I suppose?”    “Not too strong,” replied Mr. Bumble, with a delicate cough.    “You understand what that means, landlord!” said the stranger, drily.    The host smiled, disappeared, and shortly afterwards returned with a steaming jorum: of which, the first gulp brought the water into Mr. Bumble eyes.    “Now listen to me,” said the stranger, after closing the door and window. “I came down to this place, to day, to find you out; and, by one of those chances which the devil throws in the way of the devil friends sometimes, you walked into the very room I was sitting in, while you were uppermost in my mind. I want some information from you. I don’t ask you to give it for nothing, slight as it is. Put up that, to begin with.”    As he spoke, he pushed a couple of sovereigns across the table to he companion, carefully, as though unwilling that the chinking of money should be heard without. When Mr. Bumble had scrupulously examined the coins, to see that the coins were genuine, and had put the coins up, with much satisfaction, in Mr. Bumble waistcoat pocket, Mr. Bumble went on:    “Carry your memory back let me see twelve years, last winter.”    “It a long time,” said Mr. Bumble. “Very good. I’ve done it.”    “The scene, the workhouse.”    “Good!”    “And the time, night.”    “Yes.”    “And the place, the crazy hole, wherever it was, in which miserable drabs brought forth the life and health so often denied to the life and health gave birth to puling children for the parish to rear; and hid the life and health shame, rot ’em in the grave!”    “The lying in room, I suppose?” said Mr. Bumble, not quite following the stranger excited description.    “Yes,” said stranger. “A boy was born there.”    “A many boys,” observed Mr. Bumble, shaking Mr. Bumble head, despondingly.    “A murrain on the young devils!” cried stranger; “I speak of one; a meek looking, pale faced boy, who was apprenticed down here, to a coffin maker I wish he had made he coffin, and screwed he body in his body and who afterwards ran away to London, as it was supposed.    “Why, you mean Oliver! Young Twist!” said Mr. Bumble; “I remember Mr. Bumble, of course. There wasn’t a obstinater young rascal ”    “It not of Mr. Bumble I want to hear; I’ve heard enough of Mr. Bumble,” said the stranger, stopping Mr. Bumble in the outset of a tirade on the subject of poor Oliver vices. “It of a woman; the hag that nursed Mr. Bumble mother. Where is his mother?”    “Where is his mother?” said Mr. Bumble, whom the gin and water had rendered facetious. “It would be hard to tell. There no midwifery there, whichever place his mother gone to; so I suppose his mother out of employment, anyway.”    “What do you mean?” demanded stranger, sternly.    “That his mother died last winter,” rejoined Mr. Bumble.    The man looked fixedly at The man when The man had given this information, and although The man did not withdraw The man eyes for some time afterwards, The man gaze gradually became vacant and abstracted, and The man seemed lost in thought. For some time, The man appeared doubtful whether The man ought to be relieved or disappointed by the intelligence; but at length The man breathed more freely; and withdrawing his eyes, observed that it was no great matter. With that The man rose, as if to depart.    But Mr. Bumble was cunning enough; and Mr. Bumble at once saw that an opportunity was opened, for the lucrative disposal of some secret in the possession of Mr. Bumble better half. Mr. Bumble well remembered the night of old Sally death, which the occurrences of that day had given Mr. Bumble good reason to recollect, as the occasion on which Mr. Bumble had proposed to Mrs. Corney; and although that lady had never confided to Mr. Bumble the disclosure of which that lady had been the solitary witness, Mr. Bumble had heard enough to know that it related to something that had occurred in the old woman attendance, as workhouse nurse, upon the young mother of Oliver Twist. Hastily calling this circumstance to mind, Mr. Bumble informed the stranger, with an air of mystery, that one woman had been closeted with the old harridan shortly before one woman died; and that one woman could, as Mr. Bumble had reason to believe, throw some light on the subject of Mr. Bumble inquiry.    “How can I find one woman?” said the stranger, thrown off his guard; and plainly showing that all his fears (whatever they were) were aroused afresh by the intelligence.    “Only through me,” rejoined Mr. Bumble.    “When?” cried the stranger, hastily.    “To morrow,” rejoined Mr. Bumble.    “At nine in the evening,” said the stranger, producing a scrap of paper, and writing down upon it, an obscure address by the water side, in characters that betrayed his agitation; “at nine in the evening, bring her to me there. I needn’t tell you to be secret. It your interest.”    With these words, me led the way to the door, after stopping to pay for the liquor that had been drunk. Shortly remarking that their roads were different, me departed, without more ceremony than an emphatic repetition of the hour of appointment for the following night.    On glancing at the address, the parochial functionary observed that the parochial functionary contained no name. the stranger had not gone far, so the stranger made after the parochial functionary to ask the stranger.    “What do you want?” cried The man, turning quickly round, as Mr. Bumble touched The man on the arm. “Following me?”    “Only to ask a question,” said the other, pointing to a scrap of paper. “What name am I to ask for?”    “Monks!” rejoined The man; and strode hastily away.  CHAPTER 39
XXXVIII.  CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF WHAT PASSED BETWEEN MR. AND MRS. BUMBLE, AND MR. MONKS, AT THEIR NOCTURNAL INTERVIEW    It was a dull, close, overcast summer evening. The clouds, which had been threatening all day, spread out in a dense and sluggish mass of vapour, already yielded large drops of rain, and seemed to presage a violent thunder storm, when Mr. and Mrs. Bumble, turning out of the main street of the town, directed Mr. and Mrs. Bumble course towards a scattered little colony of ruinous houses, distant from it some mile and a half, or thereabouts, and erected on a low unwholesome swamp, bordering upon the river.    Mr. and Mrs. Bumble were both wrapped in old and shabby outer garments, which might, perhaps, serve the double purpose of protecting Mr. and Mrs. Bumble persons from the rain, and sheltering Mr. and Mrs. Bumble from observation. Mr. Bumble carried a lantern, from which, however, no light yet shone; and trudged on, a few paces in front, as though the way being dirty to give Mr. Bumble wife the benefit of treading in Mr. Bumble heavy footprints. They went on, in profound silence; every now and then, Mr. Bumble relaxed Mr. Bumble pace, and turned Mr. Bumble head as if to make sure that Mr. Bumble helpmate was following; then, discovering that his helpmate was close at Mr. Bumble heels, Mr. Bumble mended Mr. Bumble rate of walking, and proceeded, at a considerable increase of speed, towards They place of destination.    This was far from being a place of doubtful character; for it had long been known as the residence of none but low ruffians, who, under various pretences of living by their labour, subsisted chiefly on plunder and crime. It was a collection of mere hovels: some, hastily built with loose bricks: others, of old worm eaten ship timber: jumbled together without any attempt at order or arrangement, and planted, for the most part, within a few feet of the river bank. A few leaky boats drawn up on the mud, and made fast to the dwarf wall which skirted it: and here and there an oar or coil of rope: appeared, at first, to indicate that the inhabitants of these miserable cottages pursued some avocation on the river; but a glance at the shattered and useless condition of the articles thus displayed, would have led a passer by, without much difficulty, to the conjecture that the inhabitants of these miserable cottages were disposed there, rather for the preservation of appearances, than with any view to the inhabitants of these miserable cottages being actually employed.    In the heart of this cluster of huts; and skirting the river, which its upper stories overhung; stood a large building, formerly used as a manufactory of some kind. its had, in its day, probably furnished employment to the inhabitants of the surrounding tenements. But its had long since gone to ruin. The rat, the worm, and the action of the damp, had weakened and rotted the piles on which its stood; and a considerable portion of the building had already sunk down into the water; while the remainder, tottering and bending over the dark stream, seemed to wait a favourable opportunity of following its old companion, and involving its in the same fate.    It was before this ruinous building that the worthy couple paused, as the first peal of distant thunder reverberated in the air, and the rain commenced pouring violently down.    “The place should be somewhere here,” said Bumble, consulting a scrap of paper he held in he hand.    “Halloa there!” cried a voice from above.    Following the sound, Mr. Bumble raised Mr. Bumble head and descried a man looking out of a door, breast high, on the second story.    “Stand still, a minute,” cried the voice; “I’ll be with you directly.” With which his head disappeared, and the door closed.    “Is that the man?” asked Mr. Bumble good lady.    Mr. Bumble nodded in the affirmative.    “Then, mind what I told you,” said the matron: “and be careful to say as little as you can, or you’ll betray us at once.”    Mr. Bumble, who had eyed the building with very rueful looks, was apparently about to express some doubts relative to the advisability of proceeding any further with the enterprise just then, when he was prevented by the appearance of Monks: who opened a small door, near which Mr. Bumble, who had eyed the building with very rueful looks stood, and beckoned them inwards.    “Come in!” he cried impatiently, stamping he foot upon the ground. “Don’t keep me here!”    The woman, who had hesitated at first, walked boldly in, without any other invitation. Mr. Bumble, who was ashamed or afraid to lag behind, followed: obviously very ill at ease and with scarcely any of that remarkable dignity which was usually his chief characteristic.    “What the devil made you stand lingering there, in the wet?” said Monks, turning round, and addressing Mr. Bumble, after Mr. Bumble had bolted the door behind them.    “us us were only cooling us,” stammered Bumble, looking apprehensively about ” stammered Bumble.    “Cooling yourselves!” retorted Monks. “Not all the rain that ever fell, or ever will fall, will put as much of hell fire out, as a man can carry about with a man. You won’t cool yourself so easily; don’t think it!”    With this agreeable speech, Monks turned short upon the matron, and bent Monks gaze upon the matron, till even the matron, who was not easily cowed, was fain to withdraw the matron eyes, and turn even she, who was not easily cowed towards the ground.    “This is the woman, is it?” demanded Monks.    “Hem! That is the woman,” replied Mr. Bumble, mindful of his wife caution.    “You think women never can keep secrets, I suppose?” said the matron, interposing, and returning, as she spoke, the searching look of Monks.    “I know women will always keep one till it found out,” said Monks.    “And what may that be?” asked the matron.    “The loss of their own good name,” replied Monks. “So, by the same rule, if a woman a party to a secret that might hang or transport her, I’m not afraid of her telling it to anybody; not I! Do you understand, mistress?”    “No,” rejoined the matron, slightly colouring as mistress spoke.    “Of course you don’t!” said Monks. “How should you?”    Bestowing something half way between a smile and a frown upon the man two companions, and again beckoning a smile and a frown upon his two companions to follow the man, the man hastened across the apartment, which was of considerable extent, but low in the roof. the man was preparing to ascend a steep staircase, or rather ladder, leading to another floor of warehouses above: when a bright flash of lightning streamed down the aperture, and a peal of thunder followed, which shook the crazy building to the crazy building centre.    “Hear it!” the man cried, shrinking back. “Hear it! Rolling and crashing on as if it echoed through a thousand caverns where the devils were hiding from it. I hate the sound!”    the man remained silent for a few moments; and then, removing the man hands suddenly from the man face, showed, to the unspeakable discomposure of Mr. Bumble, that it was much distorted and discoloured.    “These fits come over me, now and then,” said Monks, observing me alarm; “and thunder sometimes brings them on. Don’t mind me now; it all over for this once.”    Thus speaking, me led the way up the ladder; and hastily closing the window shutter of the room into which the window led, lowered a lantern which hung at the end of a rope and pulley passed through one of the heavy beams in the ceiling: and which cast a dim light upon an old table and three chairs that were placed beneath a dim light.    “Now,” said Monks, when Monks had all three seated Monks, “the sooner we come to we business, the better for all. The woman know what it is, does The woman?”    The question was addressed to Bumble; but Bumble wife anticipated the reply, by intimating that his wife was perfectly acquainted with the reply.    “Bumble is right in saying that you were with this hag the night this hag died; and that this hag told you something ”    “About the mother of the boy you named,” replied the matron interrupting the boy you named. “Yes.”    “The first question is, of what nature was this hag communication?” said Monks.    “That the second,” observed The woman with much deliberation. “The first is, what may the communication be worth?”    “Who the devil can tell that, without knowing of what kind it is?” asked Monks.    “Nobody better than you, I am persuaded,” answered Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit, as Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit yoke fellow could abundantly testify.    “Humph!” said Monks significantly, and with a look of eager inquiry; “there may be money worth to get, eh?”    “Perhaps there may,” was the composed reply.    “Something that was taken from Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit,” said Monks. “Something that Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit wore. Something that ”    “You had better bid,” interrupted Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit. “I have heard enough, already, to assure me that you are the man I ought to talk to.”    Mr. Bumble, who had not yet been admitted by the man I ought to talk better half into any greater share of the secret than the man I ought to talk had originally possessed, listened to this dialogue with outstretched neck and distended eyes: which the man I ought to talk directed towards the man I ought to talk wife and Monks, by turns, in undisguised astonishment; increased, if possible, when the latter sternly demanded, what sum was required for the disclosure.    “What it worth to you?” asked The woman, as collectedly as before.    “It may be nothing; it may be twenty pounds,” replied Monks. “Speak out, and let me know which.”    “Add five pounds to the sum you have named; give me five and twenty pounds in gold,” said The woman; “and I’ll tell you all I know. Not before.”    “Five and twenty pounds!” exclaimed Monks, drawing back.    “I spoke as plainly as I could,” replied Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit. “It not a large sum, either.”    “Not a large sum for a paltry secret, that may be nothing when it told!” cried Monks impatiently; “and which has been lying dead for twelve years past or more!”    “Such matters keep well, and, like good wine, often double Such matters value in course of time,” answered the matron, still preserving the resolute indifference the matron had assumed. “As to lying dead, there are those who will lie dead for twelve thousand years to come, or twelve million, for anything you or I know, who will tell strange tales at last!”    “What if I pay it for nothing?” asked Monks, hesitating.    “You can easily take it away again,” replied the matron. “I am but a woman; alone here; and unprotected.”    “Not alone, my dear, nor unprotected, neither,” submitted Mr. Bumble, in a voice tremulous with fear: “I am here, my dear. And besides,” said Mr. Bumble, my dear teeth chattering as my dear spoke, “Monks is too much of a gentleman to attempt any violence on porochial persons. Monks is aware that I am not a young man, my dear, and also that I am a little run to seed, as I may say; bu he has heerd: I say I have no doubt Monks has heerd, my dear: that I am a very determined officer, with very uncommon strength, if I’m once roused. I only want a little rousing; that all.”    As Mr. Bumble spoke, Mr. Bumble made a melancholy feint of grasping Mr. Bumble lantern with fierce determination; and plainly showed, by the alarmed expression of every feature, that Mr. Bumble did want a little rousing, and not a little, prior to making any very warlike demonstration: unless, indeed, against paupers, or other person or persons trained down for the purpose.    “You are a fool,” said Mrs. Bumble, in reply; “and had better hold your tongue.”    “Mr. Bumble had better have cut your tongue out, before Mr. Bumble came, if Mr. Bumble can’t speak in a lower tone,” said Monks, grimly. “So! Mr. Bumble your husband, eh?”    “Mr. Bumble my husband!” tittered the matron, parrying the question.    “I thought as much, when you came in,” rejoined Monks, marking the angry glance which the lady darted at the lady spouse as the lady spoke. “So much the better; I have less hesitation in dealing with two people, when I find that there only one will between two people. I’m in earnest. See here!”    Mr. Bumble thrust Mr. Bumble hand into a side pocket; and producing a canvas bag, told out twenty five sovereigns on the table, and pushed twenty five sovereigns on the table over to The woman.    “Now,” Mr. Bumble said, “gather twenty five sovereigns on the table up; and when this cursed peal of thunder, which I feel is coming up to break over the house top, is gone, let hear your story.”    The thunder, which seemed in fact much nearer, and to shiver and break almost over twenty five sovereigns on the table heads, having subsided, Monks, raising Mr. Bumble face from the table, bent forward to listen to what The woman should say. The faces of the three nearly touched, as the two men leant over the small table in the two men eagerness to hear, and The woman also leant forward to render The woman whisper audible. The sickly rays of the suspended lantern falling directly upon them, aggravated the paleness and anxiety of them countenances: which, encircled by the deepest gloom and darkness, looked ghastly in the extreme.    “When The woman, that we called old Sally, died,” the matron began, “The woman and I were alone.”    “Was there no one by?” asked Monks, in the same hollow whisper; “No sick wretch or idiot in some other bed? No one who could hear, and might, by possibility, understand?”    “Not a soul,” replied The woman; “we were alone. I stood alone beside the body when death came over the body.”    “Good,” said Monks, regarding Good attentively. “Go on.”    “Good spoke of a young creature,” resumed the matron, “who had brought a child into the world some years before; not merely in the same room, but in the same bed, in which Good then lay dying.”    “Ay?” said Monks, with quivering lip, and glancing over his shoulder, “Blood! How things come about!”    “a child was the one you named to a child last night,” said the matron, nodding carelessly towards her husband; “the mother this nurse had robbed.”    “In life?” asked Monks.    “In death,” replied The woman, with something like a shudder. “The woman stole from the corpse, when the corpse had hardly turned to one, that which the dead mother had prayed The woman, with The woman last breath, to keep for the infant sake.”    “The woman sold it,” cried Monks, with desperate eagerness; “did The woman sell it? Where? When? To whom? How long before?”    “As The woman told me, with great difficulty, that The woman had done this,” said the matron, “The woman fell back and died.”    “Without saying more?” cried Monks, in a voice which, from Monks very suppression, seemed only the more furious. “It a lie! I’ll not be played with. The woman said more. I’ll tear the life out of you both, but I’ll know what the life was.”    “The woman didn’t utter another word,” said The woman, to all appearance unmoved (as Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit was very far from being) by the strange man violence; “but The woman clutched my gown, violently, with one hand, which was partly closed; and when I saw that The woman was dead, and so removed the hand by force, I found she was dead clasped a scrap of dirty paper.”    “Which contained ” interposed Monks, stretching forward.    “Nothing,” replied The woman; “it was a pawnbroker duplicate.”    “For what?” demanded Monks.    “In good time I’ll tell you.” said The woman. “I judge that The woman had kept the trinket, for some time, in the hope of turning it to better account; and then had pawned it; and had saved or scraped together money to pay the pawnbroker interest year by year, and prevent it running out; so that if anything came of it, it could still be redeemed. Nothing had come of it; and, as I tell you, The woman died with the scrap of paper, all worn and tattered, in The woman hand. The time was out in two days; I thought something might one day come of The time too; and so redeemed the pledge.”    “Where is The time now?” asked Monks quickly.    “There,” replied The woman. And, as if glad to be relieved of it, The woman hastily threw upon the table a small kid bag scarcely large enough for a French watch, which Monks pouncing upon, tore open with trembling hands. it contained a little gold locket: in which were two locks of hair, and a plain gold wedding ring.    “it has the word ‘Agnes’ engraved on the inside,” said The woman.    “There is a blank left for the surname; and then follows the date; which is within a year before a child was born. I found out that.”    “And this is all?” said Monks, after a close and eager scrutiny of the contents of the little packet.    “All,” replied The woman.    Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit drew a long breath, as if Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit were glad to find that the story was over, and no mention made of taking the five and twenty pounds back again; and now Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit took courage to wipe the perspiration which had been trickling over Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit nose, unchecked, during the whole of the previous dialogue.    “I know nothing of the story, beyond what I can guess at,” said Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit wife addressing Monks, after a short silence; “and I want to know nothing; for it safer not. But I may ask you two questions, may I?”    “You may ask,” said Monks, with some show of surprise; “but whether I answer or not is another question.”    “ Which makes three,” observed Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit, essaying a stroke of facetiousness.    “Is that what you expected to get from me?” demanded the matron.    “It is,” replied Monks. “The other question?”    “What do you propose to do with It? Can It be used against me?”    “Never,” rejoined Monks; “nor against me either. See here! But don’t move a step forward, or your life is not worth a bulrush.”    With these words, that suddenly wheeled the table aside, and pulling an iron ring in the boarding, threw back a large trap door which opened close at Mr. Bumble feet, and caused that gentleman to retire several paces backward, with great precipitation.    “Look down,” said Monks, lowering the lantern into the gulf. “Don’t fear me. I could have let you down, quietly enough, when you were seated over it, if that had been my game.”    Thus encouraged, the matron drew near to the brink; and even Mr. Bumble himself, impelled by curiousity, ventured to do the same. The turbid water, swollen by the heavy rain, was rushing rapidly on below; and all other sounds were lost in the noise of its plashing and eddying against the green and slimy piles. There had once been a water mill beneath; the tide foaming and chafing round the few rotten stakes, and fragments of machinery that yet remained, seemed to dart onward, with a new impulse, when freed from the obstacles which had unavailingly attempted to stem its headlong course.    “If you flung a man body down there, where would it be to morrow morning?” said Monks, swinging the lantern to and fro in the dark well.    “Twelve miles down the river, and cut to pieces besides,” replied Bumble, recoiling at the thought.    Monks drew the little packet from Monks breast, where Monks had hurriedly thrust the little packet; and tying the little packet to a leaden weight, which had formed a part of some pulley, and was lying on the floor, dropped the little packet into the stream. the little packet fell straight, and true as a die; clove the water with a scarcely audible splash; and was gone.    The three looking into each other faces, seemed to breathe more freely.    “There!” said Monks, closing the trap door, which fell heavily back into Monks former position. “If the sea ever gives up the sea dead, as books say the sea will, the sea will keep the sea gold and silver to the sea, and that trash among the sea. We have nothing more to say, and may break up We pleasant party.”    “By all means,” observed Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit, with great alacrity.    “You’ll keep a quiet tongue in your head, will you?” said Monks, with a threatening look. “I am not afraid of your wife.”    “You may depend upon me, young man,” answered Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit, bowing Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit gradually towards the ladder, with excessive politeness. “On everybody account, young man; on my own, you know, Monks.”    “I am glad, for your sake, to hear it,” remarked Monks. “Light the lantern! And get away from here as fast as you can.”    It was fortunate that the conversation terminated at this point, or Mr. Bumble, who had bowed Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit to within six inches of the ladder, would infallibly have pitched headlong into the room below. Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit lighted the lantern from that which Monks had detached from the rope, and now carried in Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit hand; and making no effort to prolong the discourse, descended in silence, followed by your wife. Monks brought up the rear, after pausing on the steps to satisfy Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit that there were no other sounds to be heard than the beating of the rain without, and the rushing of the water.    They traversed the lower room, slowly, and with caution; for Monks started at every shadow; and Mr. Bumble, holding the lantern a foot above the ground, walked not only with remarkable care, but with a marvellously light step for a gentleman of Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit figure: looking nervously about Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit for hidden trap doors. The gate at which they had entered, was softly unfastened and opened by Monks; merely exchanging a nod with they mysterious acquaintance, they emerged into the wet and darkness outside.    they were no sooner gone, than Monks, who appeared to entertain an invincible repugnance to being left alone, called to a boy who had been hidden somewhere below. Bidding a boy who had been hidden somewhere below go first, and bear the light, a boy who had been hidden somewhere below returned to the chamber a boy who had been hidden somewhere below had just quitted.  CHAPTER 40
XXXIX.  INTRODUCES SOME RESPECTABLE CHARACTERS WITH WHOM THE READER IS ALREADY ACQUAINTED, AND SHOWS HOW MONKS AND THE JEW LAID THEIR WORTHY HEADS TOGETHER    On the evening following that upon which the three worthies mentioned in the last chapter, disposed of their little matter of business as therein narrated, Mr. William Sikes, awakening from a nap, drowsily growled forth an inquiry what time of night it was.    The room in which Mr. Sikes propounded this question, was not one of those Mr. Sikes had tenanted, previous to the Chertsey expedition, although it was in the same quarter of the town, and was situated at no great distance from Mr. Sikes former lodgings. It was not, in appearance, so desirable a habitation as Mr. Sikes old quarters: being a mean and badly furnished apartment, of very limited size; lighted only by one small window in the shelving roof, and abutting on a close and dirty lane. Nor were there wanting other indications of the good gentleman having gone down in the world of late: for a great scarcity of furniture, and total absence of comfort, together with the disappearance of all such small moveables as spare clothes and linen, bespoke a state of extreme poverty; while the meagre and attenuated condition of Mr. Sikes would have fully confirmed these symptoms, if the meagre and attenuated condition of Mr. Sikes himself had stood in any need of corroboration.    The housebreaker was lying on the bed, wrapped in The housebreaker white great coat, by way of dressing gown, and displaying a set of features in no degree improved by the cadaverous hue of illness, and the addition of a soiled nightcap, and a stiff, black beard of a week growth. The dog sat at the bedside: now eyeing The dog master with a wistful look, and now pricking The dog ears, and uttering a low growl as some noise in the street, or in the lower part of the house, attracted The dog attention. Seated by the window, busily engaged in patching an old waistcoat which formed a portion of the robber ordinary dress, was a female: so pale and reduced with watching and privation, that there would have been considerable difficulty in recognising her as the same Nancy who has already figured in this tale, but for the voice in which her replied to Mr. Sikes question.    “Not long gone seven,” said her. “How do you feel to night, Bill?”    “As weak as water,” replied Mr. Sikes, with an imprecation on Mr. Sikes eyes and limbs. “Here; lend us a hand, and let me get off this thundering bed anyhow.”    Illness had not improved Mr. Sikes temper; for, as her raised Illness up and led Illness to a chair, Illness muttered various curses on Illness awkwardness, and struck Illness.    “Whining are you?” said Mr. Sikes. “Come! Don’t stand snivelling there. If you can’t do anything better than that, cut off altogether. D’ye hear me?”    “I hear you,” replied her, turning her face aside, and forcing a laugh. “What fancy have you got in your head now?”    “Oh! you’ve thought better of it, have you?” growled Mr. Sikes, marking the tear which trembled in Mr. Sikes eye. “All the better for you, you have.”    “Why, you don’t mean to say, you’d be hard upon you to night, Bill,” said her, laying her hand upon Bill shoulder.    “No!” cried Mr. Sikes. “Why not?”    “Such a number of nights,” said the girl, with a touch of woman tenderness, which communicated something like sweetness of tone, even to her voice: “such a number of nights as I’ve been patient with you, nursing and caring for you, as if you had been a child: and this the first that I’ve seen you like you; you wouldn’t have served me as you did just now, if you’d thought of that, would you? Come, come; say you wouldn’t.”    “Well, then,” rejoined Mr. Sikes, “I wouldn’t. Why, damme, now, the girls whining again!”    “It nothing,” said her, throwing her into a chair. “Don’t you seem to mind me. It’ll soon be over.”    “What’ll be over?” demanded Mr. Sikes in a savage voice. “What foolery are you up to, now, again? Get up and bustle about, and don’t come over Mr. Sikes with your woman nonsense.”    At any other time, this remonstrance, and the tone in which it was delivered, would have had the desired effect; but her being really weak and exhausted, dropped her head over the back of a chair, and fainted, before Mr. Sikes could get out a few of the appropriate oaths with which, on similar occasions, Mr. Sikes was accustomed to garnish Mr. Sikes threats. Not knowing, very well, what to do, in this uncommon emergency; for Miss Nancy hysterics were usually of that violent kind which the patient fights and struggles out of, without much assistance; Mr. Sikes tried a little blasphemy: and finding that mode of treatment wholly ineffectual, called for assistance.    “What the matter here, my dear?” said Fagin, looking in.    “Lend a hand to her, can’t you?” replied Sikes impatiently. “Don’t stand chattering and grinning at Mr. Sikes!”    With an exclamation of surprise, Fagin hastened to the girl assistance, while Mr. John Dawkins (otherwise the Artful Dodger), who had followed Fagin venerable friend into the room, hastily deposited on the floor a bundle with which Fagin was laden; and snatching a bottle from the grasp of Master Charles Bates who came close at Fagin heels, uncorked a bottle in a twinkling with Fagin teeth, and poured a portion of a bottle contents down the patient throat: previously taking a taste, Fagin, to prevent mistakes.    “Give The girl a whiff of fresh air with the bellows, Charley,” said Mr. Dawkins; “and you slap The girl hands, Fagin, while Bill undoes the petticuts.”    These united restoratives, administered with great energy: especially that department consigned to Master Bates, who appeared to consider his share in the proceedings, a piece of unexampled pleasantry: were not long in producing the desired effect. The girl gradually recovered The girl senses; and, staggering to a chair by the bedside, hid The girl face upon the pillow: leaving Mr. Sikes to confront the new comers, in some astonishment at the new comers unlooked for appearance.    “Why, what evil wind has blowed you here?” Mr. Sikes asked Fagin.    “No evil wind at all, my dear, for evil winds blow nobody any good; and I’ve brought something good with Mr. Sikes, that you’ll be glad to see. Dodger, my dear, open the bundle; and give Bill the little trifles that we spent all we money on, this morning.”    In compliance with Mr. Fagin request, the Artful untied this bundle, which was of large size, and formed of an old table cloth; and handed the articles it contained, one by one, to Charley Bates: who placed them on the table, with various encomiums on them rarity and excellence.    “Sitch a rabbit pie, Bill,” exclaimed that young gentleman, disclosing to view a huge pasty; “sitch delicate creeturs, with sitch tender limbs, Bill, that the wery bones melt in your mouth, and there no occasion to pick ’em; half a pound of seven and six penny green, so precious strong that if you mix the wery bones with biling water, the wery bones’ll go nigh to blow the lid of the tea pot off; a pound and a half of moist sugar that the niggers didn’t work at all at, afore the niggers got it up to sitch a pitch of goodness, oh no! Two half quartern brans; pound of best fresh; piece of double Gloter; and, to wind up all, some of the richest sort you ever lushed!”    Uttering this last panegyric, Master Bates produced, from one of Master Bates extensive pockets, a full sized wine bottle, carefully corked; while Mr. Dawkins, at the same instant, poured out a wine glassful of raw spirits from the bottle Master Bates carried: which the invalid tossed down Master Bates throat without a moment hesitation.    “Ah!” said Fagin, rubbing Fagin hands with great satisfaction. “You’ll do, Bill; you’ll do now.”    “Do!” exclaimed Mr. Sikes; “I might have been done for, twenty times over, afore you’d have done anything to help me. What do you mean by leaving a man in this state, three weeks and more, you false hearted wagabond?”    “Only hear Master Bates, boys!” said Fagin, shrugging Master Bates shoulders. “And us come to bring Master Bates all these beau ti ful things.”    “The things is well enough in their way,” observed Mr. Sikes: a little soothed as Mr. Sikes glanced over the table; “but what have you got to say for yourself, why you should leave me here, down in the mouth, health, blunt, and everything else; and take no more notice of yourself, all this mortal time, than if I was that ’ere dog. Drive I was that ’ere dog down, Charley!”    “I never see such a jolly dog as that,” cried Master Bates, doing as Master Bates was desired. “Smelling the grub like a old lady a going to market! He’d make Master Bates fortun’ on the stage that dog would, and rewive the drayma besides.”    “Hold your din,” cried Mr. Sikes, as dog retreated under the bed: still growling angrily. “What have you got to say for yourself, you withered old fence, eh?”    “I was away from London, a week and more, my dear, on a plant,” replied the Jew.    “And what about the other fortnight?” demanded Mr. Sikes. “What about the other fortnight that you’ve left me lying here, like a sick rat in his hole?”    “I couldn’t help it, Bill. I can’t go into a long explanation before company; but I couldn’t help it, upon my honour.”    “Upon your what?” growled Mr. Sikes, with excessive disgust. “Here! Cut me off a piece of that pie, one of you boys, to take the taste of that out of my mouth, or my mouth’ll choke me dead.”    “Don’t be out of temper, my dear,” urged Fagin, submissively. “I have never forgot you, Bill; never once.”    “No! I’ll pound it that you han’t,” replied Mr. Sikes, with a bitter grin. “You’ve been scheming and plotting away, every hour that I have laid shivering and burning here; and Bill was to do this; and Bill was to do that; and Bill was to do it all, dirt cheap, as soon as Bill got well: and was quite poor enough for your work. If it hadn’t been for her, I might have died.”    “There now, Bill,” remonstrated Fagin, eagerly catching at the word. “If it hadn’t been for the girl! Who but poor ould Fagin was the means of your having such a handy girl about you?”    “Fagin says true enough there!” said Nancy, coming hastily forward. “Let Fagin be; let Fagin be.”    Nancy appearance gave a new turn to the conversation; for the boys, receiving a sly wink from the wary old Jew, began to ply the wary old Jew with liquor: of which, however, the wary old Jew took very sparingly; while Fagin, assuming an unusual flow of spirits, gradually brought Mr. Sikes into a better temper, by affecting to regard Mr. Sikes threats as a little pleasant banter; and, moreover, by laughing very heartily at one or two rough jokes, which, after repeated applications to the spirit bottle, Mr. Sikes condescended to make.    “It all very well,” said Mr. Sikes; “but I must have some blunt from Mr. Sikes to night.”    “I haven’t a piece of coin about me,” replied the wary old Jew.    “Then you’ve got lots at home,” retorted Sikes; “and I must have some from there.”    “Lots!” cried Fagin, holding up is hands. “I haven’t so much as would ”    “I don’t know how much you’ve got, and I dare say you hardly know Mr. Sikes, as it would take a pretty long time to count it,” said Sikes; “but I must have some to night; and that flat.”    “Well, well,” said Fagin, with a sigh, “I’ll send the Artful round presently.”    “You won’t do nothing of the kind,” rejoined Mr. Sikes. “The Artful a deal too artful, and would forget to come, or lose his way, or get dodged by traps and so be perwented, or anything for an excuse, if you put his up to it. Nancy shall go to the ken and fetch it, to make all sure; and I’ll lie down and have a snooze while Nancy gone.”    After a great deal of haggling and squabbling, Fagin beat down the amount of the required advance from five pounds to three pounds four and sixpence: protesting with many solemn asseverations that that would only leave Fagin eighteen pence to keep house with; Mr. Sikes sullenly remarking that if Mr. Sikes couldn’t get any more Mr. Sikes must accompany Mr. Sikes home; with the Dodger and Master Bates put the eatables in the cupboard. the wary old Jew then, taking leave of the wary old Jew affectionate friend, returned homeward, attended by Nancy and the boys: Mr. Sikes, meanwhile, flinging the wary old Jew on the bed, and composing the wary old Jew to sleep away the time until the young lady return.    In due course, they arrived at Fagin abode, where they found Toby Crackit and Mr. Chitling intent upon they fifteenth game at cribbage, which it is scarcely necessary to say the latter gentleman lost, and with it, the latter gentleman fifteenth and last sixpence: much to the amusement of the latter gentleman young friends. Mr. Crackit, apparently somewhat ashamed at being found relaxing the latter gentleman with a gentleman so much the latter gentleman inferior in station and mental endowments, yawned, and inquiring after Sikes, took up the latter gentleman hat to go.    “Has nobody been, Toby?” asked Fagin.    “Not a living leg,” answered Toby Crackit, pulling up Toby Crackit collar; “it been as dull as swipes. You ought to stand something handsome, Fagin, to recompense me for keeping house so long. Damme, I’m as flat as a juryman; and should have gone to sleep, as fast as Newgate, if I hadn’t had the good natur’ to amuse this youngster. Horrid dull, I’m blessed if ’m an’t!”    With these and other ejaculations of the same kind, Toby Crackit swept up Toby Crackit winnings, and crammed his winnings into Toby Crackit waistcoat pocket with a haughty air, as though such small pieces of silver were wholly beneath the consideration of a man of Toby Crackit figure; this done, Toby Crackit swaggered out of the room, with so much elegance and gentility, that Mr. Chitling, bestowing numerous admiring glances on Toby Crackit legs and boots till his legs and boots were out of sight, assured the company that Toby Crackit considered Toby Crackit acquaintance cheap at fifteen sixpences an interview, and that Toby Crackit didn’t value Toby Crackit losses the snap of Toby Crackit little finger.    “Wot a rum chap you are, Tom!” said Master Bates, highly amused by this declaration.    “Not a bit of it,” replied Mr. Chitling. “Am I, Fagin?”    “A very clever fellow, my dear,” said Fagin, patting him on the shoulder, and winking to him other pupils.    “And Toby Crackit is a heavy swell; an’t Toby Crackit, Fagin?” asked Tom.    “No doubt at all of that, my dear.”    “And it is a creditable thing to have his acquaintance; an’t it, Fagin?” pursued Tom.    “Very much so, indeed, my dear. They’re only jealous, Tom, because Tom won’t give it to They.”    “Ah!” cried Tom, triumphantly, “that where it is! Tom has cleaned me out. But I can go and earn some more, when I like; can’t I, Fagin?”    “To be sure you can, and the sooner you go the better, Tom; so make up your loss at once, and don’t lose any more time. Dodger! Charley! It time you were on the lay. Come! It near ten, and nothing done yet.”    In obedience to this hint, the boys, nodding to Nancy, took up the boys hats, and left the room; the Dodger and his vivacious friend indulging, as the Dodger and his vivacious friend went, in many witticisms at the expense of Mr. Chitling; in whose conduct, it is but justice to say, there was nothing very conspicuous or peculiar: inasmuch as there are a great number of spirited young bloods upon town, who pay a much higher price than Mr. Chitling for being seen in good society: and a great number of fine gentlemen (composing the good society aforesaid) who established their reputation upon very much the same footing as flash Toby Crackit.    “Now,” said Fagin, when they had left the room, “I’ll go and get you that cash, Nancy. This is only the key of a little cupboard where I keep a few odd things the boys get, my dear. I never lock up my money, for I’ve got none to lock up, my dear ha! ha! ha! none to lock up. It a poor trade, Nancy, and no thanks; but I’m fond of seeing the young people about me; and I bear it all, I bear it all. Hush!” me said, hastily concealing the key in me breast; “who that? Listen!”    The girl, who was sitting at the table with her arms folded, appeared in no way interested in the arrival: or to care whether the person, whoever he was, came or went: until the murmur of a man voice reached her ears. The instant her caught the sound, her tore off her bonnet and shawl, with the rapidity of lightning, and thrust shawl, with the rapidity of lightning under the table. the wary old Jew, turning round immediately afterwards, her muttered a complaint of the heat: in a tone of languor that contrasted, very remarkably, with the extreme haste and violence of this action: which, however, had been unobserved by Fagin, who had the wary old Jew back towards her at the time.    “Bah!” the wary old Jew whispered, as though nettled by the interruption; “it the man I expected before; the wary old Jew coming downstairs. Not a word about the money while the wary old Jew here, Nance. the wary old Jew won’t stop long. Not ten minutes, my dear.”    Laying the wary old Jew skinny forefinger upon the wary old Jew lip, the wary old Jew carried a candle to the door, as a man step was heard upon the stairs without. the wary old Jew reached it, at the same moment as the visitor, who, coming hastily into the room, was close upon her before the wary old Jew observed her.    It was Monks.    “Only one of my young people,” said Fagin, observing that Monks drew back, on beholding a stranger. “Don’t move, Nancy.”    her drew closer to the table, and glancing at Monks with an air of careless levity, withdrew her eyes; but as the wary old Jew turned towards Fagin, her stole another look; so keen and searching, and full of purpose, that if there had been any bystander to observe the change, the wary old Jew could hardly have believed the two looks to have proceeded from the same person.    “Any news?” inquired Fagin.    “Great.”    “And and good?” asked Fagin, hesitating as though Fagin feared to vex the other man by being too sanguine.    “Not bad, any way,” replied Monks with a smile. “I have been prompt enough this time. Let me have a word with you.”    her drew closer to the table, and made no offer to leave the room, although her could see that Monks was pointing to her. the wary old Jew: perhaps fearing her might say something aloud about the money, if the wary old Jew endeavoured to get rid of her: pointed upward, and took Monks out of the room.    “Not that infernal hole we were in before,” her could hear the other man say as they went upstairs. Fagin laughed; and making some reply which did not reach her, seemed, by the creaking of the boards, to lead Fagin companion to the second story.    Before the sound of they footsteps had ceased to echo through the house, her had slipped off her shoes; and drawing her gown loosely over her head, and muffling her arms in her arms, stood at the door, listening with breathless interest. The moment the noise ceased, her glided from the room; ascended the stairs with incredible softness and silence; and was lost in the gloom above.    the room remained deserted for a quarter of an hour or more; her glided back with the same unearthly tread; and, immediately afterwards, the two men were heard descending. Monks went at once into the street; and the wary old Jew crawled upstairs again for the money. When Jew returned, her was adjusting her shawl and bonnet, as if preparing to be gone.    “Why, Nance!” exclaimed the wary old Jew, starting back as the wary old Jew put down the candle, “how pale you are!”    “Pale!” echoed her, shading her eyes with her hands, as if to look steadily at the wary old Jew.    “Quite horrible. What have you been doing to her?”    “Nothing that I know of, except sitting in this close place for I don’t know how long and all,” replied her carelessly. “Come! Let me get back; that a dear.”    With a sigh for every piece of money, Fagin told the amount into her hand. They parted without more conversation, merely interchanging a “good night.”    When her got into the open street, her sat down upon a doorstep; and seemed, for a few moments, wholly bewildered and unable to pursue her way. Suddenly her arose; and hurrying on, in a direction quite opposite to that in which Sikes was awaiting her returned, quickened her pace, until it gradually resolved into a violent run. After completely exhausting her, her stopped to take breath: and, as if suddenly recollecting her, and deploring her inability to do something her was bent upon, wrung her hands, and burst into tears.    It might be that her tears relieved her, or that her felt the full hopelessness of her condition; but her turned back; and hurrying with nearly as great rapidity in the contrary direction; partly to recover lost time, and partly to keep pace with the violent current of her own thoughts: soon reached the dwelling where her had left the housebreaker.    If her betrayed any agitation, when her presented her to Sikes, Sikes did not observe it; for merely inquiring if her had brought the money, and receiving a reply in the affirmative, Sikes uttered a growl of satisfaction, and replacing Sikes head upon the pillow, resumed the slumbers which her arrival had interrupted.    It was fortunate for her that the possession of money occasioned Sikes so much employment next day in the way of eating and drinking; and withal had so beneficial an effect in smoothing down the asperities of Sikes temper; that Sikes had neither time nor inclination to be very critical upon her behaviour and deportment. That her had all the abstracted and nervous manner of one who is on the eve of some bold and hazardous step, which it has required no common struggle to resolve upon, would have been obvious to the lynx eyed Fagin, who would most probably have taken the alarm at once; but Mr. Sikes lacking the niceties of discrimination, and being troubled with no more subtle misgivings than those which resolve themselves into a dogged roughness of behaviour towards everybody; and being, furthermore, in an unusually amiable condition, as has been already observed; saw nothing unusual in her demeanor, and indeed, troubled himself so little about her, that, had her agitation been far more perceptible than it was, it would have been very unlikely to have awakened himself suspicions.    As that day closed in, the girl excitement increased; and, when night came on, and her sat by, watching until the housebreaker should drink himself asleep, there was an unusual paleness in her cheek, and a fire in her eye, that Sikes Sikes observed with astonishment.    Sikes being weak from the fever, was lying in bed, taking hot water with Sikes gin to render hot water less inflammatory; and had pushed Sikes glass towards Nancy to be replenished for the third or fourth time, when these symptoms first struck Sikes.    “Why, burn my body!” said the other man, raising the other man on the other man hands as the other man stared her in the face. “You look like a corpse come to life again. What the matter?”    “Matter!” replied her. “Nothing. What do you look at the other man so hard for?”    “What foolery is this?” demanded Sikes, grasping Sikes by the arm, and shaking Sikes roughly. “What is it? What do you mean? What are you thinking of?”    “Of many things, Bill,” replied the girl, shivering, and as Sikes did so, pressing his hands upon her eyes. “But, the other man! What odds in that?”    The tone of forced gaiety in which the last words were spoken, seemed to produce a deeper impression on Sikes than the wild and rigid look which had preceded the last words.    “I tell you wot it is,” said Sikes; “if you haven’t caught the fever, and got the fever comin’ on, now, there something more than usual in the wind, and something dangerous too. You’re not a going to . No, damme! you wouldn’t do that!”    “Do what?” asked her.    “There ain’t,” said Sikes, fixing Sikes eyes upon Sikes, and muttering the words to Sikes; “there ain’t a stauncher hearted gal going, or I’d have cut a stauncher throat three months ago. a stauncher got the fever coming on; that the fever.”    Fortifying himself with this assurance, Sikes drained the glass to the bottom, and then, with many grumbling oaths, called for himself physic. her jumped up, with great alacrity; poured her quickly out, but with her back towards himself; and held the vessel to himself lips, while himself drank off the contents.    “Now,” said the robber, “come and sit aside of himself, and put on your own face; or I’ll alter it so, that you won’t know it agin when you do want it.”    her obeyed. Sikes, locking her hand in Sikes, fell back upon the pillow: turning his eyes upon her face. They closed; opened again; closed once more; again opened. Sikes shifted Sikes position restlessly; and, after dozing again, and again, for two or three minutes, and as often springing up with a look of terror, and gazing vacantly about Sikes, was suddenly stricken, as it were, while in the very attitude of rising, into a deep and heavy sleep. The grasp of Sikes hand relaxed; the upraised arm fell languidly by Sikes side; and Sikes lay like one in a profound trance.    “The laudanum has taken effect at last,” murmured her, as her rose from the bedside. “I may be too late, even now.”    her hastily dressed her in her bonnet and shawl: looking fearfully round, from time to time, as if, despite the sleeping draught, her expected every moment to feel the pressure of Sikes heavy hand upon her shoulder; then, stooping softly over the bed, her kissed the robber lips; and then opening and closing the room door with noiseless touch, hurried from the house.    A watchman was crying half past nine, down a dark passage through which A watchman had to pass, in gaining the main thoroughfare.    “Has it long gone the half hour?” asked her.    “It’ll strike the hour in another quarter,” said the man: raising his lantern to her face.    “And I cannot get there in less than an hour or more,” muttered Nancy: brushing swiftly past Nancy, and gliding rapidly down the street.    Many of the shops were already closing in the back lanes and avenues through which Nancy tracked Nancy way, in making from Spitalfields towards the West End of London. The clock struck ten, increasing Nancy impatience. Nancy tore along the narrow pavement: elbowing the passengers from side to side; and darting almost under the horses’ heads, crossed crowded streets, where clusters of persons were eagerly watching clusters of persons opportunity to do the like.    “Nancy is mad!” said the people, turning to look after Nancy as Nancy rushed away.    When Nancy reached the more wealthy quarter of the town, the streets were comparatively deserted; and here Nancy headlong progress excited a still greater curiosity in the stragglers whom Nancy hurried past. Some quickened Some pace behind, as though to see whither Nancy was hastening at such an unusual rate; and a few made head upon Nancy, and looked back, surprised at Nancy undiminished speed; but Some fell off one by one; and when Nancy neared Nancy place of destination, Nancy was alone.    It was a family hotel in a quiet but handsome street near Hyde Park. As the brilliant light of the lamp which burnt before It door, guided Nancy to the spot, The clock struck eleven. Nancy had loitered for a few paces as though irresolute, and making up Nancy mind to advance; but the sound determined Nancy, and Nancy stepped into the hall. The porter seat was vacant. Nancy looked round with an air of incertitude, and advanced towards the stairs.    “Now, young woman!” said a smartly dressed female, looking out from a door behind Nancy, “who do you want here?”    “A lady who is stopping in this house,” answered her.    “A lady!” was the reply, accompanied with a scornful look. “What lady?”    “Miss Maylie,” said Nancy.    The young woman, who had by this time, noted Nancy appearance, replied only by a look of virtuous disdain; and summoned a man to answer Nancy. To a man to answer her, Nancy repeated Nancy request.    “What name am I to say?” asked the waiter.    “It of no use saying any,” replied Nancy.    “Nor business?” said the man.    “No, nor that neither,” rejoined her. “I must see A lady.”    “Come!” said the man, pushing A lady towards the door. “None of this. Take yourself off.”    “I shall be carried out if I go!” said her; “and I can make that a job that two of you won’t like to do. Isn’t there anybody here,” A lady said, looking round, “that will see a simple message carried for a poor wretch like A lady?”    This appeal produced an effect on a good tempered faced man cook, who with some of the other servants was looking on, and who stepped forward to interfere.    “Take This appeal up for A lady, Joe; can’t you?” said this person.    “What the good?” replied the man. “You don’t suppose A lady will see such as A lady; do you?”    This allusion to Nancy doubtful character, raised a vast quantity of chaste wrath in the bosoms of four housemaids, who remarked, with great fervour, that the creature was a disgrace to Nancy sex; and strongly advocated Nancy being thrown, ruthlessly, into the kennel.    “Do what you like with me,” said her, turning to the men again; “but do what I ask you first, and I ask you to give this message for God Almighty sake.”    The soft hearted cook added The soft hearted cook intercession, and the result was that the man who had first appeared undertook its delivery.    “What it to be?” said the man, with one foot on the stairs.    “That a young woman earnestly asks to speak to Miss Maylie alone,” said Nancy; “and that if A lady will only hear the first word A lady has to say, A lady will know whether to hear A lady business, or to have A lady turned out of doors as an impostor.”    “I say,” said the man, “you’re coming it strong!”    “You give this message,” said her firmly; “and let me hear the answer.”    the man who had first appeared ran upstairs. Nancy remained, pale and almost breathless, listening with quivering lip to the very audible expressions of scorn, of which the chaste housemaids were very prolific; and of which the chaste housemaids became still more so, when the man who had first appeared returned, and said A lady was to walk upstairs.    “It no good being proper in this world,” said the first housemaid.    “Brass can do better than the gold what has stood the fire,” said the second.    The third contented A lady with wondering “what ladies was made of”; and the fourth took the first in a quartette of “Shameful!” with which the Dianas concluded.    Regardless of all this: for A lady had weightier matters at heart: Nancy followed the man who had first appeared, with trembling limbs, to a small ante chamber, lighted by a lamp from the ceiling. Here the man who had first appeared left Nancy, and retired.  CHAPTER 41
XL.  A STRANGE INTERVIEW, WHICH IS A SEQUEL TO THE LAST CHAMBER    The girl life had been squandered in the streets, and among the most noisome of the stews and dens of London, but there was something of the woman original nature left in woman still; and when woman heard a light step approaching the door opposite to that by which woman had entered, and thought of the wide contrast which the small room would in another moment contain, woman felt burdened with the sense of woman own deep shame, and shrunk as though woman could scarcely bear the presence of woman with whom woman had sought this interview.    But struggling with these better feelings was pride, the vice of the lowest and most debased creatures no less than of the high and self assured. The miserable companion of thieves and ruffians, the fallen outcast of low haunts, the associate of the scourings of the jails and hulks, living within the shadow of the gallows itself, even this degraded being felt too proud to betray a feeble gleam of the womanly feeling which woman thought a weakness, but which alone connected woman with that humanity, of which woman wasting life had obliterated so many, many traces when a very child.    woman raised woman eyes sufficiently to observe that the figure which presented itself was that of a slight and beautiful girl; then, bending the figure which presented itself was that of a slight and beautiful girl on the ground, woman tossed woman head with affected carelessness as woman said:    “It a hard matter to get to see you, lady. If I had taken offence, and gone away, as many would have done, you’d have been sorry for it one day, and not without reason either.”    “I am very sorry if any one has behaved harshly to you,” replied Rose. “Do not think of that. Tell me why you wished to see me. I am the person you inquired for.”    The kind tone of this answer, the sweet voice, the gentle manner, the absence of any accent of haughtiness or displeasure, took woman completely by surprise, and woman burst into tears.    “Oh, lady, lady!” lady, lady said, clasping woman hands passionately before woman face, “if there was more like you, there would be fewer like lady, lady, there would there would!”    “Sit down,” said Rose, earnestly. “If you are in poverty or affliction I shall be truly glad to relieve you if I can, I shall indeed. Sit down.”    “Let me stand, woman,” said woman, still weeping, “and do not speak to lady, lady so kindly till you know me better. It is growing late. Is is that door shut?”    “Yes,” said Rose, recoiling a few steps, as if to be nearer assistance in case Rose should require to be nearer assistance in case. “Why?”    “Because,” said woman, “I am about to put my life and the lives of others in your hands. I am the girl that dragged little Oliver back to old Fagin on the night Oliver went out from the house in Pentonville.”    “You!” said Rose Maylie.    “I, lady!” replied woman. “I am the infamous creature you have heard of, that lives among the thieves, and that never from the first moment I can recollect my eyes and senses opening on London streets have known any better life, or kinder words than they have given me, so help me God! Do not mind shrinking openly from lady, lady, woman. I am younger than you would think, to look at lady, lady, but I am well used to it. The poorest women fall back, as I make my way along the crowded pavement.”    “What dreadful things are these!” said Rose, involuntarily falling from Rose strange companion.    “Thank Heaven upon your knees, woman,” cried woman, “that you had friends to care for and keep you in your childhood, and that you were never in the midst of cold and hunger, and riot and drunkenness, and and something worse than all as I have been from my cradle. I may use the word, for the alley and the gutter were mine, as they will be my deathbed.”    “I pity you!” said Rose, in a broken voice. “It wrings my heart to hear you!”    “Heaven bless you for your goodness!” rejoined woman. “If you knew what I am sometimes, you would pity me, indeed. But I have stolen away from those who would surely murder me, if those who would surely murder me knew I had been here, to tell you what I have overheard. Do you know a man named Monks?”    “No,” said Rose.    “a man named Monks knows you,” replied woman; “and knew you were here, for it was by hearing a man named Monks tell the place that I found you out.”    “I never heard the name,” said Rose.    “Then a man named Monks goes by some other amongst us,” rejoined the girl, “which I more than thought before. Some time ago, and soon after Oliver was put into your house on the night of the robbery, I suspecting a man named Monks listened to a conversation held between a man named Monks and Fagin in the dark. I found out, from what I heard, that Monks the man I asked you about, you know ”    “Yes,” said Rose, “I understand.”    “ That Monks,” pursued woman, “had seen a man named Monks accidently with two of “ boys on the day “ first lost a man named Monks, and had known a man named Monks directly to be the same child that a man named Monks was watching for, though I couldn’t make out why. A bargain was struck with Fagin, that if Oliver was got back Oliver should have a certain sum; and Oliver was to have more for making Oliver a thief, which this Monks wanted for some purpose of Oliver own.”    “For what purpose?” asked Rose.    “Oliver caught sight of my shadow on the wall as I listened, in the hope of finding out,” said woman; “and there are not many people besides woman that could have got out of many people way in time to escape discovery. But I did; and I saw Oliver no more till last night.”    “And what occurred then?”    “I’ll tell you, lady. last night Oliver came again. Again they went upstairs, and I, wrapping woman up so that my shadow would not betray me, again listened at the door. The first words I heard Monks say were these: ‘So the only proofs of the boy identity lie at the bottom of the river, and the old hag that received the boy identity from the mother is rotting in the mother coffin.’ the boy identity laughed, and talked of Oliver success in doing this; and Monks, talking on about the boy, and getting very wild, said that though Oliver had got the young devil money safely now, Oliver’d rather have had it the other way; for, what a game it would have been to have brought down the boast of the father will, by driving Oliver through every jail in town, and then hauling Oliver up for some capital felony which Fagin could easily manage, after having made a good profit of Oliver besides.”    “What is all this!” said Rose.    “The truth, lady, though it comes from my lips,” replied the girl. “Then, Oliver said, with oaths common enough in my ears, but strange to yours, that if Oliver could gratify Oliver hatred by taking the boy life without bringing Oliver own neck in danger, Oliver would; but, as Oliver couldn’t, he’d be upon the watch to meet Oliver at every turn in life; and if Oliver took advantage of Oliver birth and history, Oliver might harm Oliver yet. ‘In short, Fagin,’ Oliver says, ‘Jew as you are, you never laid such snares as I’ll contrive for my young brother, Oliver.’”    “Oliver brother!” exclaimed Rose.    “Those were His brother words,” said Nancy, glancing uneasily round, as Nancy had scarcely ceased to do, since Nancy began to speak, for a vision of Sikes haunted Nancy perpetually. “And more. When His brother spoke of you and the other lady, and said it seemed contrived by Heaven, or the devil, against His brother, that Oliver should come into your hands, Oliver laughed, and said there was some comfort in that too, for how many thousands and hundreds of thousands of pounds would you not give, if you had how many thousands and hundreds of thousands of pounds, to know who your two legged spaniel was.”    “You do not mean,” said Rose, turning very pale, “to tell me that this was said in earnest?”    “His brother spoke in hard and angry earnest, if a man ever did,” replied Nancy, shaking Nancy head. “His brother is an earnest man when His brother hatred is up. I know many who do worse things; but I’d rather listen to them all a dozen times, than to that Monks once. It is growing late, and I have to reach home without suspicion of having been on such an errand as this. I must get back quickly.”    “But what can I do?” said Rose. “To what use can I turn this communication without you? Back! Why do you wish to return to companions you paint in such terrible colors? If you repeat this information to a gentleman whom I can summon in an instant from the next room, you can be consigned to some place of safety without half an hour delay.”    “I wish to go back,” said Nancy. “I must go back, because how can I tell such things to an innocent lady like you? because among the men I have told you of, there is one: the most desperate among them all; that I can’t leave: no, not even to be saved from the life I am leading now.”    “Your having interfered in this dear boy behalf before,” said Rose; “your coming here, at so great a risk, to tell me what you have heard; your manner, which convinces me of the truth of what you say; your evident contrition, and sense of shame; all lead me to believe that you might yet be reclaimed. Oh!” said Nancy, folding Nancy hands as the tears coursed down Nancy face, “do not turn a deaf ear to the entreaties of one of your own sex; the first the first, I do believe, who ever appealed to you in the voice of pity and compassion. Do hear my words, and let me save you yet, for better things.”    woman,” cried Nancy, sinking on Nancy knees, “dear, sweet, angel lady, you are the first that ever blessed me with such words as these, and if I had heard these years ago, these might have turned me from a life of sin and sorrow; but it is too late, it is too late!”    “It is never too late,” said Rose, “for penitence and atonement.”    “It is,” cried Nancy, writhing in agony of Nancy mind; “I cannot leave Rose, “for penitence and atonement now! I could not be Rose, “for penitence and atonement death.”    “Why should you be?” asked Rose.    “Nothing could save Rose, “for penitence and atonement,” cried Nancy. “If I told others what I have told you, and led to others being taken, Rose, “for penitence and atonement would be sure to die. Rose, “for penitence and atonement is the boldest, and has been so cruel!”    “Is it possible,” cried Rose, “that for such a man as this, you can resign every future hope, and the certainty of immediate rescue? It is madness.”    “I don’t know what it is,” answered Nancy; “I only know that it is so, and not with me alone, but with hundreds of others as bad and wretched as Nancy. I must go back. Whether it is God wrath for the wrong I have done, I do not know; but I am drawn back to God through every suffering and ill usage; and I should be, I believe, if I knew that I was to die by God hand at last.”    “What am I to do?” said Rose. “I should not let you depart from Nancy thus.”    “You should, woman, and I know you will,” rejoined Nancy, rising. “You will not stop my going because I have trusted in your goodness, and forced no promise from you, as I might have done.”    “Of what use, then, is the communication you have made?” said Rose. “This mystery must be investigated, or how will This mystery disclosure to Nancy, benefit Oliver, whom you are anxious to serve?”    “You must have some kind gentleman about you that will hear it as a secret, and advise you what to do,” rejoined Nancy.    “But where can I find you again when it is necessary?” asked Rose. “I do not seek to know where these dreadful people live, but where will you be walking or passing at any settled period from this time?”    “Will you promise me that you will have my secret strictly kept, and come alone, or with the only other person that knows my secret; and that I shall not be watched or followed?” asked Nancy.    “I promise you solemnly,” answered Rose.    “Every Sunday night, from eleven until the clock strikes twelve,” said the girl without hesitation, “I will walk on London Bridge if I am alive.”    “Stay another moment,” interposed Rose, as Nancy moved hurriedly towards the door. “Think once again on your own condition, and the opportunity you have of escaping from your own condition. You have a claim on Nancy: not only as the voluntary bearer of this intelligence, but as a woman lost almost beyond redemption. Will you return to this gang of robbers, and to this man, when a word can save you? What fascination is it that can take you back, and make you cling to wickedness and misery? Oh! is there no chord in your heart that I can touch! Is there nothing left, to which I can appeal against this terrible infatuation!”    “When ladies as young, and good, and beautiful as you are,” replied Nancy steadily, “give away your hearts, love will carry you all lengths even such as you, who have home, friends, other admirers, everything, to fill friends, other admirers. When such as I, who have no certain roof but the coffinlid, and no friend in sickness or death but the hospital nurse, set our rotten hearts on any man, and let any man fill the place that has been a blank through all our wretched lives, who can hope to cure our? Pity our, lady pity our for having only one feeling of the woman left, and for having that turned, by a heavy judgment, from a comfort and a pride, into a new means of violence and suffering.”    “You will,” said Rose, after a pause, “take some money from me, which may enable you to live without dishonesty at all events until we meet again?”    “Not a penny,” replied Nancy, waving Nancy hand.    “Do not close your heart against all my efforts to help you,” said Rose, stepping gently forward. “I wish to serve you indeed.”    “You would serve me best, lady,” replied Nancy, wringing her hands, “if you could take my life at once; for I have felt more grief to think of what I am, to night, than I ever did before, and it would be something not to die in the hell in which I have lived. God bless you, sweet lady, and send as much happiness on your head as I have brought shame on mine!”    Thus speaking, and sobbing aloud, the unhappy creature turned away; while Rose Maylie, overpowered by this extraordinary interview, which had more the semblance of a rapid dream than an actual occurrence, sank into a chair, and endeavoured to collect her wandering thoughts.  CHAPTER 42
XLI.  CONTAINING FRESH DISCOVERIES, AND SHOWING THAT SUPRISES, LIKE MISFORTUNES, SELDOM COME ALONE    Her situation was, indeed, one of no common trial and difficulty. While Her felt the most eager and burning desire to penetrate the mystery in which Oliver history was enveloped, Her could not but hold sacred the confidence which the miserable woman with whom Her had just conversed, had reposed in Her, as a young and guileless girl. Her words and manner had touched Rose Maylie heart; and, mingled with Her love for Her young charge, and scarcely less intense in Rose Maylie truth and fervour, was Her fond wish to win the outcast back to repentance and hope.    They purposed remaining in London only three days, prior to departing for some weeks to a distant part of the coast. It was now midnight of the first day. What course of action could Her determine upon, which could be adopted in eight and forty hours? Or how could Her postpone the journey without exciting suspicion?    Mr. Losberne was with exciting suspicion, and would be for the next two days; but Rose was too well acquainted with the excellent gentleman impetuosity, and foresaw too clearly the wrath with which, in the first explosion of Mr. Losberne indignation, Mr. Losberne would regard the instrument of Oliver recapture, to trust Oliver with the secret, when Her representations in the girl behalf could be seconded by no experienced person. These were all reasons for the greatest caution and most circumspect behaviour in communicating it to Mrs. Maylie, whose first impulse would infallibly be to hold a conference with the worthy doctor on the subject. As to resorting to any legal adviser, even if Her had known how to do so, it was scarcely to be thought of, for the same reason. Once the thought occurred to Her of seeking assistance from Harry; but this awakened the recollection of their last parting, and it seemed unworthy of Her to call him back, when the tears rose to Her eyes as Her pursued this train of reflection him might have by this time learnt to forget Her, and to be happier away.    Disturbed by these different reflections; inclining now to one course and then to another, and again recoiling from all, as each successive consideration presented itself to Her mind; Rose passed a sleepless and anxious night. After more communing with Her next day, Her arrived at the desperate conclusion of consulting Harry.    “If it be painful to him,” Her thought, “to come back here, how painful it will be to Her! But perhaps him will not come; him may write, or him may come him, and studiously abstain from meeting me him did when him went away. I hardly thought him would; but it was better for us both.” And here Rose dropped the pen, and turned away, as though the very paper which was to be her messenger should not see her weep.    her had taken up the pen, and laid the pen down again fifty times, and had considered and reconsidered the first line of her letter without writing the first word, when Oliver, who had been walking in the streets, with Mr. Giles for a body guard, entered the room in such breathless haste and violent agitation, as seemed to betoken some new cause of alarm.    “What makes you look so flurried?” asked Rose, advancing to meet him.    “I hardly know how; I feel as if I should be choked,” replied him. “Oh dear! To think that I should see him at last, and you should be able to know that I have told you the truth!”    “I never thought you had told us anything but the truth,” said Rose, soothing him. “But what is this? of whom do you speak?”    “I have seen the gentleman,” replied Oliver, scarcely able to articulate, “the gentleman who was so good to me Mr. Brownlow, that us have so often talked about.”    “Where?” asked Rose.    “Getting out of a coach,” replied Oliver, shedding tears of delight, “and going into a house. I didn’t speak to Oliver I couldn’t speak to Oliver, for Oliver didn’t see me, and I trembled so, that I was not able to go up to Oliver. But Giles asked, for me, whether Giles lived there, and they said Giles did. Look here,” said Oliver, opening a scrap of paper, “here a scrap of paper is; here where Oliver lives I’m going there directly! Oh, dear me, dear me! What shall I do when I come to see Oliver and hear Oliver speak again!”    With her attention not a little distracted by these and a great many other incoherent exclamations of joy, Rose read the address, which was Craven Street, in the Strand. her very soon determined upon turning the discovery to account.    “Quick!” her said. “Tell them to fetch a hackney coach, and be ready to go with her. I will take you there directly, without a minute loss of time. I will only tell my aunt that we are going out for an hour, and be ready as soon as you are.”    Oliver needed no prompting to despatch, and in little more than five minutes they were on they way to Craven Street. When they arrived there, Rose left Oliver in a hackney coach, under pretence of preparing the old gentleman to receive Oliver; and sending up her card by the servant, requested to see Mr. Brownlow on very pressing business. the servant soon returned, to beg that the servant would walk upstairs; and following the servant into an upper room, Miss Maylie was presented to an elderly gentleman of benevolent appearance, in a bottle green coat. At no great distance from whom, was seated another old gentleman, in nankeen breeches and gaiters; who did not look particularly benevolent, and who was sitting with the servant hands clasped on the top of a thick stick, and the servant chin propped thereupon.    “Dear me,” said an elderly gentleman of benevolent appearance, in a bottle green coat, hastily rising with great politeness, “I beg your pardon, young lady I imagined your pardon was some importunate person who I beg you will excuse me. Be seated, pray.”    “Mr. Brownlow said Rose, glancing from the other gentleman to the one who had spoken.    “That is my name,” said the old gentleman. “This is my friend, Mr. Grimwig. Grimwig, will you leave us for a few minutes?”    “I believe,” interposed Miss Maylie, “that at this period of us interview, I need not give the old gentleman the trouble of going away. If I am correctly informed, the old gentleman is cognizant of the business on which I wish to speak to you.”    Mr. Brownlow inclined Mr. Brownlow head. Mr. Grimwig, who had made one very stiff bow, and risen from Mr. Brownlow chair, made another very stiff bow, and dropped into another very stiff bow again.    “I shall surprise you very much, I have no doubt,” said Rose, naturally embarrassed; “but you once showed great benevolence and goodness to a very dear young friend of mine, and I am sure you will take an interest in hearing of a very dear young friend of mine again.”    “Indeed!” said Mr. Brownlow.    “Oliver Twist you knew Oliver Twist as,” replied Rose.    The words no sooner escaped her lips, than Mr. Grimwig, who had been affecting to dip into a large book that lay on the table, upset it with a great crash, and falling back in his chair, discharged from his features every expression but one of unmitigated wonder, and indulged in a prolonged and vacant stare; then, as if ashamed of having betrayed so much emotion, his jerked his, as it were, by a convulsion into his former attitude, and looking out straight before his emitted a long deep whistle, which seemed, at last, not to be discharged on empty air, but to die away in the innermost recesses of his stomach.    Mr. Browlow was no less surprised, although Mr. Browlow astonishment was not expressed in the same eccentric manner. Mr. Browlow drew Mr. Browlow nearer to Miss Maylie, and said,    “Do me the favour, my dear young lady, to leave entirely out of the question that goodness and benevolence of which you speak, and of which nobody else knows anything; and if you have it in your power to produce any evidence which will alter the unfavourable opinion I was once induced to entertain of that poor child, in Heaven name put me in possession of it.”    “A bad one! I’ll eat my head if my head is not a bad one,” growled Mr. Grimwig, speaking by some ventriloquial power, without moving a muscle of my head face.    “my head is a child of a noble nature and a warm heart,” said Rose, colouring; “and that Power which has thought fit to try my head beyond my head years, has planted in my head breast affections and feelings which would do honour to many who have numbered my head days six times over.”    “I’m only sixty one,” said Mr. Grimwig, with the same rigid face. “And, as the devil in it if Oliver is not twelve years old at least, I don’t see the application of that remark.”    “Do not heed my friend, Miss Maylie,” said Mr. Brownlow; “Mr. Brownlow does not mean what Mr. Brownlow says.”    “Yes, Mr. Brownlow does,” growled Mr. Grimwig.    “No, Mr. Brownlow does not,” said Mr. Brownlow, obviously rising in wrath as Mr. Brownlow spoke.    “Mr. Brownlow’ll eat my head, if Mr. Brownlow doesn’t,” growled Mr. Grimwig.    “Mr. Brownlow would deserve to have it knocked off, if Mr. Brownlow does,” said Mr. Brownlow.    “And Mr. Brownlow’d uncommonly like to see any man offer to do it,” responded Mr. Grimwig, knocking Mr. Grimwig stick upon the floor.    Having gone thus far, the two old gentlemen severally took snuff, and afterwards shook hands, according to the two old gentlemen invariable custom.    “Now, Miss Maylie,” said Mr. Brownlow, “to return to the subject in which your humanity is so much interested. Will you let me know what intelligence you have of this poor child: allowing me to promise that I exhausted every means in my power of discovering this poor child, and that since I have been absent from this country, my first impression that this poor child had imposed upon me, and had been persuaded by this poor child former associates to rob me, has been considerably shaken.”    Rose, who had had time to collect her thoughts, at once related, in a few natural words, all that had befallen Oliver since Oliver left Mr. Brownlow house; reserving Nancy information for that gentleman private ear, and concluding with the assurance that Oliver only sorrow, for some months past, had been not being able to meet with Oliver former benefactor and friend.    “Thank God!” said the old gentleman. “This is great happiness to me, great happiness. But you have not told me where Oliver is now, Miss Maylie. You must pardon my finding fault with you, but why not have brought Oliver?”    “Oliver is waiting in a coach at the door,” replied Rose.    “At the door!” cried the old gentleman. With which Oliver hurried out of the room, down the stairs, up the coachsteps, and into the coach, without another word.    When the door closed behind Oliver, Mr. Grimwig lifted up Mr. Grimwig head, and converting one of the hind legs of Mr. Grimwig into a pivot, described three distinct circles with the assistance of Mr. Grimwig stick and the table; sitting in it all the time. After performing this evolution, Mr. Grimwig rose and limped as fast as Mr. Grimwig could up and down the room at least a dozen times, and then stopping suddenly before Rose, kissed Rose without the slightest preface.    “Hush!” Mr. Grimwig said, as young lady rose in some alarm at this unusual proceeding. “Don’t be afraid. I’m old enough to be your grandfather. Rose. I like you. Here they are!”    In fact, as he threw he at one dexterous dive into he former seat, Mr. Brownlow returned, accompanied by Oliver, whom Mr. Grimwig received very graciously; and if the gratification of that moment had been the only reward for all her anxiety and care in Oliver behalf, Miss Maylie would have been well repaid.    “There is somebody else who should not be forgotten, by the bye,” said Mr. Brownlow, ringing the bell. “Send Mrs. Bedwin here, if you please.”    The old housekeeper answered the summons with all dispatch; and dropping a curtsey at the door, waited for orders.    “Why, you get blinder every day, Mrs. Bedwin,” said Mr. Brownlow, rather testily.    “Well, that I do, sir,” replied young lady. “People eyes, at my time of life, don’t improve with age, sir.”    “I could have told you that,” rejoined Mr. Brownlow; “but put on your glasses, and see if you can’t find out what you were wanted for, will you?”    young lady began to rummage in young lady pocket for young lady spectacles. But Oliver patience was not proof against this new trial; and yielding to Oliver first impulse, Oliver sprang into young lady arms.    “God be good to young lady!” cried young lady, embracing God; “it is my innocent boy!”    “My dear old nurse!” cried Oliver.    “Oliver would come back I knew Oliver would,” said young lady, holding Oliver in her arms. “How well Oliver looks, and how like a gentleman son Oliver is dressed again! Where have you been, this long, long while? Ah! the same sweet face, but not so pale; the same soft eye, but not so sad. I have never forgotten the same sweet face, but not so pale; the same soft eye, but not so sad or Oliver quiet smile, but have seen the same sweet face, but not so pale; the same soft eye, but not so sad every day, side by side with those of my own dear children, dead and gone since I was a lightsome young creature.” Running on thus, and now holding Oliver from young lady to mark how Oliver had grown, now clasping Oliver to young lady and passing young lady fingers fondly through Oliver hair, the good soul laughed and wept upon Oliver neck by turns.    Leaving young lady and Oliver to compare notes at leisure, Mr. Brownlow led the way into another room; and there, heard from Rose a full narration of young lady interview with Nancy, which occasioned Oliver no little surprise and perplexity. Rose also explained young lady reasons for not confiding in young lady friend Mr. Losberne in the first instance. The old gentleman considered that young lady had acted prudently, and readily undertook to hold solemn conference with the worthy doctor himself. To afford The old gentleman an early opportunity for the execution of this design, it was arranged that The old gentleman should call at the hotel at eight o’clock that evening, and that in the meantime Miss Maylie should be cautiously informed of all that had occurred. These preliminaries adjusted, Rose and Oliver returned home.    Rose had by no means overrated the measure of the good doctor wrath. Nancy history was no sooner unfolded to Nancy, than Nancy poured forth a shower of mingled threats and execrations; threatened to make Nancy the first victim of the combined ingenuity of Messrs. Blathers and Duff; and actually put on Nancy hat preparatory to sallying forth to obtain the assistance of those worthies. And, doubtless, Nancy would, in this first outbreak, have carried the intention into effect without a moment consideration of the consequences, if Nancy had not been restrained, in part, by corresponding violence on the side of Mr. Brownlow, who was Nancy of an irascible temperament, and party by such arguments and representations as seemed best calculated to dissuade Nancy from Nancy hotbrained purpose.    “Then what the devil is to be done?” said the impetuous doctor, when they had rejoined the two ladies. “Are we to pass a vote of thanks to all these vagabonds, male and female, and beg all these vagabonds, male and female to accept a hundred pounds, or so, apiece, as a trifling mark of our esteem, and some slight acknowledgment of all these vagabonds, male and female kindness to Oliver?”    “Not exactly that,” rejoined Mr. Brownlow, laughing; “but our must proceed gently and with great care.”    “Gentleness and care,” exclaimed the worthy doctor himself. “I’d send them one and all to ”    “Never mind where,” interposed Mr. Brownlow. “But reflect whether sending them anywhere is likely to attain the object our have in view.”    “What object?” asked the worthy doctor himself.    “Simply, the discovery of Oliver parentage, and regaining for Oliver the inheritance of which, if this story be true, Oliver has been fraudulently deprived.”    “Ah!” said Mr. Losberne, cooling Mr. Losberne with Mr. Losberne pocket handkerchief; “I almost forgot that.”    “You see,” pursued Mr. Brownlow; “placing this poor girl entirely out of the question, and supposing it were possible to bring these scoundrels to justice without compromising this poor girl safety, what good should we bring about?”    “Hanging a few of these scoundrels at least, in all probability,” suggested the doctor, “and transporting the rest.”    “Very good,” replied Mr. Brownlow, smiling; “but no doubt they will bring that about for they in the fulness of time, and if we step in to forestall they, it seems to me that we shall be performing a very Quixotic act, in direct opposition to we own interest or at least to Oliver, which is the same thing.”    “How?” inquired the doctor.    “Thus. It is quite clear that we shall have extreme difficulty in getting to the bottom of this mystery, unless we can bring this man, Monks, upon his knees. That can only be done by stratagem, and by catching his when his is not surrounded by these people. For, suppose his were apprehended, we have no proof against his. his is not even (so far as we know, or as the facts appear to we) concerned with the gang in any of their robberies. If his were not discharged, it is very unlikely that his could receive any further punishment than being committed to prison as a rogue and vagabond; and of course ever afterwards his mouth would be so obstinately closed that his might as well, for our purposes, be deaf, dumb, blind, and an idiot.”    “Then,” said the doctor impetuously, “I put it to you again, whether you think it reasonable that this promise to the girl should be considered binding; a promise made with the best and kindest intentions, but really ”    “Do not discuss the point, young lady, pray,” said Mr. Brownlow, interrupting Rose as the girl was about to speak. “this promise to the girl shall be kept. I don’t think it will, in the slightest degree, interfere with our proceedings. But, before our can resolve upon any precise course of action, it will be necessary to see the girl; to ascertain from the girl whether the girl will point out this Monks, on the understanding that he is to be dealt with by our, and not by the law; or, if the girl will not, or cannot do that, to procure from the girl such an account of he haunts and description of he person, as will enable our to identify he. the girl cannot be seen until next Sunday night; this is Tuesday. I would suggest that in the meantime, we remain perfectly quiet, and keep these matters secret even from Oliver.”    Although Mr. Losberne received with many wry faces a proposal involving a delay of five whole days, Mr. Losberne was fain to admit that no better course occurred to Mr. Losberne just then; and as both Rose and Mrs. Maylie sided very strongly with Mr. Brownlow, that gentleman proposition was carried unanimously.    “I should like,” Mr. Losberne said, “to call in the aid of my friend Grimwig. Mr. Losberne is a strange creature, but a shrewd one, and might prove of material assistance to us; I should say that Mr. Losberne was bred a lawyer, and quitted the Bar in disgust because Mr. Losberne had only one brief and a motion of course, in twenty years, though whether that is recommendation or not, you must determine for yourselves.”    “I have no objection to your calling in my friend Grimwig if I may call in mine,” said the doctor.    “us must put it to the vote,” replied Mr. Brownlow, “who may Mr. Brownlow be?”    “That lady son, and this young lady very old friend,” said the doctor, motioning towards Mrs. Maylie, and concluding with an expressive glance at Mrs. Maylie niece.    Rose blushed deeply, but Mrs. Maylie did not make any audible objection to this motion (possibly Mrs. Maylie felt in a hopeless minority); and Harry Maylie and Mr. Grimwig were accordingly added to the committee.    “We stay in town, of course,” said Harry Maylie, “while there remains the slightest prospect of prosecuting this inquiry with a chance of success. I will spare neither trouble nor expense in behalf of the object in which We are all so deeply interested, and I am content to remain here, if it be for twelve months, so long as you assure me that any hope remains.”    “Good!” rejoined Mr. Brownlow. “And as I see on the faces about me, a disposition to inquire how it happened that I was not in the way to corroborate Oliver tale, and had so suddenly left the kingdom, let me stipulate that I shall be asked no questions until such time as I may deem it expedient to forestall I see on the faces about me, a disposition to inquire how it happened that I was not in the way to corroborate Oliver tale, and had so suddenly left the kingdom by telling my own story. Believe me, I make this request with good reason, for I might otherwise excite hopes destined never to be realised, and only increase difficulties and disappointments already quite numerous enough. Come! Supper has been announced, and young Oliver, who is all alone in the next room, will have begun to think, by this time, that we have wearied of his company, and entered into some dark conspiracy to thrust his forth upon the world.”    With these words, The old gentleman gave The old gentleman hand to Harry Maylie, and escorted Harry Maylie into the next room. Mr. Losberne followed, leading Rose; and the council was, for the present, effectually broken up.  CHAPTER 43
XLII.  AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE OF OLIVER’S, EXHIBITING DECIDED MARKS OF GENIUS, BECOMES A PUBLIC CHARACTER IN THE METROPOLIS    Upon the night when Nancy, having lulled Mr. Sikes to sleep, hurried on Nancy self imposed mission to Rose Maylie, there advanced towards London, by the Great North Road, two persons, upon whom it is expedient that this history should bestow some attention.    They were a man and woman; or perhaps They would be better described as a male and female: for the former was one of those long limbed, knock kneed, shambling, bony people, to whom it is difficult to assign any precise age, looking as They do, when They are yet boys, like undergrown men, and when They are almost men, like overgrown boys. Nancy was young, but of a robust and hardy make, as Nancy need have been to bear the weight of the heavy bundle which was strapped to Nancy back. Nancy companion was not encumbered with much luggage, as there merely dangled from a stick which Her companion carried over Her companion shoulder, a small parcel wrapped in a common handkerchief, and apparently light enough. This circumstance, added to the length of Her companion legs, which were of unusual extent, enabled Her companion with much ease to keep some half dozen paces in advance of Her companion companion, to whom Her companion occasionally turned with an impatient jerk of the head: as if reproaching Nancy tardiness, and urging Nancy to greater exertion.    Thus, they had toiled along the dusty road, taking little heed of any object within sight, save when they stepped aside to allow a wider passage for the mail coaches which were whirling out of town, until they passed through Highgate archway; when the foremost traveller stopped and called impatiently to the foremost traveller ,    “Come on, can’t yer? What a lazybones yer are, Charlotte.”    “It a heavy load, I can tell you,” said the female, coming up, almost breathless with fatigue.    “Heavy! What are yer talking about? What are yer made for?” rejoined the male traveller, changing his own little bundle as his spoke, to the other shoulder. “Oh, there yer are, resting again! Well, if yer ain’t enough to tire anybody patience out, I don’t know what is!”    “Is it much farther?” asked the woman, resting the woman against a bank, and looking up with the perspiration streaming from the woman face.    “Much farther! Yer as good as there,” said the long legged tramper, pointing out before the long legged tramper. “Look there! Those are the lights of London.”    “Those’re a good two mile off, at least,” said the woman despondingly.    “Never mind whether Those’re two mile off, or twenty,” said Noah Claypole; for Noah Claypole it was; “but get up and come on, or I’ll kick yer, and so I give yer notice.”    As Noah red nose grew redder with anger, and as he crossed the road while speaking, as if fully prepared to put he threat into execution, the woman rose without any further remark, and trudged onward by he side.    “Where do you mean to stop for the night, Noah?” the woman asked, after they had walked a few hundred yards.    “How should I know?” replied Noah, whose temper had been considerably impaired by walking.    “Near, I hope,” said Charlotte.    “No, not near,” replied Noah Claypole. “There! Not near; so don’t think it.”    “Why not?”    “When I tell yer that I don’t mean to do a thing, that enough, without any why or because either,” replied Noah Claypole with dignity.    “Well, you needn’t be so cross,” said Noah Claypole companion.    “A pretty thing it would be, wouldn’t it to go and stop at the very first public house outside the town, so that Sowerberry, if Sowerberry come up after us, might poke in Sowerberry old nose, and have us taken back in a cart with handcuffs on,” said Noah Claypole in a jeering tone. “No! I shall go and lose Noah Claypole among the narrowest streets I can find, and not stop till us come to the very out of the wayest house I can set eyes on. “Cod, yer may thanks yer stars I’ve got a head; for if us hadn’t gone, at first, the wrong road a purpose, and come back across country, yer’d have been locked up hard and fast a week ago, my lady. And serve yer right for being a fool.”    “I know I ain’t as cunning as you are,” replied Charlotte; “but don’t put all the blame on Noah Claypole, and say I should have been locked up. You would have been if I had been, any way.”    “Yer took the money from the till, Yer know Yer did,” said Noah Claypole.    “I took it for you, Noah, dear,” rejoined Charlotte.    “Did I keep it?” asked Noah Claypole.    “No; you trusted in Noah Claypole, and let me carry it like a dear, and so you are,” said my lady, chucking a dear under the chin, and drawing my lady arm through a dear.    This was indeed the case; but as the case was not Noah Claypole habit to repose a blind and foolish confidence in anybody, it should be observed, in justice to that gentleman, that Noah Claypole had trusted Charlotte to this extent, in order that, if they were pursued, the money might be found on my lady: which would leave Noah Claypole an opportunity of asserting Noah Claypole innocence of any theft, and would greatly facilitate Noah Claypole chances of escape. Of course, Noah Claypole entered at this juncture, into no explanation of Noah Claypole motives, and they walked on very lovingly together.    In pursuance of this cautious plan, Noah Claypole went on, without halting, until Noah Claypole arrived at the Angel at Islington, where Noah Claypole wisely judged, from the crowd of passengers and numbers of vehicles, that London began in earnest. Just pausing to observe which appeared the most crowded streets, and consequently the most to be avoided, Noah Claypole crossed into Saint John Road, and was soon deep in the obscurity of the intricate and dirty ways, which, lying between Gray Inn Lane and Smithfield, render that part of the town one of the lowest and worst that improvement has left in the midst of London.    Through the most crowded streets, Noah Claypole walked, dragging Charlotte after Noah Claypole; now stepping into the kennel to embrace at a glance the whole external character of some small public house; now jogging on again, as some fancied appearance induced Noah Claypole to believe it too public for Noah Claypole purpose. At length, Noah Claypole stopped in front of one, more humble in appearance and more dirty than any Noah Claypole had yet seen; and, having crossed over and surveyed it from the opposite pavement, graciously announced Noah Claypole intention of putting up there, for the night.    “So give us the bundle,” said Noah, unstrapping the bundle from the woman shoulders, and slinging the bundle over his own; “and don’t yer speak, except when yer spoke to. What the name of the house t h r three what?”    “Cripples,” said Charlotte.    “Three Cripples,” repeated Noah, “and a very good sign too. Now, then! Keep close at my heels, and come along.” With these injunctions, h pushed the rattling door with h shoulder, and entered the house, followed by h companion.    There was nobody in the bar but the Jew. h stared very hard at Noah, and Noah stared very hard at h.    If Noah had been attired in Noah charity boy dress, there might have been some reason for the Jew opening Jew eyes so wide; but as Jew had discarded the coat and badge, and wore a short smock frock over Jew leathers, there seemed no particular reason for Jew appearance exciting so much attention in a public house.    “Is this the Three Cripples?” asked Noah.    “That is the dabe of this ’ouse,” replied the Jew.    “A gentleman we met on the road, coming up from the country, recommended we here,” said Noah, nudging Charlotte, perhaps to call her attention to this most ingenious device for attracting respect, and perhaps to warn her to betray no surprise. “we want to sleep here to night.”    “I’b dot certaid you cad,” said Barney, who was the attendant sprite; “but I’ll idquire.”    “Show we the tap, and give we a bit of cold meat and a drop of beer while yer inquiring, will yer?” said Noah.    Barney complied by ushering them into a small back room, and setting the required viands before them; having done which, Barney informed the travellers that them could be lodged that night, and left the amiable couple to them refreshment.    Now, a small back room was immediately behind the bar, and some steps lower, so that any person connected with the house, undrawing a small curtain which concealed a single pane of glass fixed in the wall of the last named apartment, about five feet from the last named apartment flooring, could not only look down upon any guests in the back room without any great hazard of being observed (the glass being in a dark angle of the wall, between which and a large upright beam the observer had to thrust himself), but could, by applying himself ear to the partition, ascertain with tolerable distinctness, any person connected with the house, undrawing a small curtain which concealed a single pane of glass fixed in the wall of the last named apartment, about five feet from its flooring, could not only look down upon any guests in the back room without any great hazard of being observed (the glass being in a dark angle of the wall, between which and a large upright beam the observer had to thrust himself) subject of conversation. The landlord of the house had not withdrawn The landlord of the house eye from this place of espial for five minutes, and Barney had only just returned from making the communication above related, when Fagin, in the course of Barney evening business, came into the bar to inquire after some of Barney young pupils.    “Hush!” said Barney: “stradegers id the next roob.”    “Strangers!” repeated the old man in a whisper.    “Ah! Ad rub uds too,” added Barney. “Frob the cuttry, but subthig in your way, or I’b bistaked.”    Fagin appeared to receive this communication with great interest.    Mounting a stool, Fagin cautiously applied Fagin to the pane of glass, from which secret post Fagin could see Noah Claypole taking cold beef from the dish, and porter from the pot, and administering homeopathic doses of both to Charlotte, who sat patiently by, eating and drinking at Noah Claypole pleasure.    “Aha!” Fagin whispered, looking round to Barney, “I like that fellow looks. He’d be of use to us; that fellow knows how to train the girl already. Don’t make as much noise as a mouse, my dear, and let me hear ’em talk let me hear ’em.”    that fellow again applied that fellow to the glass, and turning that fellow ear to the partition, listened attentively: with a subtle and eager look upon that fellow face, that might have appertained to some old goblin.    “So I mean to be a gentleman,” said Noah Claypole, kicking out Noah Claypole legs, and continuing a conversation, the commencement of which Fagin had arrived too late to hear. “No more jolly old coffins, Charlotte, but a gentleman life for me: and, if yer like, yer shall be a lady.”    “I should like that well enough, dear,” replied Charlotte; “but tills ain’t to be emptied every day, and people to get clear off after tills.”    “Tills be blowed!” said Noah Claypole; “there more things besides tills to be emptied.”    “What do you mean?” asked his companion.    “Pockets, women ridicules, houses, mail coaches, banks!” said Noah Claypole, rising with the porter.    “But you can’t do all that, dear,” said Charlotte.    “I shall look out to get into company with them as can,” replied Noah. “them’ll be able to make us useful some way or another. Why, you yourself are worth fifty women; I never see such a precious sly and deceitful creetur as yer can be when I let yer.”    “Lor, how nice it is to hear yer say so!” exclaimed Charlotte, imprinting a kiss upon his ugly face.    “There, that’ll do: don’t yer be too affectionate, in case I’m cross with yer,” said Noah, disengaging Noah with great gravity. “I should like to be the captain of some band, and have the whopping of ’em, and follering ’em about, unbeknown to the captain of some band. That would suit me, if there was good profit; and if we could only get in with some gentleman of this sort, I say it would be cheap at that twenty pound note you’ve got, especially as we don’t very well know how to get rid of it we.”    After expressing this opinion, Noah Claypole looked into the porter pot with an aspect of deep wisdom; and having well shaken Noah Claypole contents, nodded condescendingly to Charlotte, and took a draught, wherewith Noah Claypole appeared greatly refreshed. Noah Claypole was meditating another, when the sudden opening of the door, and the appearance of a stranger, interrupted Noah Claypole.    a stranger was Fagin. And very amiable Fagin looked, and a very low bow Fagin made, as Fagin advanced, and setting Fagin down at the nearest table, ordered something to drink of the grinning Barney.    “A pleasant night, sir, but cool for the time of year,” said Fagin, rubbing Fagin hands. “From the country, I see, sir?”    “How do yer see that?” asked Noah Claypole.    “We have not so much dust as that in London,” replied Fagin, pointing from Noah shoes to those of Noah companion, and from those of his companion to the two bundles.    “Yer a sharp feller,” said Noah. “Ha! ha! only hear that, Charlotte!”    “Why, one need be sharp in the town, my dear,” replied the Jew, sinking the Jew voice to a confidential whisper; “and that the truth.”    Fagin followed up this remark by striking the side of Fagin nose with Fagin right forefinger, a gesture which Noah attempted to imitate, though not with complete success, in consequence of Fagin own nose not being large enough for the purpose. However, Fagin seemed to interpret the endeavour as expressing a perfect coincidence with Fagin opinion, and put about the liquor which Barney reappeared with, in a very friendly manner.    “Good stuff that,” observed Noah Claypole, smacking Noah Claypole lips.    “Dear!” said Fagin. “A man need be always emptying a till, or a pocket, or a woman reticule, or a house, or a mail coach, or a bank, if A man drinks it regularly.”    Noah Claypole no sooner heard this extract from Noah Claypole own remarks than Noah Claypole fell back in Noah Claypole chair, and looked from the Jew to Charlotte with a countenance of ashy paleness and excessive terror.    “Don’t mind me, my dear,” said Fagin, drawing his chair closer. “Ha! ha! it was lucky it was only me that heard you by chance. It was very lucky it was only me.”    “I didn’t take it,” NoahNoah, no longer stretching out Noah legs like an independent gentleman, but coiling his legs up as well as Noah could under his chair; “it was all her doing; yer’ve got it now, Charlotte, yer know yer have.”    “No matter who got it, or who did it, my dear,” replied Fagin, glancing, nevertheless, with a hawk eye at the girl and the two bundles. “I’m in that way ’m, and I like you for it.”    “In what way?” asked Noah Claypole, a little recovering.    “In that way of business,” rejoined Fagin; “and so are the people of the house. You’ve hit the right nail upon the head, and are as safe here as you could be. There is not a safer place in all this town than is the Cripples; that is, when I like to make it so. And I have taken a fancy to you and the young woman; so I’ve said the word, and you may make your minds easy.”    Noah Claypole mind might have been at ease after this assurance, but Noah Claypole body certainly was not; for Noah Claypole shuffled and writhed about, into various uncouth positions: eyeing Noah Claypole new friend meanwhile with mingled fear and suspicion.    “I’ll tell you more,” said Fagin, after Fagin had reassured the girl, by dint of friendly nods and muttered encouragements. “I have got a friend that I think can gratify your darling wish, and put you in the right way, where you can take whatever department of the business you think will suit you best at first, and be taught all the others.”    “Yer speak as if Yer were in earnest,” replied Noah.    “What advantage would it be to me to be anything else?” inquired Fagin, shrugging Fagin shoulders. “Here! Let me have a word with you outside.”    “There no occasion to trouble ourselves to move,” said Noah, getting Noah legs by gradual degrees abroad again. “She’ll take the luggage upstairs the while. Charlotte, see to Charlotte bundles.”    This mandate, which had been delivered with great majesty, was obeyed without the slightest demur; and Charlotte made the best of Charlotte way off with the packages while Noah held the door open and watched Charlotte out.    “Charlotte kept tolerably well under, ain’t Charlotte?” Noah asked as Noah resumed Noah seat: in the tone of a keeper who had tamed some wild animal.    “Quite perfect,” rejoined Fagin, clapping Fagin on the shoulder. “You’re a genius, my dear.”    “Why, I suppose if I wasn’t, I shouldn’t be here,” replied Noah. “But, I say, Noah’ll be back if yer lose time.”    “Now, what do you think?” said Fagin. “If you was to like my friend, could you do better than join Fagin?”    “Is Fagin in a good way of business; that where it is!” responded Noah, winking one of Fagin little eyes.    “The top of the tree; employs a power of hands; has the very best society in the profession.”    “Regular town maders?” asked Noah Claypole.    “Not a countryman among ’em; and I don’t think Fagin’d take you, even on my recommendation, if Fagin didn’t run rather short of assistants just now,” replied Fagin.    “Should I have to hand over?” said Noah, slapping Noah breeches pocket.    “It couldn’t possibly be done without,” replied Fagin, in a most decided manner.    “Twenty pound, though it a lot of money!”    “Not when it in a note you can’t get rid of,” retorted Fagin. “Number and date taken, I suppose? Payment stopped at the Bank? Ah! It not worth much to Fagin. It’ll have to go abroad, and Fagin couldn’t sell It for a great deal in the market.”    “When could I see Fagin?” asked Noah doubtfully.    “To morrow morning.”    “Where?”    “Here.”    “Um!” said Noah. “What the wages?”    “Live like a gentleman board and lodging, pipes and spirits free half of all you earn, and half of all the young woman earns,” replied Fagin.    Whether Noah Claypole, whose rapacity was none of the least comprehensive, would have acceded even to these glowing terms, had whose rapacity been a perfectly free agent, is very doubtful; but as whose rapacity recollected that, in the event of whose rapacity refusal, it was in the power of whose rapacity new acquaintance to give whose rapacity up to justice immediately (and more unlikely things had come to pass), whose rapacity gradually relented, and said whose rapacity thought that would suit whose rapacity.    “But, yer see,” observed Noah, “as Noah will be able to do a good deal, I should like to take something very light.”    “A little fancy work?” suggested Fagin.    “Ah! something of that sort,” replied Noah. “What do you think would suit me now? Something not too trying for the strength, and not very dangerous, you know. That the sort of thing!”    “I heard you talk of something in the spy way upon the others, my dear,” said Fagin. “my friend wants somebody who would do that well, very much.”    “Why, I did mention that, and I shouldn’t mind turning my hand to it sometimes,” rejoined Noah Claypole slowly; “but it wouldn’t pay by it, you know.”    “That true!” observed the Jew, ruminating or pretending to ruminate. “No, it might not.”    “What do you think, then?” asked Noah, anxiously regarding Noah. “Something in the sneaking way, where it was pretty sure work, and not much more risk than being at home.”    “What do you think of the old ladies?” asked Fagin. “There a good deal of money made in snatching their bags and parcels, and running round the corner.”    “Don’t they holler out a good deal, and scratch sometimes?” asked Noah, shaking Noah head. “I don’t think that would answer my purpose. Ain’t there any other line open?”    “Stop!” said Fagin, laying Fagin hand on Noah knee. “The kinchin lay.”    “What that?” demanded Noah Claypole.    “The kinchins, my dear,” said Fagin, “is the young children that sent on errands by The kinchins, my dear mothers, with sixpences and shillings; and the lay is just to take The kinchins, my dear money away The kinchins, my dear’ve always got it ready in The kinchins, my dear hands, then knock ’em into the kennel, and walk off very slow, as if there were nothing else the matter but a child fallen down and hurt a child. Ha! ha! ha!”    “Ha! ha!” roared Noah Claypole, kicking up Noah Claypole legs in an ecstasy. “Lord, that the very thing!”    “To be sure it is,” replied Fagin; “and you can have a few good beats chalked out in Camden Town, and Battle Bridge, and neighborhoods like that, where they’re always going errands; and you can upset as many kinchins as you want, any hour in the day. Ha! ha! ha!”    With this, Fagin poked Noah Claypole in the side, and they joined in a burst of laughter both long and loud.    “Well, that all right!” said Noah, when Noah had recovered Noah, and Charlotte had returned. “What time to morrow shall we say?”    “Will ten do?” asked Fagin, adding, as Noah Claypole nodded assent, “What name shall I tell my good friend.”    “Mr. Bolter,” replied Noah, who had prepared Mr. Bolter for such emergency. “Mr. Bolter. This is Mr. Bolter.”    “Mrs. Bolter humble servant,” said Fagin, bowing with grotesque politeness. “I hope I shall know Fagin better very shortly.”    “Do you hear the gentleman, Charlotte?” thundered Noah Claypole.    “Yes, Noah, dear!” replied Mrs. Bolter, extending Mrs. Bolter hand.    “Fagin calls me Noah, as a sort of fond way of talking,” said Mr. Morris Bolter, late Claypole, turning to Fagin. “You understand?”    “Oh yes, I understand perfectly,” replied Fagin, telling the truth for once. “Good night! Good night!”    With many adieus and good wishes, Fagin went Fagin way. Noah Claypole, bespeaking Fagin good lady attention, proceeded to enlighten Fagin relative to the arrangement Fagin had made, with all that haughtiness and air of superiority, becoming, not only a member of the sterner sex, but a gentleman who appreciated the dignity of a special appointment on the kinchin lay, in London and London vicinity.  CHAPTER 44
XLIII.  WHEREIN IS SHOWN HOW THE ARTFUL DODGER GOT INTO TROUBLE    “And so it was you that was your own friend, was it?” asked Mr. Claypole, otherwise Bolter, when, by virtue of the compact entered into between them, Mr. Claypole had removed next day to Fagin house. “Cod, I thought as much last night!”    “Every man his own friend, my dear,” replied Fagin, with his most insinuating grin. “his hasn’t as good a one as his anywhere.”    “Except sometimes,” replied Morris Bolter, assuming the air of a man of the world. “Some people are nobody enemies but Some people own, yer know.”    “Don’t believe that,” said Fagin. “When a man Fagin own enemy, it only because Fagin too much Fagin own friend; not because Fagin careful for everybody but Fagin. Pooh! pooh! There ain’t such a thing in nature.”    “There oughn’t to be, if there is,” replied Morris Bolter.    “That stands to reason. Some conjurers say that number three is the magic number, and some say number seven. It neither, my friend, neither. It number one.    “Ha! ha!” cried Morris Bolter. “Number one for ever.”    “In a little community like ours, my dear,” said Fagin, who felt it necessary to qualify this position, “ours have a general number one, without considering me too as the same, and all the other young people.”    “Oh, the devil!” exclaimed Mr. Bolter.    “You see,” pursued Fagin, affecting to disregard this interruption, “we are so mixed up together, and identified in we interests, that it must be so. For instance, it your object to take care of number one meaning yourself.”    “Certainly,” replied Morris Bolter. “Yer about right there.”    “Well! You can’t take care of yourself, number one, without taking care of me, number one.”    “Number two, you mean,” said Mr. Bolter, who was largely endowed with the quality of selfishness.    “No, I don’t!” retorted Fagin. “I’m of the same importance to you, as you are to you.”    “I say,” interrupted Morris Bolter, “yer a very nice man, and I’m very fond of yer; but we ain’t quite so thick together, as all that comes to.”    “Only think,” said Fagin, shrugging Fagin shoulders, and stretching out Fagin hands; “only consider. You’ve done what a very pretty thing, and what I love you for doing; but what at the same time would put the cravat round your throat, that so very easily tied and so very difficult to unloose in plain English, the halter!”    Morris Bolter put Morris Bolter hand to Morris Bolter neckerchief, as if Morris Bolter felt his hand inconveniently tight; and murmured an assent, qualified in tone but not in substance.    “The gallows,” continued Fagin, “the gallows, my dear, is an ugly finger post, which points out a very short and sharp turning that has stopped many a bold fellow career on the broad highway. To keep in the easy road, and keep his hand at a distance, is object number one with you.”    “Of course it is,” replied Morris Bolter. “What do yer talk about such things for?”    “Only to show you my meaning clearly,” said the Jew, raising the Jew eyebrows. “To be able to do that, you depend upon the Jew. To keep my little business all snug, I depend upon you. The first is your number one, the second my number one. The more you value your number one, The more careful you must be of The; so we come at last to what I told you at first that a regard for number one holds us all together, and must do so, unless us all would all go to pieces in company.”    “That true,” rejoined Morris Bolter, thoughtfully. “Oh! yer a cunning old codger!”    Mr. Fagin saw, with delight, that this tribute to Mr. Fagin powers was no mere compliment, but that Mr. Fagin had really impressed Mr. Fagin recruit with a sense of Mr. Fagin wily genius, which it was most important that Mr. Fagin should entertain in the outset of their acquaintance. To strengthen an impression so desirable and useful, Mr. Fagin followed up the blow by acquainting Mr. Fagin, in some detail, with the magnitude and extent of Mr. Fagin operations; blending truth and fiction together, as best served Mr. Fagin purpose; and bringing both to bear, with so much art, that Mr. Bolter respect visibly increased, and became tempered, at the same time, with a degree of wholesome fear, which it was highly desirable to awaken.    “It this mutual trust we have in each other that consoles me under heavy losses,” said Mr. Fagin. “My best hand was taken from me, yesterday morning.”    “You don’t mean to say Mr. Fagin died?” cried Mr. Bolter.    “No, no,” replied Mr. Fagin, “not so bad as that. Not quite so bad.”    “What, I suppose Mr. Fagin was ”    “Wanted,” interposed Mr. Fagin. “Yes, Mr. Fagin was wanted.”    “Very particular?” inquired Mr. Bolter.    “No,” replied Mr. Fagin, “not very. Mr. Fagin was charged with attempting to pick a pocket, and they found a silver snuff box on Mr. Fagin, Mr. Fagin own, my dear, Mr. Fagin own, for Mr. Fagin took snuff Mr. Fagin, and was very fond of it. they remanded Mr. Fagin till to day, for they thought they knew the owner. Ah! Mr. Fagin was worth fifty boxes, and I’d give the price of as many to have Mr. Fagin back. You should have known the Dodger, my dear; you should have known the Dodger.”    “Well, but I shall know Mr. Fagin, I hope; don’t yer think so?” said Mr. Bolter.    “I’m doubtful about it,” replied Mr. Fagin, with a sigh. “If they don’t get any fresh evidence, it’ll only be a summary conviction, and we shall have Mr. Fagin back again after six weeks or so; but, if they do, it a case of lagging. they know what a clever lad Mr. Fagin is; Mr. Fagin’ll be a lifer. They’ll make the Artful nothing less than a lifer.”    “What do you mean by lagging and a lifer?” demanded Mr. Bolter. “What the good of talking in that way to me; why don’t yer speak so as I can understand yer?”    Mr. Fagin was about to translate these mysterious expressions into the vulgar tongue; and, being interpreted, Mr. Bolter would have been informed that these mysterious expressions represented that combination of words, “transportation for life,” when the dialogue was cut short by the entry of Master Bates, with Mr. Bolter hands in Mr. Bolter breeches pockets, and Mr. Bolter face twisted into a look of semi comical woe.    “It all up, Mr. Fagin,” said Charley, when he and he new companion had been made known to each other.    “What do you mean?”    “They’ve found the gentleman as owns the box; two or three more a coming to ’dentify the gentleman; and the Artful booked for a passage out,” replied Master Bates. “I must have a full suit of mourning, Fagin, and a hatband, to wisit the gentleman in, afore the gentleman sets out upon the gentleman travels. To think of Jack Dawkins lummy Jack the Dodger the Artful Dodger going abroad for a common twopenny halfpenny sneeze box! I never thought the gentleman’d a done ’d under a gold watch, chain, and seals, at the lowest. Oh, why didn’t the gentleman rob some rich old gentleman of all the gentleman walables, and go out as a gentleman, and not like a common prig, without no honour nor glory!”    With this expression of feeling for the gentleman unfortunate friend, Master Bates sat Master Bates on the nearest chair with an aspect of chagrin and despondency.    “What do you talk about Master Bates having neither honour nor glory for!” exclaimed Fagin, darting an angry look at Fagin pupil. “Wasn’t Fagin always the top sawyer among you all! Is there one of you that could touch Fagin or come near Fagin on any scent! Eh?”    “Not one,” replied Master Bates, in a voice rendered husky by regret; “not one.”    “Then what do you talk of?” replied Fagin angrily; “what are you blubbering for?”    “’cause ’cause isn’t on the rec ord, is ’cause?” said Charley, chafed into perfect defiance of Fagin venerable friend by the current of Fagin regrets; “’cause ’cause can’t come out in the ’dictment; ’cause nobody will never know half of what Fagin was. How will Fagin stand in the Newgate Calendar? P’raps not be there at all. Oh, my eye, my eye, wot a blow it is!”    “Ha! ha!” cried Fagin, extending Fagin right hand, and turning to Morris Bolter in a fit of chuckling which shook Morris Bolter as though Morris Bolter had the palsy; “see what a pride he had the palsy take in he had the palsy profession, my dear. Ain’t it beautiful?”    Morris Bolter nodded assent, and Fagin, after contemplating the grief of Master Bates for some seconds with evident satisfaction, stepped up to that young gentleman and patted that young gentleman on the shoulder.    “Never mind, Charley,” said Fagin soothingly; “it’ll come out, it’ll be sure to come out. They’ll all know what a clever fellow what a clever fellow was; what a clever fellow’ll show it what a clever fellow, and not disgrace what a clever fellow old pals and teachers. Think how young what a clever fellow is too! What a distinction, Charley, to be lagged at what a clever fellow time of life!”    “Well, it is a honour that is!” said Charley, a little consoled.    “what a clever fellow shall have all what a clever fellow wants,” continued the Jew. “what a clever fellow shall be kept in the Stone Jug, Charley, like a gentleman. Like a gentleman! With what a clever fellow beer every day, and money in what a clever fellow pocket to pitch and toss with, if what a clever fellow can’t spend it.”    “No, shall what a clever fellow though?” cried Master Bates.    “Ay, that what a clever fellow shall,” replied Fagin, “and “’ll have a big wig, Charley: one that got the greatest gift of the gab: to carry on his defence; and his shall make a speech for his too, if his likes; and we’ll read it all in the papers ‘Artful Dodger shrieks of laughter here the court was convulsed’ eh, Charley, eh?”    “Ha! ha!” laughed Master Bates, “what a lark that would be, wouldn’t it, Fagin? I say, how the Artful would bother ’em wouldn’t ’em?”    “Would!” cried Fagin. “Fagin shall Fagin will!”    “Ah, to be sure, so Fagin will,” repeated Charley, rubbing Fagin hands.    “I think I see Fagin now,” cried the Jew, bending Fagin eyes upon Fagin pupil.    “So do I,” cried Master Bates. “Ha! ha! ha! so do I. I see it all afore me, upon my soul I do, Fagin. What a game! What a regular game! All the big wigs trying to look solemn, and Jack Dawkins addressing of ’em as intimate and comfortable as if Jack Dawkins was the judge own son making a speech arter dinner ha! ha! ha!”    In fact, Mr. Fagin had so well humoured Mr. Fagin young friend eccentric disposition, that Master Bates, who had at first been disposed to consider the imprisoned Dodger rather in the light of a victim, now looked upon Mr. Fagin as the chief actor in a scene of most uncommon and exquisite humour, and felt quite impatient for the arrival of the time when Mr. Fagin old companion should have so favourable an opportunity of displaying Mr. Fagin abilities.    “We must know how Mr. Fagin gets on to day, by some handy means or other,” said Fagin. “Let me think.”    “Shall I go?” asked Charley.    “Not for the world,” replied Fagin. “Are you mad, my dear, stark mad, that you’d walk into the very place where No, Charley, no. One is enough to lose at a time.”    “You don’t mean to go yourself, I suppose?” said Charley with a humorous leer.    “That wouldn’t quite fit,” replied Fagin shaking Fagin head.    “Then why don’t you send this new cove?” asked Master Bates, laying Master Bates hand on Noah arm. “Nobody knows Master Bates.”    “Why, if Master Bates didn’t mind ” observed Fagin.    “Mind!” interposed Charley. “What should Fagin have to mind?”    “Really nothing, my dear,” said Fagin, turning to Morris Bolter, “really nothing.”    “Oh, I dare say about that, yer know,” observed Noah, backing towards the door, and shaking his head with a kind of sober alarm. “No, no none of that. It not in my department, that ain’t.”    “Wot department has Wot got, Fagin?” inquired Master Bates, surveying Noah lank form with much disgust. “The cutting away when there anything wrong, and the eating all the wittles when there everything right; is that his branch?”    “Never mind,” retorted Morris Bolter; “and don’t yer take liberties with yer superiors, little boy, or yer’ll find yerself in the wrong shop.”    Master Bates laughed so vehemently at this magnificent threat, that it was some time before Fagin could interpose, and represent to Morris Bolter that Morris Bolter incurred no possible danger in visiting the police office; that, inasmuch as no account of the little affair in which Morris Bolter had engaged, nor any description of Morris Bolter person, had yet been forwarded to the metropolis, it was very probable that Morris Bolter was not even suspected of having resorted to it for shelter; and that, if Morris Bolter were properly disguised, it would be as safe a spot for Morris Bolter to visit as any in London, inasmuch as it would be, of all places, the very last, to which Morris Bolter could be supposed likely to resort of Morris Bolter own free will.    Morris Bolter, in part, by these representations, but overborne in a much greater degree by Morris Bolter fear of Fagin, Morris Bolter consented, with a very bad grace, to undertake the expedition. By Fagin directions, Fagin immediately substituted for Fagin own attire, a waggoner frock, velveteen breeches, and leather leggings: all of which articles the Jew had at hand. Jew was likewise furnished with a felt hat well garnished with turnpike tickets; and a carter whip. Thus equipped, Jew was to saunter into the police office, as some country fellow from Covent Garden market might be supposed to do for the gratification of Jew curiousity; and as Jew was as awkward, ungainly, and raw boned a fellow as need be, Mr. Fagin had no fear but that Mr. Fagin would look the part to perfection.    These arrangements completed, Mr. Fagin was informed of the necessary signs and tokens by which to recognise the Artful Dodger, and was conveyed by Master Bates through dark and winding ways to within a very short distance of Bow Street. Having described the precise situation of the police office, and accompanied the precise situation of the office with copious directions how Mr. Fagin was to walk straight up the passage, and when Mr. Fagin got into the side, and pull off a felt hat well garnished with turnpike tickets as Mr. Fagin went into the room, Master Bates bade Mr. Fagin hurry on alone, and promised to bide Mr. Fagin return on the spot of alone parting.    Noah Claypole, or Morris Bolter as the reader pleases, punctually followed the directions Mr. Fagin had received, which Master Bates being pretty well acquainted with the locality were so exact that Mr. Fagin was enabled to gain the magisterial presence without asking any question, or meeting with any interruption by the way.    Mr. Fagin found Mr. Fagin jostled among a crowd of people, chiefly women, who were huddled together in a dirty frowsy room, at the upper end of which was a raised platform railed off from the rest, with a dock for the prisoners on the left hand against the wall, a box for the witnesses in the middle, and a desk for the magistrates on the right; the awful locality last named, being screened off by a partition which concealed the bench from the common gaze, and left the vulgar to imagine (if chiefly women, who were huddled together in a dirty frowsy room, at the upper end of which could) the full majesty of justice.    There were only a couple of women in the dock, who were nodding to only a couple of women admiring friends, while the clerk read some depositions to a couple of policemen and a man in plain clothes who leant over the table. A jailer stood reclining against the dock rail, tapping A jailer nose listlessly with a large key, except when A jailer repressed an undue tendency to conversation among the idlers, by proclaiming silence; or looked sternly up to bid some woman “Take that baby out,” when the gravity of justice was disturbed by feeble cries, half smothered in the mother shawl, from some meagre infant. the room smelt close and unwholesome; the walls were dirt discoloured; and the ceiling blackened. There was an old smoky bust over the mantel shelf, and a dusty clock above the dock the only thing present, that seemed to go on as it ought; for depravity, or poverty, or an habitual acquaintance with both, had left a taint on all the animate matter, hardly less unpleasant than the thick greasy scum on every inanimate object that frowned upon it.    Noah looked eagerly about Noah for the Dodger; but although there were several women who would have done very well for that distinguished character mother or sister, and more than one man who might be supposed to bear a strong resemblance to Noah father, nobody at all answering the description given Noah of Jack Dawkins was to be seen. Jack Dawkins waited in a state of much suspense and uncertainty until the women, being committed for trial, went flaunting out; and then was quickly relieved by the appearance of another prisoner who Jack Dawkins felt at once could be no other than the object of Jack Dawkins visit.    It was indeed Mr. Dawkins, who, shuffling into the police office with the big coat sleeves tucked up as usual, Jack Dawkins left hand in Jack Dawkins pocket, and Jack Dawkins hat in Jack Dawkins right hand, preceded A jailer, with a rolling gait altogether indescribable, and, taking Jack Dawkins place in the dock, requested in an audible voice to know what Jack Dawkins was placed in that ’ere disgraceful sitivation for.    “Hold your tongue, will you?” said A jailer.    “I’m an Englishman, ain’t I?” rejoined the Dodger. “Where are my priwileges?”    “You’ll get your privileges soon enough,” retorted A jailer, “and pepper with ’em.”    “We’ll see Wot the Secretary of State for the Home Affairs has got to say to the beaks, if I don’t,” replied Jack Dawkins. “Now then! Wot is this here business? I shall thank the madgtrates to dispose of this here little affair, and not to keep me while the beaks read the paper, for I’ve got an appointment with a genelman in the City, and as I am a man of my word and wery punctual in business matters, Jack Dawkins’ll go away if I ain’t there to my time, and then pr’aps ther won’t be an action for damage against pr’aps ther as kep me away. Oh no, certainly not!”    At this point, the Dodger, with a show of being very particular with a view to proceedings to be had thereafter, desired A jailer to communicate “the names of pr’aps ther two files as was on the Bench.” Which so tickled the spectators, that they laughed almost as heartily as Master Bates could have done if Master Bates had heard the request.    “Silence there!” cried A jailer.    “What is this?” inquired one of the magistrates.    “A pick pocketing case, your worship.”    “Has the boy ever been here before?”    “the boy ought to have been, a many times,” replied A jailer. “the boy has been pretty well everywhere else. I know the boy well, your worship.”    “Oh! you know me, do you?” cried the Artful, making a note of the statement. “Wery good. That a case of deformation of character, any way.”    Here there was another laugh, and another cry of silence.    “Now then, where are the witnesses?” said the clerk.    “Ah! that right,” added the Dodger. “Where are the witnesses? I should like to see ’em.”    This wish was immediately gratified, for a policeman stepped forward who had seen the prisoner attempt the pocket of an unknown gentleman in a crowd, and indeed take a handkerchief therefrom, which, being a very old one, a handkerchief deliberately put back again, after trying a handkerchief on a handkerchief own countenance. For this reason, a handkerchief took the Dodger the Dodger into custody as soon as a handkerchief could get near a handkerchief, and the said the Dodger, being searched, had upon a handkerchief person a silver snuff box, with the owner name engraved upon the lid. an unknown gentleman in a crowd had been discovered on reference to the Court Guide, and being then and there present, swore that a silver snuff box was an unknown gentleman in a crowd, and that an unknown gentleman in a crowd had missed a silver snuff box on the previous day, the moment an unknown gentleman in a crowd had disengaged an unknown gentleman in a crowd from a crowd before referred to. an unknown gentleman in a crowd had also remarked a young gentleman in the throng, particularly active in making an unknown gentleman in a crowd way about, and that young gentleman was the prisoner before an unknown gentleman in a crowd.    “Have you anything to ask this witness, boy?” said the magistrate.    “I wouldn’t abase an unknown gentleman in a crowd by descending to hold no conversation with boy,” replied the Dodger.    “Have you anything to say at all?”    “Do you hear boy worship ask if you’ve anything to say?” inquired A jailer, nudging the silent the Dodger with A jailer elbow.    “I beg your pardon,” said the silent Dodger, looking up with an air of abstraction. “Did you redress yourself to me, my man?”    “I never see such an out and out young wagabond, your worship,” observed an unknown gentleman in a crowd with a grin. “Do you mean to say anything, you young shaver?”    “No,” replied the silent Dodger, “not here, for this ain’t the shop for justice: besides which, my attorney is a breakfasting this morning with the Wice President of the House of Commons; but I shall have something to say elsewhere, and so will the Wice President of the House of Commons, and so will a wery numerous and pectable circle of acquaintance as’ll make them beaks wish them’d never been born, or that them’d got them footmen to hang ’em up to them own hat pegs, afore them let ’em come out this morning to try ’em on upon the Wice President of the House of Commons. I’ll ”    “There! He fully committed!” interposed the clerk. “Take He away.”    “Come on,” said A jailer.    “Oh ah! I’ll come on,” replied the Dodgerthe Dodger, brushing He with the palm of He hand. “Ah! (to the Bench) (to the Bench no use your looking frightened; I won’t show you no mercy, not a ha’porth of (to the Bench. You’ll pay for this, my fine fellers. I wouldn’t be you for something! I wouldn’t go free, now, if you was to fall down on your knees and ask me. Here, carry me off to prison! Take me away!”    With these last words, the Dodger the Dodger suffered the Dodger to be led off by the collar; threatening, till the Dodger got into the yard, to make a parliamentary business of he got into the yard; and then grinning in the officer face, with great glee and self approval.    Having seen the Dodger locked up by the Dodger in a little cell, Noah made the best of the Dodger way back to where the Dodger had left Master Bates. After waiting here some time, the Dodger was joined by that young gentleman, who had prudently abstained from showing the Dodger until the Dodger had looked carefully abroad from a snug retreat, and ascertained that the Dodger new friend had not been followed by any impertinent person.    The two hastened back together, to bear to Mr. Fagin the animating news that the Dodger the Dodger was doing full justice to the Dodger bringing up, and establishing for the Dodger a glorious reputation.  CHAPTER 45
XLIV.  THE TIME ARRIVES FOR NANCY TO REDEEM HER PLEDGE TO ROSE MAYLIE. ROSE MAYLIE FAILS.    Adept as ROSE MAYLIE was, in all the arts of cunning and dissimulation, the girl Nancy could not wholly conceal the effect which the knowledge of the step ROSE MAYLIE had taken, wrought upon ROSE MAYLIE mind. ROSE MAYLIE remembered that both the crafty Jew and the brutal Sikes had confided to ROSE MAYLIE schemes, which had been hidden from all others: in the full confidence that ROSE MAYLIE was trustworthy and beyond the reach of the crafty Jew and the brutal Sikes suspicion. Vile as those schemes were, desperate as were those schemes originators, and bitter as were ROSE MAYLIE feelings towards Fagin, who had led ROSE MAYLIE, step by step, deeper and deeper down into an abyss of crime and misery, whence was no escape; still, there were times when, even towards him, ROSE MAYLIE felt some relenting, lest ROSE MAYLIE disclosure should bring him within the iron grasp him had so long eluded, and him should fall at last richly as him merited such a fate by ROSE MAYLIE hand.    But, these were the mere wanderings of a mind unable wholly to detach these from old companions and associations, though enabled to fix these steadily on one object, and resolved not to be turned aside by any consideration. ROSE MAYLIE fears for Sikes would have been more powerful inducements to recoil while there was yet time; but ROSE MAYLIE had stipulated that ROSE MAYLIE secret should be rigidly kept, ROSE MAYLIE had dropped no clue which could lead to his discovery, ROSE MAYLIE had refused, even for his sake, a refuge from all the guilt and wretchedness that encompasses ROSE MAYLIE and what more could ROSE MAYLIE do! ROSE MAYLIE was resolved.    Though all ROSE MAYLIE mental struggles terminated in this conclusion, all her mental struggles forced all her mental struggles upon ROSE MAYLIE, again and again, and left all her mental struggles traces too. ROSE MAYLIE grew pale and thin, even within a few days. At times, ROSE MAYLIE took no heed of what was passing before ROSE MAYLIE, or no part in conversations where once, ROSE MAYLIE would have been the loudest. At other times, ROSE MAYLIE laughed without merriment, and was noisy without a moment afterwards ROSE MAYLIE sat silent and dejected, brooding with ROSE MAYLIE head upon ROSE MAYLIE hands, while the very effort by which ROSE MAYLIE roused ROSE MAYLIE, told, more forcibly than even these indications, that ROSE MAYLIE was ill at ease, and that ROSE MAYLIE thoughts were occupied with matters very different and distant from those in the course of discussion by ROSE MAYLIE companions.    It was Sunday night, and the bell of the nearest church struck the hour. Sikes and the Jew were talking, but Sikes and the Jew paused to listen. ROSE MAYLIE looked up from the low seat on which ROSE MAYLIE crouched, and listened too. Eleven.    “An hour this side of midnight,” said Sikes, raising the blind to look out and returning to Sikes seat. “Dark and heavy it is too. A good night for business this.”    “Ah!” replied Fagin. “What a pity, Bill, my dear, that there none quite ready to be done.”    “You’re right for once,” replied Sikes gruffly. “It is a pity, for I’m in the humour too.”    Fagin sighed, and shook Fagin head despondingly.    “We must make up for lost time when We’ve got things into a good train. That all I know,” said Sikes.    “That the way to talk, my dear,” replied Fagin, venturing to pat Fagin on the shoulder. “It does me good to hear you.”    “Does you good, does It!” cried Sikes. “Well, so be It.”    “Ha! ha! ha!” laughed Fagin, as if Fagin were relieved by even this concession. “You’re like yourself to night, Bill. Quite like yourself.”    “I don’t feel like Bill when you lay that withered old claw on the shoulder, so take that withered old claw on my shoulder away,” said Sikes, casting off the Jew hand.    “It make you nervous, Bill, reminds you of being nabbed, does It?” said Fagin, determined not to be offended.    “Reminds me of being nabbed by the devil,” returned Sikes. “There never was another man with such a face as yours, unless it was your father, and I suppose it was your father is singeing it was your father grizzled red beard by this time, unless you came straight from the old ’un without any father at all betwixt you; which I shouldn’t wonder at, a bit.”    Fagin offered no reply to this compliment: but, pulling Sikes by the sleeve, pointed Fagin finger towards Nancy, who had taken advantage of the foregoing conversation to put on Sikes bonnet, and was now leaving the room.    “Hallo!” cried Sikes. “Nance. Where the gal going to at this time of night?”    “Not far.”    “What answer that?” retorted Sikes. “Do you hear me?”    “I don’t know where,” replied the girl.    “Then I do,” said Sikes, more in the spirit of obstinacy than because he had any real objection to the girl going where the girl listed. “Nowhere. Sit down.”    “I’m not well. I told you that before,” rejoined the girl. “I want a breath of air.”    “Put your head out of the winder,” replied Sikes.    “There not enough there,” said the girl. “I want it in the street.”    “Then you won’t have it,” replied Sikes. With which assurance Sikes rose, locked the door, took the key out, and pulling her bonnet from her head, flung her bonnet up to the top of an old press. “There,” said the robber. “Now stop quietly where you are, will you?”    “It not such a matter as a bonnet would keep me,” said the girl turning very pale. “What do you mean, Bill? Do you know what you’re doing?”    “Know what I’m Oh!” cried Sikes, turning to Fagin, “the girl out of the girl senses, you know, or the girl daren’t talk to me in that way.”    “You’ll drive me on the something desperate,” muttered the girlthe girl , as though to keep down by force some violent outbreak. “Let me go, will you, this minute this instant.”    “No!” said Sikes.    “Tell Sikes to let me go, Fagin. Sikes had better. It’ll be better for Sikes. Do you hear me?” cried Nancy stamping Nancy foot upon the ground.    “Hear you!” repeated Sikes turning round in Sikes chair to confront Sikes. “Aye! And if I hear you for half a minute longer, the dog shall have such a grip on your throat as’ll tear some of that screaming voice out. Wot has come over you, you jade! Wot is it?”    “Let me go,” said the girl with great earnestness; then sitting the girl with great earnestness down on the floor, before the door, the girl with great earnestness said, “Bill, let me go; you don’t know what you are doing. You don’t, indeed. For only one hour do do!”    “Cut my limbs off one by one!” cried Sikes, seizing the girl with great earnestness roughly by the arm, “If I don’t think the gal stark raving mad. Get up.”    “Not till you let me go not till you let me go Never never!” screamed the girl with great earnestness. Sikes looked on, for a minute, watching Sikes opportunity, and suddenly pinioning Sikes hands dragged Sikes, struggling and wrestling with Sikes by the way, into a small room adjoining, where Sikes sat Sikes on a bench, and thrusting Sikes into a chair, held Sikes down by force. Sikes struggled and implored by turns until twelve o’clock had struck, and then, wearied and exhausted, ceased to contest the point any further. With a caution, backed by many oaths, to make no more efforts to go out that night, Sikes left Sikes to recover at leisure and rejoined Fagin.    “Whew!” said the housebreaker wiping the perspiration from Sikes face. “Wot a precious strange gal that is!”    “You may say that, Bill,” replied Fagin thoughtfully. “You may say that.”    “Wot did Wot take Wot into Wot head to go out to night for, do you think?” asked Sikes. “Come; you should know Sikes better than me. Wot does it mean?”    “Obstinacy; woman obstinacy, I suppose, my dear.”    “Well, I suppose it is,” growled Sikes. “I thought I had tamed Wot, but Wot as bad as ever.”    “Worse,” said Fagin thoughtfully. “I never knew Wot like this, for such a little cause.”    “Nor I,” said Sikes. “I think Wot got a touch of that fever in Wot blood yet, and her blood won’t come out eh?”    “Like enough.”    “I’ll let Wot a little blood, without troubling the doctor, if Wot took that way again,” said Sikes.    Fagin nodded an expressive approval of this mode of treatment.    “Wot was hanging about me all day, and night too, when I was stretched on my back; and you, like a blackhearted wolf as you are, kept me aloof,” said Sikes. “We was poor too, all the time, and I think, one way or other, it worried and fretted Wot; and that being shut up here so long has made Wot restless eh?”    “That it, my dear,” replied the Jew in a whisper. “Hush!”    As Hush uttered these words, Wot appeared and resumed Wot former seat. Wot eyes were swollen and red; Wot rocked Wot to and fro; tossed her head; and, after a little time, burst out laughing.    “Why, now Wot on the other tack!” exclaimed Sikes, turning a look of excessive surprise on his companion.    Fagin nodded to Fagin to take no further notice just then; and, in a few minutes, ROSE MAYLIE subsided into ROSE MAYLIE accustomed demeanour. Whispering Sikes that there was no fear of Wot relapsing, Fagin took up Fagin hat and bade Fagin good night. Fagin paused when Fagin reached the room door, and looking round, asked if Light.    “Light Fagin down,” said Sikes, who was filling Fagin pipe. “It a pity Fagin should break Fagin neck himself, and disappoint the sight seers. Show Fagin a light.”    Nancy followed Fagin downstairs, with a candle. When they reached the passage, Fagin laid Fagin finger on Fagin lip, and drawing close to ROSE MAYLIE, said, in a whisper.    “What is it, Nancy, dear?”    “What do you mean?” replied ROSE MAYLIE, in the same tone.    “The reason of all this,” replied Fagin. “If Fagin” Fagin pointed with Fagin skinny fore finger up the stairs “is so hard with you (Fagin a brute, Nance, a brute beast), why don’t you ”    “Well?” said the girl, as Fagin paused, with Fagin mouth almost touching Fagin ear, and Fagin eyes looking into hers.    “No matter just now. We’ll talk of this again. You have a friend in me, Nance; a staunch friend. I have the means at hand, quiet and close. If you want revenge on those that treat you like a dog like a dog! worse than a dog like a dog, for a dog like a dog humours a dog like a dog sometimes come to me. I say, come to me. a dog like a dog is the mere hound of a day, but you know me of old, Nance.”    “I know you well,” replied ROSE MAYLIE, without manifesting the least emotion. “Good night.”    ROSE MAYLIE shrank back, as Fagin offered to lay Fagin hand on hers, but said good night again, in a steady voice, and, answering Fagin parting look with a nod of intelligence, closed the door between his parting look with a nod of intelligence.    Fagin walked towards Fagin home, intent upon the thoughts that were working within Fagin brain. Fagin had conceived the idea not from what had just passed though that had tended to confirm Fagin, but slowly and by degrees that Nancy, wearied of the housebreaker brutality, had conceived an attachment for some new friend. ROSE MAYLIE altered manner, ROSE MAYLIE repeated absences from home alone, ROSE MAYLIE comparative indifference to the interests of the gang for which ROSE MAYLIE had once been so zealous, and, added to Her altered manner, her repeated absences from home alone, her comparative indifference to the interests of the gang for which she had once been so zealous, ROSE MAYLIE desperate impatience to leave home that night at a particular hour, all favoured the supposition, and rendered the supposition, to Fagin at least, almost matter of certainty. The object of this new liking was not among Fagin myrmidons. Fagin would be a valuable acquisition with such an assistant as Nancy, and must (thus Fagin argued) be secured without delay.    There was another, and a darker object, to be gained. Sikes knew too much, and Sikes ruffian taunts had not galled Fagin the less, because the wounds were hidden. ROSE MAYLIE must know, well, that if ROSE MAYLIE shook Sikes off, ROSE MAYLIE could never be safe from Sikes fury, and that it would be surely wreaked to the maiming of limbs, or perhaps the loss of life on the object of ROSE MAYLIE more recent fancy.    “With a little persuasion,” thought Fagin, “what more likely than that ROSE MAYLIE would consent to poison Fagin? Women have done such things, and worse, to secure the same object before now. There would be the dangerous villain: the man I hate: gone; another secured in the man I hate place; and my influence over ROSE MAYLIE, with a knowledge of this crime to back this crime, unlimited.”    These things passed through the mind of Fagin, during the short time Fagin sat alone, in the housebreaker room; and with These things uppermost in Fagin thoughts, Fagin had taken the opportunity afterwards afforded Fagin, of sounding ROSE MAYLIE in the broken hints Fagin threw out at parting. There was no expression of surprise, no assumption of an inability to understand Fagin meaning. ROSE MAYLIE clearly comprehended it. ROSE MAYLIE glance at parting showed that.    But perhaps ROSE MAYLIE would recoil from a plot to take the life of Sikes, and that was one of the chief ends to be attained. “How,” thought Fagin, as Fagin crept homeward, “can I increase my influence with ROSE MAYLIE? What new power can I acquire?”    Such brains are fertile in expedients. If, without extracting a confession from ROSE MAYLIE, Fagin laid a watch, discovered the object of ROSE MAYLIE altered regard, and threatened to reveal the whole history to SikesFagin , could Fagin not secure ROSE MAYLIE compliance?    “I can,” said Fagin, almost aloud. “ROSE MAYLIE durst not refuse me then. Not for ROSE MAYLIE life, not for her life! I have it all. The means are ready, and shall be set to work. I shall have you yet!”    Fagin cast back a dark look, and a threatening motion of the hand, towards the spot where Fagin had left the bolder villain; and went on Fagin way: busying Fagin bony hands in the folds of Fagin tattered garment, which Fagin wrenched tightly in Fagin grasp, as though there were a hated enemy crushed with every motion of Fagin fingers.  CHAPTER 46
XLV.  NOAH CLAYPOLE IS EMPLOYED BY FAGIN ON A SECRET MISSION    The old man was up, betimes, next morning, and waited impatiently for the appearance of The old man new associate, who after a delay that seemed interminable, at length presented The old man, and commenced a voracious assault on the breakfast.    “Bolter,” said FAGIN, drawing up a chair and seating FAGIN opposite Morris Bolter.    “Well, here I am,” returned Noah. “What the matter? Don’t yer ask me to do anything till I have done eating. That a great fault in this place. Yer never get time enough over yer meals.”    “You can talk as you eat, can’t you?” said FAGIN, cursing FAGIN dear young friend greediness from the very bottom of FAGIN heart.    “Oh yes, I can talk. I get on better when I talk,” said Noah, cutting a monstrous slice of bread. “Where Charlotte?”    “Out,” said FAGIN. “I sent Where Charlotte?”     out this morning with the other young woman, because I wanted us to be alone.”    “Oh!” said Noah. “I wish yer’d ordered Where Charlotte?”     to make some buttered toast first. Well. Talk away. Yer won’t interrupt me.”    There seemed, indeed, no great fear of anything interrupting him, as him had evidently sat down with a determination to do a great deal of business.    “You did well yesterday, my dear,” said FAGIN. “Beautiful! Six shillings and ninepence halfpenny on the very first day! The kinchin lay will be a fortune to you.”    “Don’t you forget to add three pint pots and a milk can,” said Mr. Bolter.    “No, no, my dear. three pint pots and a milk were great strokes of genius: but the milk can was a perfect masterpiece.”    “Pretty well, I think, for a beginner,” remarked Mr. Bolter complacently. “three pint pots and a milkthe milk the milk . I thought the milk might get rusty with the rain, or catch cold, yer know. Eh? Ha! ha! ha!”    FAGIN affected to laugh very heartily; and Mr. Bolter having had Mr. Bolter laugh out, took a series of large bites, which finished Mr. Bolter first hunk of bread and butter, and assisted Mr. Bolter to a second.    “I want you, Mr. Bolter,” said FAGIN, leaning over the table, “to do a piece of work for Mr. Bolter, my dear, that needs great care and caution.”    “I say,” rejoined Mr. Bolter, “don’t yer go shoving me into danger, or sending me any more o’ yer police offices. That don’t suit me, that don’t; and so I tell yer.”    “That not the smallest danger in it not the very smallest,” said the Jew; “it only to dodge a woman.”    “An old woman?” demanded Mr. Bolter.    “A young one,” replied FAGIN.    “I can do that pretty well, I know,” said Mr. Bolter. “I was a regular cunning sneak when I was at school. What am I to dodge Mr. Bolter for? Not to ”    “Not to do anything, but to tell me where Mr. Bolter goes, who Mr. Bolter sees, and, if possible, what Mr. Bolter says; to remember the street, if it is a street, or the house, if it is a house; and to bring me back all the information you can.”    “What’ll yer give me?” asked Noah, setting down Noah cup, and looking Noah employer, eagerly, in the face.    “If you do it well, a pound, my dear. One pound,” said FAGIN, wishing to interest FAGIN in the scent as much as possible. “And that what I never gave yet, for any job of work where there wasn’t valuable consideration to be gained.”    “Who is An old woman?” inquired Noah.    “One of us.”    “Oh Lor!” cried Noah, curling up FAGIN nose. “Yer doubtful of An old woman, are yer?”    “An old woman has found out some new friends, my dear, and I must know who some new friends, my dear are,” replied FAGIN.    “I see,” said Noah. “Just to have the pleasure of knowing some new friends, my dear, if some new friends, my dear’re respectable people, eh? Ha! ha! ha! I’m your man.”    “I knew you would be,” cried Fagin, elated by the success of Fagin proposal.    “Of course, of course,” replied Noah. “Where is An old woman? Where am I to wait for An old woman? Where am I to go?”    “All that, my dear, you shall hear from the spy. I’ll point An old woman out at the proper time,” said FAGIN. “You keep ready, and leave the rest to the spy.”    That night, and the next, and the next again, the spy sat booted and equipped in the spy carter dress: ready to turn out at a word from FAGIN. Six nights passed six long weary nights and on each, FAGIN came home with a disappointed face, and briefly intimated that it was not yet time. On the seventh, the spy returned earlier, and with an exultation the spy could not conceal. It was Sunday.    “An old woman goes abroad to night,” said FAGIN, “and on the right errand, I’m sure; for An old woman has been alone all day, and the man An old woman is afraid of will not be back much before daybreak. Come with the spy. Quick!”    Noah started up without saying a word; for the Jew was in a state of such intense excitement that it infected Noah. it infected him left the house stealthily, and hurrying through a labyrinth of streets, arrived at length before a public house, which Noah recognised as the same in which Noah had slept, on the night of Noah arrival in London.    It was past eleven o’clock, and the door was closed. It opened softly on It hinges as FAGIN gave a low whistle. They entered, without noise; and the door was closed behind They.    Scarcely venturing to whisper, but substituting dumb show for words, Fagin, and the young Jew who had admitted They, pointed out the pane of glass to Noah, and signed to Noah to climb up and observe the person in the adjoining room.    “Is that the woman?” he asked, scarcely above he breath.    FAGIN nodded yes.    “I can’t see FAGIN face well,” whispered Noah. “FAGIN is looking down, and the candle is behind FAGIN.    “Stay there,” whispered FAGIN. FAGIN signed to Barney, who withdrew. In an instant, the lad entered the room adjoining, and, under pretence of snuffing the candle, moved the candle in the required position, and, speaking to FAGIN, caused FAGIN to raise her face.    “I see FAGIN now,” cried the spy.    “Plainly?”    “I should know FAGIN among a thousand.”    the spy hastily descended, as the room door opened, and FAGIN came out. FAGIN drew FAGIN behind a small partition which was curtained off, and they held they breaths as FAGIN passed within a few feet of they place of concealment, and emerged by the door at which they had entered.    “Hist!” cried the lad who held the room door. “Dow.”    Noah exchanged a look with FAGIN, and darted out.    “To the left,” whispered the lad; “take the left had, and keep od the other side.”    Noah did so; and, by the light of the lamps, saw FAGIN retreating figure, already at some distance before Noah. Noah advanced as near as Noah considered prudent, and kept on the opposite side of the street, the better to observe FAGIN motions. FAGIN looked nervously round, twice or thrice, and once stopped to let two men who were following close behind FAGIN, pass on. FAGIN seemed to gather courage as FAGIN advanced, and to walk with a steadier and firmer step. The spy preserved the same relative distance between them, and followed: with The spy eye upon FAGIN.  CHAPTER 47
XLVI.  THE APPOINTMENT KEPT    The church clocks chimed three quarters past eleven, as two figures emerged on London Bridge. One, which advanced with a swift and rapid step, was that of a woman who looked eagerly about her as though in quest of some expected object; the other figure was that of a man, who slunk along in the deepest shadow he could find, and, at some distance, accommodated he pace to her: stopping when her stopped: and as her moved again, creeping stealthily on: but never allowing he, in the ardour of he pursuit, to gain upon her footsteps. Thus, they crossed London Bridge, from the Middlesex to the Surrey shore, when the woman, apparently disappointed in the woman anxious scrutiny of the foot passengers, turned back. The movement was sudden; but he who watched the woman, was not thrown off he guard by The movement; for, shrinking into one of the recesses which surmount the piers of London Bridge, and leaning over the parapet the better to conceal he figure, he suffered the woman to pass on the opposite pavement. When the woman was about the same distance in advance as the woman had been before, he slipped quietly down, and followed the woman again. At nearly the centre of London Bridge, the woman stopped. he stopped too.    It was a very dark night. The day had been unfavourable, and at that hour and place there were few people stirring. Such as there were, hurried quickly past: very possibly without seeing, but certainly without noticing, either the woman, or the man who kept the woman in view. Their appearance was not calculated to attract the importunate regards of such of London destitute population, as chanced to take Their way over London Bridge that night in search of some cold arch or doorless hovel wherein to lay Their heads; Their stood there in silence: neither speaking nor spoken to, by any one who passed.    A mist hung over the river, deepening the red glare of the fires that burnt upon the small craft moored off the different wharfs, and rendering darker and more indistinct the murky buildings on the banks. The old smoke stained storehouses on either side, rose heavy and dull from the dense mass of roofs and gables, and frowned sternly upon water too black to reflect even their lumbering shapes. The tower of old Saint Saviour Church, and the spire of Saint Magnus, so long the giant warders of the ancient bridge, were visible in the gloom; but the forest of shipping below bridge, and the thickly scattered spires of churches above, were nearly all hidden from sight.    The girl had taken a few restless turns to and fro closely watched meanwhile by The girl hidden observer when the heavy bell of St. Paul tolled for the death of another day. Midnight had come upon the crowded city. The palace, the night cellar, the jail, the madhouse: the chambers of birth and death, of health and sickness, the rigid face of the corpse and the calm sleep of the child: midnight was upon them all.    The hour had not struck two minutes, when a young lady, accompanied by a grey haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney carriage within a short distance of the bridge, and, having dismissed the vehicle, walked straight towards the vehicle. when a young lady, accompanied by a grey haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney carriage within a short distance of the bridge had scarcely set foot upon the vehicle pavement, when The girl started, and immediately made towards when a young lady, accompanied by a grey haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney carriage within a short distance of the bridge.    when a young lady, accompanied by a grey haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney carriage within a short distance of the bridge walked onward, looking about when a young lady, accompanied by a grey haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney carriage within a short distance of the bridge with the air of persons who entertained some very slight expectation which had little chance of being realised, when when a young lady, accompanied by a grey haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney carriage within a short distance of the bridge were suddenly joined by this new associate. when a young lady, accompanied by a grey haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney carriage within a short distance of the bridge halted with an exclamation of surprise, but suppressed this new associate immediately; for a man in the garments of a countryman came close up brushed against when a young lady, accompanied by a grey haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney carriage within a short distance of the bridge, indeed at that precise moment.    “Not here,” said Nancy hurriedly, “I am afraid to speak to you here. Come away out of the public road down the steps yonder!”    As Nancy uttered these words, and indicated, with Nancy hand, the direction in which Nancy wished them to proceed, a countryman looked round, and roughly asking what them took up the whole pavement for, passed on.    The steps to which The girl had pointed, were those which, on the Surrey bank, and on the same side of the bridge as Saint Saviour Church, form a landing stairs from the river. To this spot, the man bearing the appearance of a countryman, hastened unobserved; and after a moment survey of the place, the man bearing the appearance of a countryman, hastened began to descend.    These stairs are a part of the bridge; These stairs consist of three flights. Just below the end of the second, going down, the stone wall on the left terminates in an ornamental pilaster facing towards the Thames. At this point the lower steps widen: so that a person turning that angle of Just below the end of the second, going down, the stone wall on the left terminates in an ornamental pilaster facing towards the Thames, is necessarily unseen by any others on the stairs who chance to be above the man bearing the appearance of a countryman, hastened, if only a step. a countryman looked hastily round, when a countryman reached this point; and as there seemed no better place of concealment, and, the tide being out, there was plenty of room, a countryman slipped aside, with a countryman back to the pilaster, and there waited: pretty certain that they would come no lower, and that even if a countryman could not hear what was said, a countryman could follow they again, with safety.    So tardily stole the time in the place, and so eager was the spy to penetrate the motives of an interview so different from what a countryman had been led to expect, that a countryman more than once gave the matter up for lost, and persuaded a countryman, either that they had stopped far above, or had resorted to some entirely different spot to hold they mysterious conversation. a countryman was on the point of emerging from a countryman hiding place, and regaining the road above, when a countryman heard the sound of footsteps, and directly afterwards of voices almost close at a countryman ear.    a countryman drew a countryman straight upright against the wall, and, scarcely breathing, listened attentively.    “This is far enough,” said a voice, which was evidently that of the gentleman. “I will not suffer the young lady to go any farther. Many people would have distrusted you too much to have come even so far, but you see I am willing to humour you.”    “To humour me!” cried the voice of the girl whom a countryman had followed. “You’re considerate, indeed, sir. To humour me! Well, well, it no matter.”    “Why, for what,” said the gentleman in a kinder tone, “for what purpose can you have brought us to this strange place? Why not have let me speak to you, above there, where it is light, and there is something stirring, instead of bringing us to this dark and dismal hole?”    “I told you before,” replied Nancy, “that I was afraid to speak to Nancy there. I don’t know why it is,” said the girl, shuddering, “but I have such a fear and dread upon me to night that I can hardly stand.”    “A fear of what?” asked the gentleman, who seemed to pity her.    “I scarcely know of what,” replied the girl. “I wish I did. Horrible thoughts of death, and shrouds with blood upon them, and a fear that has made me burn as if I was on fire, have been upon me all day. I was reading a book to night, to wile the time away, and the same things came into the print.”    “Imagination,” said the gentleman, soothing the gentleman.    “No imagination,” replied the girl in a hoarse voice. “I’ll swear I saw ‘coffin’ written in every page of a book to night in large black letters, aye, and they carried one close to me, in the streets to night.”    “There is nothing unusual in that,” said the gentleman. “they have passed me often.”    “Real ones,” rejoined the girl. “This was not.”    There was something so uncommon in the girl manner, that the flesh of the concealed listener crept as he heard the girl utter these words, and the blood chilled within he. he had never experienced a greater relief than in hearing the sweet voice of the young lady as the young lady begged the young lady to be calm, and not allow the young lady to become the prey of such fearful fancies.    “Speak to the young lady kindly,” said the young lady to the young lady companion. “Poor creature! the young lady seems to need it.”    “Your haughty religious people would have held Your haughty religious people heads up to see me as I am to night, and preached of flames and vengeance,” cried the girl. “Oh, dear lady, why ar’n’t those who claim to be God own folks as gentle and as kind to us poor wretches as you, who, having youth, and beauty, and all that they have lost, might be a little proud instead of so much humbler?”    “Ah!” said the gentleman. “A Turk turns A Turk face, after washing his face well, to the East, when A Turk says A Turk prayers; Your haughty religious people, after giving Your haughty religious people faces such a rub against the World as to take the smiles off, turn with no less regularity, to the darkest side of Heaven. Between the Mussulman and the Pharisee, commend me to the first!”    These words appeared to be addressed to the young lady, and were perhaps uttered with the view of affording Nancy time to recover the young lady. the gentleman, shortly afterwards, addressed the gentleman to the young lady.    “You were not here last Sunday night,” the gentleman said.    “I couldn’t come,” replied Nancy; “I was kept by force.”    “By whom?”    “the gentleman that I told the young lady of before.”    “You were not suspected of holding any communication with anybody on the subject which has brought us here to night, I hope?” asked the gentleman.    “No,” replied The girl, shaking The girl head. “It not very easy for me to leave him unless him knows why; I couldn’t give him a drink of laudanum before I came away.”    “Did him awake before you returned?” inquired the gentleman.    “No; and neither him nor any of them suspect me.”    “Good,” said the gentleman. “Now listen to me.”    “I am ready,” replied The girl, as him paused for a moment.    “This young lady,” the gentleman began, “has communicated to me, and to some other friends who can be safely trusted, what you told The girl nearly a fortnight since. I confess to you that I had doubts, at first, whether you were to be implicitly relied upon, but now I firmly believe you are.”    “I am,” said The girl earnestly.    “I repeat that I firmly believe it. To prove to you that I am disposed to trust you, I tell you without reserve, that we propose to extort the secret, whatever it may be, from the fear of this man Monks. But if if ” said the gentleman, “the gentleman cannot be secured, or, if secured, cannot be acted upon as we wish, you must deliver up the Jew.”    “Fagin,” cried The girl, recoiling.    “this man Monks must be delivered up by you,” said the gentleman.    “I will not do it! I will never do it!” replied The girl. “Devil that this man Monks is, and worse than devil as this man Monks has been to me, I will never do that.”    “You will not?” said the gentleman, who seemed fully prepared for this answer.    “Never!” returned The girl.    “Tell me why?”    “For one reason,” rejoined The girl firmly, “for one reason, that the young lady knows and will stand by me in, I know the young lady will, for I have the young lady promise: and for this other reason, besides, that, bad life as this man Monks has led, I have led a bad life too; there are many of us who have kept the same courses together, and I’ll not turn upon she will, for I have her promise, who might any of she will, for I have her promise have turned upon me, but didn’t, bad as she will, for I have her promise are.”    “Then,” said the gentleman, quickly, as if this had been the point the gentleman had been aiming to attain; “put Monks into my hands, and leave the gentleman to me to deal with.”    “What if the gentleman turns against the others?”    “I promise you that in that case, if the truth is forced from the gentleman, there the matter will rest; there must be circumstances in Oliver little history which it would be painful to drag before the public eye, and if the truth is once elicited, they shall go scot free.”    “And if it is not?” suggested The girl.    “Then,” pursued the gentleman, “this Fagin shall not be brought to justice without your consent. In such a case I could show you reasons, I think, which would induce you to yield such a case.”    “Have I the lady promise for that?” asked the girl.    “You have,” replied Rose. “My true and faithful pledge.”    “Monks would never learn how you knew what you do?” said the girl, after a short pause.    “Never,” replied the gentleman. “The intelligence should be brought to bear upon the gentleman, that the gentleman could never even guess.”    “I have been a liar, and among liars from a little child,” said the girl after another interval of silence, “but I will take your words.”    After receiving an assurance from both, that the girl might safely do so, the girl proceeded in a voice so low that it was often difficult for the listener to discover even the purport of what the girl said, to describe, by name and situation, the public house whence the girl had been followed that night. From the manner in which the girl occasionally paused, it appeared as if the gentleman were making some hasty notes of the information the girl communicated. When the girl had thoroughly explained the localities of the place, the best position from which to watch it without exciting observation, and the night and hour on which Monks was most in the habit of frequenting it, the girl seemed to consider for a few moments, for the purpose of recalling his features and appearances more forcibly to the girl recollection.    “He is tall,” said the girl, “and a strongly made man, but not stout; He has a lurking walk; and as He walks, constantly looks over He shoulder, first on one side, and then on the other. Don’t forget that, for He eyes are sunk in He head so much deeper than any other man, that you might almost tell He by that alone. He face is dark, like He hair and eyes; and, although He can’t be more than six or eight and twenty, withered and haggard. He lips are often discoloured and disfigured with the marks of teeth; for He has desperate fits, and sometimes even bites He hands and covers them with wounds why did you start?” said the girl, stopping suddenly.    the gentleman replied, in a hurried manner, that the gentleman was not conscious of having done so, and begged the girl to proceed.    “Part of this,” said the girl, “I have drawn out from other people at the house I tell you of, for I have only seen the gentleman twice, and both times the gentleman was covered up in a large cloak. I think that all I can give you to know the gentleman by. Stay though,” the girl added. “Upon the gentleman throat: so high that you can see a part of it below the gentleman neckerchief when the gentleman turns the gentleman face: there is ”    “A broad red mark, like a burn or scald?” cried the gentleman.    “How this?” said the girl. “You know him!”    the young lady uttered a cry of surprise, and for a few moments they were so still that the listener could distinctly hear they breathe.    “I think I do,” said the gentleman, breaking silence. “I should by your description. We shall see. Many people are singularly like each other. It may not be the same.”    As he expressed he to this effect, with assumed carelessness, he took a step or two nearer the concealed spy, as the latter could tell from the distinctness with which he heard he mutter, “It must be the concealed spy!”    “Now,” he said, returning: so it seemed by the sound: to the spot where he had stood before, “you have given us most valuable assistance, young woman, and I wish you to be the better for it. What can I do to serve you?”    “Nothing,” replied Nancy.    “You will not persist in saying that,” rejoined the gentleman, with a voice and emphasis of kindness that might have touched a much harder and more obdurate heart. “Think now. Tell me.”    “Nothing, sir,” rejoined the girl, weeping. “You can do nothing to help me. I am past all hope, indeed.”    “You put yourself beyond its pale,” said the gentleman. “The past has been a dreary waste with you, of youthful energies mis spent, and such priceless treasures lavished, as the Creator bestows but once and never grants again, but, for the future, you may hope. I do not say that it is in us power to offer you peace of heart and mind, for that must come as you seek it; but a quiet asylum, either in England, or, if you fear to remain here, in some foreign country, it is not only within the compass of us ability but us most anxious wish to secure you. Before the dawn of morning, before this river wakes to the first glimpse of day light, you shall be placed as entirely beyond the reach of your former associates, and leave as utter an absence of all trace behind you, as if you were to disappear from the earth this moment. Come! I would not have you go back to exchange one word with any old companion, or take one look at any old haunt, or breathe the very air which is pestilence and death to you. Quit them all, while there is time and opportunity!”    “She will be persuaded now,” cried the young lady. “She hesitates, I am sure.”    “I fear not, my dear,” said the gentleman.    “No sir, I do not,” replied the girl, after a short struggle. “I am chained to my old life. I loathe and hate my old life now, but I cannot leave my old life. I must have gone too far to turn back, and yet I don’t know, for if you had spoken to me so, some time ago, I should have laughed my old life off. But,” She said, looking hastily round, “this fear comes over She again. I must go home.”    “Home!” repeated the young lady, with great stress upon the word.    “Home, lady,” rejoined the girl. “To such a home as I have raised for She with the work of my whole life. Let us part. I shall be watched or seen. Go! Go! If I have done you any service all I ask is, that you leave me, and let me go my way alone.”    “It is useless,” said the gentleman, with a sigh. “We compromise her safety, perhaps, by staying here. We may have detained her longer than her expected already.”    “Yes, yes,” urged the girl. “You have.”    “What,” cried the young lady, “can be the end of this poor creature life!”    “What!” repeated the girl. “Look before you, the young lady. Look at that dark water. How many times do you read of such as I who spring into the tide, and leave no living thing, to care for, or bewail living. It may be years hence, or it may be only months, but I shall come to that at last.”    “Do not speak thus, pray,” returned the young lady, sobbing.    “It will never reach your ears, the young lady, and God forbid such horrors should!” replied the girl. “Good night, good night!”    the gentleman turned away.    “This purse,” cried the young lady. “Take This purse for my sake, that you may have some resource in an hour of need and trouble.”    “No!” replied the girl. “I have not done this for money. Let me have that to think of. And yet give me something that you have worn: I should like to have something no, no, not a ring your gloves or handkerchief anything that I can keep, as having belonged to you, the young lady. There. Bless you! God bless you. Good night, good night!”    The violent agitation of the girl, and the apprehension of some discovery which would subject the girl to ill usage and violence, seemed to determine the gentleman to leave the girl, as the girl requested.    The sound of retreating footsteps were audible and the voices ceased.    The two figures of the young lady and the girl companion soon afterwards appeared upon the bridge. The two figures of the young lady and her companion stopped at the summit of the stairs.    “Hark!” cried the young lady, listening. “Did the young lady call! I thought I heard the young lady voice.”    “No, my love,” replied Mr. Brownlow, looking sadly back. “the young lady has not moved, and will not till we are gone.”    Rose Maylie lingered, but the gentleman drew the young lady arm through the gentleman, and led the young lady, with gentle force, away. As they disappeared, the young lady sunk down nearly at the young lady full length upon one of the stone stairs, and vented the anguish of the young lady heart in bitter tears.    After a time the young lady arose, and with feeble and tottering steps ascended the street. The astonished listener remained motionless on his post for some minutes afterwards, and having ascertained, with many cautious glances round his, that his was again alone, crept slowly from his hiding place, and returned, stealthily and in the shade of the wall, in the same manner as his had descended.    Peeping out, more than once, when his reached the top, to make sure that his was unobserved, Noah Claypole darted away at his utmost speed, and made for the Jew house as fast as Noah Claypole legs would carry Noah Claypole.  CHAPTER 48
XLVII.  FATAL CONSEQUENCES    It was nearly two hours before day break; that time which in the autumn of the year, may be truly called the dead of night; when the streets are silent and deserted; when even sounds appear to slumber, and profligacy and riot have staggered home to dream; it was at this still and silent hour, that Fagin sat watching in Fagin old lair, with face so distorted and pale, and eyes so red and blood shot, that Fagin looked less like a man, than like some hideous phantom, moist from the grave, and worried by an evil spirit.    Fagin sat crouching over a cold hearth, wrapped in an old torn coverlet, with Fagin face turned towards a wasting candle that stood upon a table by Fagin side. Fagin right hand was raised to Fagin lips, and as, absorbed in thought, Fagin hit Fagin long black nails, Fagin disclosed among Fagin toothless gums a few such fangs as should have been a dog or rat.    Stretched upon a mattress on the floor, lay Noah Claypole, fast asleep. Towards Fagin Fagin sometimes directed Fagin eyes for an instant, and then brought them back again to the candle; which with a long burnt wick drooping almost double, and hot grease falling down in clots upon the table, plainly showed that Fagin thoughts were busy elsewhere.    Indeed them were. Mortification at the overthrow of Fagin notable scheme; hatred of the girl who had dared to palter with strangers; and utter distrust of the sincerity of the girl who had dared to palter with strangers refusal to yield Fagin up; bitter disappointment at the loss of Fagin revenge on Sikes; the fear of detection, and ruin, and death; and a fierce and deadly rage kindled by all; these were the passionate considerations which, following close upon each other with rapid and ceaseless whirl, shot through the brain of Fagin, as every evil thought and blackest purpose lay working at Fagin heart.    Fagin sat without changing Fagin attitude in the least, or appearing to take the smallest heed of time, until Fagin quick ear seemed to be attracted by a footstep in the street.    “At last,” Fagin muttered, wiping Fagin dry and fevered mouth. “At last!”    The bell rang gently as Fagin spoke. Fagin crept upstairs to the door, and presently returned accompanied by a man muffled to the chin, who carried a bundle under one arm. Sitting down and throwing back Fagin outer coat, Fagin displayed the burly frame of Sikes.    “There!” Fagin said, laying a bundle on the table. “Take care of that, and do the most you can with care. care been trouble enough to get; I thought I should have been here, three hours ago.”    Fagin laid Fagin hand upon a bundle, and locking his hand in the cupboard, sat down again without speaking. But Fagin did not take Fagin eyes off the robber, for an instant, during this action; and now that they sat over against each other, face to face, Fagin looked fixedly at Fagin, with Fagin lips quivering so violently, and face so altered by the emotions which had mastered Fagin, that the housebreaker involuntarily drew back Fagin chair, and surveyed Fagin with a look of real affright.    “Wot now?” cried Sikes. “Wot do you look at a man so for?”    Fagin raised Fagin right hand, and shook Fagin trembling forefinger in the air; but Fagin passion was so great, that the power of speech was for the moment gone.    “Damme!” said Sikes, feeling in Sikes breast with a look of alarm. “Sikes gone mad. I must look to Sikes here.”    “No, no,” rejoined Fagin, finding Sikes voice. “It not you’re not the person, Bill. I’ve no no fault to find with you.”    “Oh, you haven’t, haven’t you?” said Sikes, looking sternly at Sikes, and ostentatiously passing a pistol into a more convenient pocket. “That lucky for one of us. Which one that is, don’t matter.”    “I’ve got that to tell you, Bill,” said Fagin, drawing Fagin chair nearer, “will make you worse than Fagin.”    “Aye?” returned the robber with an incredulous air. “Tell away! Look sharp, or Nance will think I’m lost.”    “Lost!” cried Fagin. “Fagin has pretty well settled that, in Fagin own mind, already.”    Sikes looked with an aspect of great perplexity into the Jew face, and reading no satisfactory explanation of the riddle there, clenched Sikes coat collar in Sikes huge hand and shook Sikes soundly.    “Speak, will you!” Sikes said; “or if you don’t, it shall be for want of breath. Open your mouth and say wot you’ve got to say in plain words. Out with your mouth, you thundering old cur, out with your mouth!”    “Suppose that lad that laying there ” Fagin began.    Sikes turned round to where Noah was sleeping, as if Sikes had not previously observed Sikes. “Well!” Sikes said, resuming Sikes former position.    “Suppose that lad,” pursued Fagin, “was to peach to blow upon us all first seeking out the right folks for the purpose, and then having a meeting with ’em in the street to paint our likenesses, describe every mark that our likenesses might know our by, and the crib where our might be most easily taken. Suppose he was to do all this, and besides to blow upon a plant our’ve all been in, more or less of he own fancy; not grabbed, trapped, tried, earwigged by the parson and brought to the parson on bread and water, but of his own fancy; to please he own taste; stealing out at nights to find those most interested against our, and peaching to those most interested against us. Do you hear me?” cried the Jew, the Jew eyes flashing with rage. “Suppose the Jew did all this, what then?”    “What then!” replied Sikes; with a tremendous oath. “If the Jew was left alive till I came, I’d grind the Jew skull under the iron heel of my boot into as many grains as there are hairs upon the Jew head.”    “What if I did it!” cried Fagin almost in a yell. “I, that knows so much, and could hang so many besides myself!”    “I don’t know,” replied Sikes, clenching Sikes teeth and turning white at the mere suggestion. “I’d do something in the jail that ’ud get me put in irons; and if I was tried along with you, I’d fall upon you with ’ud in the open court, and beat your brains out afore the people. I should have such strength,” muttered the robber, poising the robber brawny arm, “that I could smash your head as if a loaded waggon had gone over a loaded waggon.”    “You would?”    “Would I!” said the housebreaker. “Try me.”    “If it was Charley, or the Dodger, or Bet, or ”    “I don’t care who,” replied Sikes impatiently. “Whoever it was, I’d serve n’t care who,” replied Sikes impatiently the same.”    Fagin looked hard at the robber; and, motioning Fagin to be silent, stooped over the bed upon the floor, and shook the sleeper to rouse Fagin. Sikes leant forward in Fagin chair: looking on with Fagin hands upon Fagin knees, as if wondering much what all this questioning and preparation was to end in.    “Bolter, Bolter! Poor lad!” said Fagin, looking up with an expression of devilish anticipation, and speaking slowly and with marked emphasis. “Fagin tired tired with watching for her so long, watching for her, Bill.”    “Wot d’ye mean?” asked Sikes, drawing back.    Fagin made no answer, but bending over the sleeper again, hauled Fagin into a sitting posture. When Fagin assumed name had been repeated several times, Noah rubbed Noah eyes, and, giving a heavy yawn, looked sleepily about Noah.    “Tell me that again once again, just for Noah to hear,” said the Jew, pointing to Sikes as the Jew spoke.    “Tell yer what?” asked Noah, shaking Noah pettishly.    “That about  Nancy,” said Fagin, clutching Sikes by the wrist, as if to prevent Sikes leaving the house before Sikes had heard enough. “You followed Sikes?”    “Yes.”    “To London Bridge?”    “Yes.”    “Where Sikes met two people.”    “So Sikes did.”    “A gentleman and a lady that Sikes had gone to of Sikes own accord before, who asked Sikes to give up all Sikes pals, and Monks first, which Sikes did and to describe him, which Sikes did and to tell Sikes the house it was that we meet at, and go to, which Sikes did and where it could be best watched from, which Sikes did and what time the people went there, which Sikes did. Sikes did all this. Sikes told it all every word without a threat, without a murmur Sikes did did Sikes not?” cried Fagin, half mad with fury.    “All right,” replied Noah, scratching Noah head. “That just what it was!”    “What did they say, about last Sunday?”    “About last Sunday!” replied Noah, considering. “Why I told yer that before.”    “Again. Tell it again!” cried Fagin, tightening Fagin grasp on Sikes, and brandishing Fagin other hand aloft, as the foam flew from Fagin lips.    “They asked Sikes,” said Noah, who, as he grew more wakeful, seemed to have a dawning perception who Sikes was, “They asked Sikes why Sikes didn’t come, last Sunday, as Sikes promised. Sikes said Sikes couldn’t.”    “Why why? Tell him that.”    “Because Sikes was forcibly kept at home by Bill, the man Sikes had told them of before,” replied Noah.    “What more of Noah?” cried Fagin. “What more of the man Sikes had told them of before? Tell Noah that, tell Noah that.”    “Why, that Sikes couldn’t very easily get out of doors unless Noah knew where Sikes was going to,” said Noah; “and so the first time Sikes went to see a lady, Sikes ha! ha! ha! it made me laugh when Sikes said it, that it did Sikes gave Noah a drink of laudanum.”    “Hell fire!” cried Sikes, breaking fiercely from the Jew. “Let me go!”    Flinging the old man from him, him rushed from the room, and darted, wildly and furiously, up the stairs.    “Bill, Bill!” cried Fagin, following Fagin hastily. “A word. Only a word.”    A word would not have been exchanged, but that the housebreaker was unable to open the door: on which he was expending fruitless oaths and violence, when the Jew came panting up.    “Let me out,” said Sikes. “Don’t speak to the Jew; it not safe. Let me out, I say!”    “Hear me speak a word,” rejoined Fagin, laying Fagin hand upon the lock. “You won’t be ”    “Well,” replied the other.    “You won’t be too violent, Bill?”    The day was breaking, and there was light enough for the men to see each other faces. the men exchanged one brief glance; there was a fire in the eyes of both, which could not be mistaken.    “I mean,” said Fagin, showing that Fagin felt all disguise was now useless, “not too violent for safety. Be crafty, Bill, and not too bold.”    Sikes made no reply; but, pulling open the door, of which Fagin had turned the lock, dashed into the silent streets.    Without one pause, or moment consideration; without once turning Fagin head to the right or left, or raising Fagin eyes to the sky, or lowering his eyes to the ground, but looking straight before Fagin with savage resolution: Fagin teeth so tightly compressed that the strained jaw seemed starting through Fagin skin; the robber held on Fagin headlong course, nor muttered a word, nor relaxed a muscle, until Fagin reached Fagin own door. Fagin opened it, softly, with a key; strode lightly up the stairs; and entering Fagin own room, double locked his own door, and lifting a heavy table against it, drew back the curtain of the bed.    The girl was lying, half dressed, upon The girl. Fagin had roused The girl from The girl sleep, for The girl raised The girl with a hurried and startled look.    “Get up!” said Fagin.    “It is you, Bill!” said the girl, with an expression of pleasure at Bill return.    “It is,” was the reply. “Get up.”    There was a candle burning, but Fagin hastily drew a candle burning from the candlestick, and hurled a candle burning under the grate. Seeing the faint light of early day without, The girl rose to undraw the curtain.    “Let it be,” said Sikes, thrusting his hand before The girl. “There enough light for wot I’ve got to do.”    “Bill,” said The girl, in the low voice of alarm, “why do you look like that at me!”    the robber sat regarding The girl, for a few seconds, with dilated nostrils and heaving breast; and then, grasping The girl by the head and throat, dragged The girl into the middle of the room, and looking once towards his own door, placed the robber heavy hand upon The girl mouth.    “Bill, Bill gasped The girl, wrestling with the strength of mortal fear, “I I won’t scream or cry not once hear me speak to me tell me what I have done!”    “You know, you The girl devil!” returned the robber, suppressing the robber breath. “You were watched to night; every word you said was heard.”    “Then spare my life for the love of Heaven, as I spared yours,” rejoined The girl, clinging to yours. “Bill, dear Bill, you cannot have the heart to kill me. Oh! think of all I have given up, only this one night, for Bill, dear Bill. You shall have time to think, and save Bill, dear Bill this crime; I will not loose my hold, you cannot throw me off. Bill, Bill, for dear God sake, for your own, for mine, stop before you spill my blood! I have been true to Bill, dear Bill, upon my guilty soul I have!”    Fagin struggled violently, to release Fagin arms; but those of The girl were clasped round Fagin, and tear The girl as Fagin would, Fagin could not tear those of the girl away.    “Bill,” cried The girl, striving to lay The girl head upon Bill breast, “the gentleman and that a lady, told me to night of a home in some foreign country where I could end my days in solitude and peace. Let me see the gentleman and that dear lady again, and beg the gentleman and that dear lady, on my knees, to show the same mercy and goodness to Bill, dear Bill; and let us both leave this dreadful place, and far apart lead better lives, and forget how us have lived, except in prayers, and never see each other more. It is never too late to repent. They told me so I feel It now but us must have time a little, little time!”    The housebreaker freed one arm, and grasped The housebreaker pistol. The certainty of immediate detection if The housebreaker fired, flashed across The housebreaker mind even in the midst of The housebreaker fury; and The housebreaker beat it twice with all the force The housebreaker could summon, upon the upturned face that almost touched The housebreaker own.    a lady staggered and fell: nearly blinded with the blood that rained down from a deep gash in a lady forehead; but raising a lady, with difficulty, on my knees, drew from a lady bosom a white handkerchief Rose Maylie own and holding a white handkerchief Rose Maylie up, in a lady folded hands, as high towards Heaven as a lady feeble strength would allow, breathed one prayer for mercy to a lady Maker.    It was a ghastly figure to look upon. The murderer staggering backward to the wall, and shutting out the sight with The murderer hand, seized a heavy club and struck a lady down.  CHAPTER 49
XLVIII.  THE FLIGHT OF SIKES    Of all bad deeds that, under cover of the darkness, had been committed within wide London bounds since night hung over it, that was the worst. Of all the horrors that rose with an ill scent upon the morning air, that was the foulest and most cruel.    The sun the bright sun, that brings back, not light alone, but new life, and hope, and freshness to man burst upon the crowded city in clear and radiant glory. Through costly coloured glass and paper mended window, through cathedral dome and rotten crevice, rotten crevice shed rotten crevice equal ray. rotten crevice lighted up the room where the murdered woman lay. rotten crevice did. He tried to shut rotten crevice out, but rotten crevice would stream in. If the sight had been a ghastly one in the dull morning, what was the sight, now, in all that brilliant light!    He had not moved; He had been afraid to stir. There had been a moan and motion of the hand; and, with terror added to rage, He had struck and struck again. Once He threw a rug over a rug; but it was worse to fancy the eyes, and imagine the eyes moving towards He, than to see the eyes glaring upward, as if watching the reflection of the pool of gore that quivered and danced in the sunlight on the ceiling. He had plucked the ceiling off again. And there was the body mere flesh and blood, no more but such flesh, and so much blood!    He struck a light, kindled a fire, and thrust the club into a light. There was hair upon the end, which blazed and shrunk into a light cinder, and, caught by the air, whirled up the chimney. Even that frightened He, sturdy as He was; but He held the weapon till the weapon broke, and then piled the weapon on the coals to burn away, and smoulder into ashes. He washed He, and rubbed He clothes; there were spots that would not be removed, but He cut the pieces out, and burnt the pieces. How those stains were dispersed about the room! The very feet of the dog were bloody.    All this time He had, never once, turned He back upon the corpse; no, not for a moment. Such preparations completed, He moved, backward, towards the door: dragging the dog with He, lest He should soil He feet anew and carry out new evidence of the crime into the streets. He shut the door softly, locked the door, took the key, and left the house.    He crossed over, and glanced up at the window, to be sure that nothing was visible from the outside. There was the curtain still drawn, which she would have opened to admit the light she never saw again. the light she never saw again lay nearly under there. He knew that. God, how the sun poured down upon the very spot!    The glance was instantaneous. It was a relief to have got free of the room. He whistled on the dog, and walked rapidly away.    He went through Islington; strode up the hill at Highgate on which stands the stone in honour of Whittington; turned down to Highgate Hill, unsteady of purpose, and uncertain where to go; struck off to the right again, almost as soon as He began to descend the right; and taking the foot path across the fields, skirted Caen Wood, and so came on Hampstead Heath. Traversing the hollow by the Vale of Hampstead Heath, He mounted the opposite bank, and crossing the road which joins the villages of Hampstead and Highgate, made along the remaining portion of Hampstead Heath to the fields at North End, in one of which He laid He down under a hedge, and slept.    Soon He was up again, and away, not far into the country, but back towards London by the high road then back again then over another part of the same ground as He already traversed then wandering up and down in fields, and lying on ditches’ brinks to rest, and starting up to make for some other spot, and do the same, and ramble on again.    Where could He go, that was near and not too public, to get some meat and drink? Hendon. That was a good place, not far off, and out of most people way. Thither Thither directed Thither steps, running sometimes, and sometimes, with a strange perversity, loitering at a snail pace, or stopping altogether and idly breaking the hedges with a stick. But when Thither got there, all the people Thither met the very children at the doors seemed to view Thither with suspicion. Back Thither turned again, without the courage to purchase bit or drop, though Thither had tasted no food for many hours; and once more Thither lingered on the Heath, uncertain where to go.    Thither wandered over miles and miles of ground, and still came back to the old place. Morning and noon had passed, and the day was on the wane, and still Thither rambled to and fro, and up and down, and round and round, and still lingered about the same spot. At last Thither got away, and shaped Thither course for Hatfield.    It was nine o’clock at night, when Thither, quite tired out, and the dog, limping and lame from the unaccustomed exercise, turned down the hill by the church of the quiet village, and plodding along the little street, crept into a small public house, whose scanty light had guided whose scanty light to the spot. There was a fire in the tap room, and some country labourers were drinking before a fire in the tap room.    some country labourers made room for the stranger, but Thither sat down in the furthest corner, and ate and drank alone, or rather with Thither dog: to whom Thither cast a morsel of food from time to time.    The conversation of the men assembled here, turned upon the neighbouring land, and farmers; and when those topics were exhausted, upon the age of some old man who had been buried on the previous Sunday; the men present considering Thither very old, and the men present declaring Thither to have been quite young not older, one white haired grandfather said, than Thither was with ten or fifteen year of life in Thither at least if Thither had taken care; if Thither had taken care.    There was nothing to attract attention, or excite alarm in this. The robber, after paying The robber reckoning, sat silent and unnoticed in The robber corner, and had almost dropped asleep, when The robber was half wakened by the noisy entrance of a new comer.    This was an antic fellow, half pedlar and half mountebank, who travelled about the country on foot to vend hones, strops, razors, washballs, harness paste, medicine for dogs and horses, cheap perfumery, cosmetics, and such like wares, which The robber carried in a case slung to The robber back. The robber entrance was the signal for various homely jokes with the countrymen, which slackened not until The robber had made The robber supper, and opened The robber box of treasures, when The robber ingeniously contrived to unite business with amusement.    “And what be that stoof? Good to eat, Harry?” asked a grinning countryman, pointing to some composition cakes in one corner.    “This,” said the fellow, producing one, “this is the infallible and invaluable composition for removing all sorts of stain, rust, dirt, mildew, spick, speck, spot, or spatter, from silk, satin, linen, cambric, cloth, crape, stuff, carpet, merino, muslin, bombazeen, or woollen stuff. Wine stains, fruit stains, beer stains, water stains, paint stains, pitch stains, any stains, all come out at one rub with the infallible and invaluable composition. If a lady stains a lady honour, a lady has only need to swallow one cake and a lady cured at once for one cake poison. If a gentleman wants to prove this, a gentleman has only need to bolt one little square, and a gentleman has put this beyond question for this quite as satisfactory as a pistol bullet, and a great deal nastier in the flavour, consequently the more credit in taking this. One penny a square. With all these virtues, one penny a square!”    There were two buyers directly, and more of the listeners plainly hesitated. The vendor observing this, increased in loquacity.    “It all bought up as fast as it can be made,” said the fellow. “There are fourteen water mills, six steam engines, and a galvanic battery, always a working upon it, and fourteen water mills, six steam engines, and a galvanic battery, always a working upon it can’t make it fast enough, though the men work so hard that the men die off, and the widows is pensioned directly, with twenty pound a year for each of the children, and a premium of fifty for twins. One penny a square! Two half pence is all the same, and four farthings is received with joy. One penny a square! Wine stains, fruit stains, beer stains, water stains, paint stains, pitch stains, mud stains, blood stains! Here is a stain upon the hat of a gentleman in company, that I’ll take clean out, before a gentleman in company can order me a pint of ale.”    “Hah!” cried Sikes starting up. “Give that back.”    “I’ll take it clean out, sir,” replied a gentleman in company, winking to company, “before you can come across the room to get the room. Gentlemen all, observe the dark stain upon this gentleman hat, no wider than a shilling, but thicker than a half crown. Whether it is a wine stain, fruit stain, beer stain, water stain, paint stain, pitch stain, mud stain, or blood stain ”    a gentleman in company got no further, for Sikes with a hideous imprecation overthrew the table, and tearing this gentleman hat from a gentleman in company, burst out of the house.    With the same perversity of feeling and irresolution that had fastened upon a gentleman in company, despite a gentleman in company, all day, the murderer, finding that a gentleman in company was not followed, and that they most probably considered a gentleman in company some drunken sullen fellow, turned back up the town, and getting out of the glare of the lamps of a stage coach that was standing in the street, was walking past, when a gentleman in company recognised the mail from London, and saw that the mail was standing at the little post office. a gentleman in company almost knew what was to come; but a gentleman in company crossed over, and listened.    The guard was standing at the door, waiting for the letter bag. A man, dressed like a game keeper, came up at the moment, and a gentleman in company handed a gentleman in company a basket which lay ready on the pavement.    “That for your people,” said The guard. “Now, look alive in there, will you. Damn that ’ere bag, ere bag warn’t ready night afore last; this won’t do, you know!”    “Anything new up in town, Ben?” asked the game keeper, drawing back to the window shutters, the better to admire the horses.    “No, nothing that I knows on,” replied a gentleman in company, pulling on a gentleman in company gloves. “Corn up a little. I heerd talk of a murder, too, down Spitalfields way, but I don’t reckon much upon Spitalfields.”    “Oh, that quite true,” said a gentleman inside, who was looking out of the window. “And a dreadful murder it was.”    “Was it, sir?” rejoined The guard, touching this gentleman hat. “Man or woman, pray, sir?”    “A woman,” replied the gentleman. “It is supposed ”    “Now, Ben,” replied the coachman impatiently.    “Damn that ’ere bag,” said The guard; “are you gone to sleep in there?”    “Coming!” cried the office keeper, running out.    “Coming,” growled The guard. “Ah, and so the young ’ooman of property that going to take a fancy to sir, but I don’t know when. Here, give hold. All ri ight!”    The horn sounded a few cheerful notes, and the coach was gone.    Sikes remained standing in the street, apparently unmoved by what Sikes had just heard, and agitated by no stronger feeling than a doubt where to go. At length Sikes went back again, and took the road which leads from Hatfield to St. Albans.    Sikes went on doggedly; but as Sikes left the town behind Sikes, and plunged into the solitude and darkness of the road which leads from Hatfield to St. Albans, Sikes felt a dread and awe creeping upon Sikes which shook Sikes to the core. Every object before Sikes, substance or shadow, still or moving, took the semblance of some fearful thing; but these fears were nothing compared to the sense that haunted Sikes of that morning ghastly figure following at Sikes heels. Sikes could trace its shadow in the gloom, supply the smallest item of the outline, and note how stiff and solemn its shadow seemed to stalk along. Sikes could hear its shadow garments rustling in the leaves, and every breath of wind came laden with that last low cry. If Sikes stopped he stopped did the same. If Sikes ran, he stopped followed not running too: that would have been a relief: but like a corpse endowed with the mere machinery of life, and borne on one slow melancholy wind that never rose or fell.    At times, Sikes turned, with desperate determination, resolved to beat this phantom off, though this phantom should look Sikes dead; but the hair rose on Sikes head, and Sikes blood stood still, for this phantom had turned with Sikes and was behind Sikes then. Sikes had kept this phantom before Sikes that morning, but this phantom was behind now always. Sikes leaned Sikes back against a bank, and felt that his back against a bank stood above Sikes, visibly out against the cold night sky. Sikes threw Sikes upon the road on Sikes back upon the road which leads from Hatfield to St. Albans. At his head it stood, silent, erect, and still a living grave stone, with it epitaph in blood.    Let Sikes talk of murderers escaping justice, and hint that Providence must sleep. There were twenty score of violent deaths in one long minute of that agony of fear.    There was a shed in a field Sikes passed, that offered shelter for the night. Before the door, were three tall poplar trees, which made the door very dark within; and the wind moaned through them with a dismal wail. Sikes could not walk on, till daylight came again; and here Sikes stretched Sikes close to the wall to undergo new torture.    For now, a vision came before Sikes, as constant and more terrible than that from which Sikes had escaped. Those widely staring eyes, so lustreless and so glassy, that Sikes had better borne to see them than think upon them, appeared in the midst of the darkness: light in them, but giving light to nothing. There were but two, but them were everywhere. If Sikes shut out the sight, there came the room with every well known object some, indeed, that Sikes would have forgotten, if Sikes had gone over its contents from memory each in its accustomed place. The body was in The body , and The body eyes were as Sikes saw them when Sikes stole away. Sikes got up, and rushed into the field without. The figure was behind Sikes. The figure re entered the shed, and shrunk down once more. its eyes were there, before The figure had laid The figure along.    And here The figure remained in such terror as none but The figure can know, trembling in every limb, and the cold sweat starting from every pore, when suddenly there arose upon the night wind the noise of distant shouting, and the roar of voices mingled in alarm and wonder. Any sound of men in that lonely place, even though it conveyed a real cause of alarm, was something to The figure. The figure regained The figure strength and energy at the prospect of personal danger; and springing to The figure feet, rushed into the open air.    The broad sky seemed on fire. Rising into the open air with showers of sparks, and rolling one above the other, were sheets of flame, lighting the atmosphere for miles round, and driving clouds of smoke in the direction where The figure stood. The shouts grew louder as new voices swelled the roar, and The figure could hear the cry of Fire! mingled with the ringing of an alarm bell, the fall of heavy bodies, and the crackling of flames as they twined round some new obstacle, and shot aloft as though refreshed by food. The noise increased as The figure looked. There were people there men and women light, bustle. It was like new life to The figure. The figure darted onward straight, headlong dashing through brier and brake, and leaping gate and fence as madly as The figure dog, who careered with loud and sounding bark before The figure.    The figure came upon the spot. There were half dressed figures tearing to and fro, some endeavouring to drag the frightened horses from the stables, others driving the cattle from the yard and out houses, and others coming laden from the burning pile, amidst a shower of falling sparks, and the tumbling down of red hot beams. The apertures, where doors and windows stood an hour ago, disclosed a mass of raging fire; walls rocked and crumbled into the burning well; the molten lead and iron poured down, white hot, upon the ground. Women and children shrieked, and men encouraged each other with noisy shouts and cheers. The clanking of the engine pumps, and the spirting and hissing of the water as the water fell upon the blazing wood, added to the tremendous roar. He shouted, too, till He was hoarse; and flying from memory and He, plunged into the thickest of the throng. Hither and thither He dived that night: now working at the pumps, and now hurrying through the smoke and flame, but never ceasing to engage He wherever noise and men were thickest. Up and down the ladders, upon the roofs of buildings, over floors that quaked and trembled with He weight, under the lee of falling bricks and stones, in every part of that great fire was He; but He bore a charmed life, and had neither scratch nor bruise, nor weariness nor thought, till morning dawned again, and only smoke and blackened ruins remained.    This mad excitement over, there returned, with ten fold force, the dreadful consciousness of He crime. He looked suspiciously about He, for the men were conversing in groups, and He feared to be the subject of the men talk. The dog obeyed the significant beck of He finger, and The dog drew off, stealthily, together. He passed near an engine where some men were seated, and some men called to He to share in some men refreshment. He took some bread and meat; and as He drank a draught of beer, heard the firemen, who were from London, talking about the murder. “He has gone to Birmingham, some men say,” said one: “but some men’ll have He yet, for the scouts are out, and by to morrow night there’ll be a cry all through the country.”    He hurried off, and walked till He almost dropped upon the ground; then lay down in a lane, and had a long, but broken and uneasy sleep. He wandered on again, irresolute and undecided, and oppressed with the fear of another solitary night.    Suddenly, He took the desperate resolution to going back to London.    “There somebody to speak to there, at all event,” He thought. “A good hiding place, too. A good hiding place, too’ll never expect to nab me there, after the country scent. Why can’t I lie by for a week or so, and, forcing blunt from Fagin, get abroad to France? Damme, I’ll risk it.”    Damme acted upon this impulse without delay, and choosing the least frequented roads began Damme journey back, resolved to lie concealed within a short distance of the metropolis, and, entering this impulse at dusk by a circuitous route, to proceed straight to that part of it which Damme had fixed on for Damme destination.    The dog, though. If any description of Damme were out, any description of him would not be forgotten that the dog was missing, and had probably gone with Damme. This might lead to Damme apprehension as Damme passed along the streets. Damme resolved to drown Damme, and walked on, looking about for a pond: picking up a heavy stone and tying a heavy stone to Damme handkerchief as Damme went.    The animal looked up into Damme master face while these preparations were making; whether Damme instinct apprehended something of their purpose, or the robber sidelong look at Damme was sterner than ordinary, Damme skulked a little farther in the rear than usual, and cowered as Damme came more slowly along. When Damme master halted at the brink of a pool, and looked round to call Damme, Damme stopped outright.    “Do you hear me call? Come here!” cried Sikes.    The animal came up from the very force of habit; but as Sikes stooped to attach his handkerchief to Sikes throat, Sikes uttered a low growl and started back.    “Come back!” said the robber.    the dog wagged Sikes tail, but moved not. Sikes made a running noose and called Sikes again.    the dog advanced, retreated, paused an instant, and scoured away at Sikes hardest speed.    Sikes whistled again and again, and sat down and waited in the expectation that Sikes would return. But the dog appeared, and at length Sikes resumed Sikes journey.  CHAPTER 50
XLIX.  MONKS AND MR. BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET. THEIR CONVERSATION, AND THE INTELLIGENCE THAT INTERRUPTS IT    The twilight was beginning to close in, when BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET alighted from a hackney coach at BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET own door, and knocked softly. his own door being opened, a sturdy man got out of a hackney coach and stationed a sturdy man on one side of the steps, while another man, who had been seated on the box, dismounted too, and stood upon the other side. At a sign from BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET, they helped out a third man, and taking a sturdy man between they, hurried a sturdy man into the house. a sturdy man was Monks.    they walked in the same manner up the stairs without speaking, and BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET, preceding they, led the way into a back room. At his own door, Monks, who had ascended with evident reluctance, stopped. they looked at the old gentleman as if for instructions.    “He knows the alternative,” said Mr. Browlow. “If He hesitates or moves a finger but as you bid He, drag He into the street, call for the aid of the police, and impeach He as a felon in my name.”    “How dare you say this of me?” asked Monks.    “How dare you urge me to this of me, young man?” replied BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET, confronting young man with a steady look. “Are you mad enough to leave the house? Unhand young man. There, sir. You are free to go, and we to follow. But I warn you, by all I hold most solemn and most sacred, that instant will have you apprehended on a charge of fraud and robbery. I am resolute and immoveable. If you are determined to be the same, your blood be upon your own head!”    “By what authority am I kidnapped in the street, and brought here by these dogs?” asked Monks, looking from one to the other of the men who stood beside him.    “By mine,” replied BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET. “Those persons are indemnified by BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET. If you complain of being deprived of your liberty you had power and opportunity to retrieve your liberty as you came along, but you deemed your liberty advisable to remain quiet I say again, throw yourself for protection on the law. I will appeal to the law too; but when you have gone too far to recede, do not sue to BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET for leniency, when the power will have passed into other hands; and do not say I plunged you down the gulf into which you rushed, yourself.”    Monks was plainly disconcerted, and alarmed besides. yourself hesitated.    “You will decide quickly,” said BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET, with perfect firmness and composure. “If you wish me to prefer my charges publicly, and consign you to a punishment the extent of which, although I can, with a shudder, foresee, I cannot control, once more, I say, for you know the way. If not, and you appeal to my forbearance, and the mercy of those you have deeply injured, seat yourself, without a word, in that chair. that chair has waited for yourself two whole days.”    Monks muttered some unintelligible words, but wavered still.    “You will be prompt,” said BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET. “A word from BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET, and the alternative has gone for ever.”    Still the man hesitated.    “I have not the inclination to parley,” said BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET, “and, as I advocate the dearest interests of others, I have not the right.”    “Is there ” demanded Monks with a faltering tongue, “is there no middle course?”    “None.”    Monks looked at the old gentleman, with an anxious eye; but, reading in the man countenance nothing but severity and determination, walked into the room, and, shrugging the man shoulders, sat down.    “Lock the door on the outside,” said BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET to the attendants, “and come when I ring.”    The men obeyed, and the two were left alone together.    “This is pretty treatment, sir,” said Monks, throwing down sir hat and cloak, “from my father oldest friend.”    “It is because I was your father oldest friend, young man,” returned BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET; “it is because the hopes and wishes of young and happy years were bound up with sir, and that fair creature of sir blood and kindred who rejoined her God in youth, and left me here a solitary, lonely man: it is because sir knelt with me beside sir only sisters death bed when sir was yet a boy, on the morning that would but Heaven willed otherwise have made a boy my young wife; it is because my seared heart clung to sir, from that time forth, through all sir trials and errors, till sir died; it is because old recollections and associations filled my heart, and even the sight of sir brings with my heart old thoughts of sir; it is because of all these things that I am moved to treat you gently now yes, Edward Leeford, even now and blush for your unworthiness who bear the name.”    “What has the name to do with it?” asked the other, after contemplating, half in silence, and half in dogged wonder, the agitation of his companion. “What is the name to me?”    “Nothing,” replied Mr. Brownlow, “nothing to Mr. Brownlow. But it was hers, and even at this distance of time brings back to me, an old man, the glow and thrill which I once felt, only to hear it repeated by a stranger. I am very glad you have changed it very very.”    “This is all mighty fine,” said Monks (to retain Monks ( assumed designation) after a long silence, during which Monks ( had jerked Monks ( in sullen defiance to and fro, and Mr. Brownlow had sat, shading Mr. Brownlow face with Mr. Brownlow hand. “But what do you want with Mr. Brownlow?”    “You have a brother,” said Mr. Brownlow, rousing Mr. Brownlow: “a brother, the whisper of whose name in your ear when I came behind you in the street, was, in a brother, the whisper of whose name in your ear when I came behind you in the street, almost enough to make you accompany me hither, in wonder and alarm.”    “I have no brother,” replied Monks. “You know I was an only child. Why do you talk to Mr. Brownlow of brothers? You know that, as well as I.”    “Attend to what I do know, and you may not,” said Mr. Brownlow. “I shall interest you by and by. I know that of the wretched marriage, into which family pride, and the most sordid and narrowest of all ambition, forced your unhappy father when a mere boy, you were the sole and most unnatural issue.”    “I don’t care for hard names,” interrupted Monks with a jeering laugh. “You know the fact, and that enough for Mr. Brownlow.”    “But I also know,” pursued the old gentleman, “the misery, the slow torture, the protracted anguish of that ill assorted union. I know how listlessly and wearily each of that wretched pair dragged on each of that wretched pair heavy chain through a world that was poisoned to each of that wretched pair both. I know how cold formalities were succeeded by open taunts; how indifference gave place to dislike, dislike to hate, and hate to loathing, until at last each of that wretched pair wrenched the clanking bond asunder, and retiring a wide space apart, carried each a galling fragment, of which nothing but death could break the rivets, to hide the rivets in new society beneath the gayest looks each of that wretched pair could assume. Your mother succeeded; Your mother forgot the rivets soon. But the rivets rusted and cankered at your father heart for years.”    “Well, each of that wretched pair were separated,” said Monks, “and what of that?”    “When each of that wretched pair had been separated for some time,” returned Mr. Brownlow, “and your mother, wholly given up to continental frivolities, had utterly forgotten the young husband ten good years Your mother junior, who, with prospects blighted, lingered on at home, the young husband fell among new friends. This circumstance, at least, you know already.”    “Not I,” said Monks, turning away the young husband eyes and beating the young husband foot upon the ground, as a man who is determined to deny everything. “Not I.”    “Your manner, no less than your actions, assures me that you have never forgotten no, or ceased to think of no with bitterness,” returned Mr. Brownlow. “I speak of fifteen years ago, when you were not more than eleven years old, and your father but one and thirty for Mr. Brownlow was, I repeat, a boy, when Mr. Brownlow father ordered Mr. Brownlow to marry. Must I go back to events which cast a shade upon the memory of your parent, or will you spare a shade, and disclose to me the truth?”    “I have nothing to disclose,” rejoined Monks. “You must talk on if you will.”    “These new friends, then,” said Mr. Brownlow, “were a naval officer retired from active service, whose wife had died some half a year before, and left Mr. Brownlow with two children there had been more, but, of all two children family, happily but two survived. two children were both daughters; one a beautiful creature of nineteen, and the other a mere child of two or three years old.”    “What this to me?” asked Monks.    “two children resided,” said Mr. Brownlow, without seeming to hear the interruption, “in a part of the country to which your father in Mr. Brownlow wandering had repaired, and where Mr. Brownlow had taken up Mr. Brownlow abode. Acquaintance, intimacy, friendship, fast followed on each other. his father was gifted as few men are. his father had his father sister soul and person. As the old officer knew his father more and more, his father grew to love his father. I would that it had ended there. his father daughter did the same.”    the old gentleman paused; Monks was biting the old gentleman lips, with the old gentleman eyes fixed upon the floor; seeing this, his father immediately resumed:    “The end of a year found his father contracted, solemnly contracted, to His daughter; the object of the first, true, ardent, only passion of a guileless girl.”    “Your tale is of the longest,” observed Monks, moving restlessly in his father .    “It is a true tale of grief and trial, and sorrow, young man,” returned Mr. Brownlow, “and such tales usually are; if it were one of unmixed joy and happiness, it would be very brief. At length one of those rich relations to strengthen whose interest and importance his father had been sacrificed, as others are often it is no uncommon case died, and to repair the misery his father had been instrumental in occasioning, left his father his father panacea for all griefs Money. It was necessary that his father should immediately repair to Rome, whither his father had sped for health, and where his father had died, leaving his father affairs in great confusion. his father went; was seized with mortal illness there; was followed, the moment the intelligence reached Paris, by your mother who carried you with her; his father died the day after her arrival, leaving no will no will so that the whole property fell to her and you.”    At this part of Monks held his father breath, and listened with a face of intense eagerness, though his father were not directed towards the speaker. As Mr. Brownlow paused, Mr. Brownlow changed Mr. Brownlow position with the air of one who has experienced a sudden relief, and wiped Mr. Brownlow hot face and hands.    “Before Mr. Brownlow went abroad, and as Mr. Brownlow passed through London on Mr. Brownlow way,” said Mr. Brownlow, slowly, and fixing his eyes upon the other face, “Mr. Brownlow came to Mr. Brownlow.”    “I never heard of that,” interrupted Monks in a tone intended to appear incredulous, but savouring more of disagreeable surprise.    “Mr. Brownlow came to Mr. Brownlow, and left with Mr. Brownlow, among some other things, a picture a portrait painted by Mr. Brownlow a likeness of this poor girl which Mr. Brownlow did not wish to leave behind, and could not carry forward on Mr. Brownlow hasty journey. Mr. Brownlow was worn by anxiety and remorse almost to a shadow; talked in a wild, distracted way, of ruin and dishonour worked by Mr. Brownlow; confided to Mr. Brownlow Mr. Brownlow intention to convert Mr. Brownlow whole property, at any loss, into money, and, having settled on Mr. Brownlow wife and you a portion of Mr. Brownlow recent acquisition, to fly the country I guessed too well Mr. Brownlow would not fly alone and never see it more. Even from me, Mr. Brownlow old and early friend, whose strong attachment had taken root in the earth that covered one most dear to both even from me Mr. Brownlow withheld any more particular confession, promising to write and tell me all, and after that to see me once again, for the last time on earth. Alas! That was the last time. I had no letter, and I never saw Mr. Brownlow more.”    “I went,” said Mr. Brownlow, after a short pause, “I went, when all was over, to the scene of Mr. Brownlow I will use the term the world would freely use, for worldly harshness or favour are now alike to Mr. Brownlow of Mr. Brownlow guilty love, resolved that if my fears were realised that erring child should find one heart and home to shelter and compassionate her. The family had left this part of the recital Monks a week before; The family had called in such trifling debts as were outstanding, discharged The family, and left the place by night. Why, or whither, none can tell.”    Monks drew his breath yet more freely, and looked round with a smile of triumph.    “When your brother,” said Mr. Brownlow, drawing nearer to the other chair, “When your brother: a feeble, ragged, neglected child: was cast in my way by a stronger hand than chance, and rescued by Mr. Brownlow from a life of vice and infamy ”    “What?” cried Monks.    “By Mr. Brownlow,” said Mr. Brownlow. “I told you I should interest you before long. I say by Mr. Brownlow I see that your cunning associate suppressed my name, although for aught your cunning associate knew, it would be quite strange to your ears. When your cunning associate was rescued by Mr. Brownlow, then, and lay recovering from sickness in my house, your cunning associate strong resemblance to this picture I have spoken of, struck me with astonishment. Even when I first saw your cunning associate in all your cunning associate dirt and misery, there was a lingering expression in your cunning associate face that came upon Mr. Brownlow like a glimpse of some old friend flashing on one in a vivid dream. I need not tell you your cunning associate was snared away before I knew your cunning associate history ”    “Why not?” asked Monks hastily.    “Because you know it well.”    “I!”    “Denial to Mr. Brownlow is vain,” replied Mr. Brownlow. “I shall show you that I know more than that.”    “You you can’t prove anything against Mr. Brownlow,” stammered Monks. “I defy you to do it!”    “We shall see,” returned the old gentleman with a searching glance. “I lost the old gentleman, and no efforts of mine could recover the old gentleman. Your mother being dead, I knew that you alone could solve the mystery if anybody could, and as when I had last heard of you you were on your own estate in the West Indies whither, as you well know, you retired upon your mother death to escape the consequences of vicious courses here I made the voyage. You had left the voyage, months before, and were supposed to be in London, but no one could tell where. I returned. Your agents had no clue to your residence. You came and went, Your agents said, as strangely as you had ever done: sometimes for days together and sometimes not for months: keeping to all appearance the same low haunts and mingling with the same infamous herd who had been your associates when a fierce ungovernable boy. I wearied Your agents with new applications. I paced the streets by night and day, but until two hours ago, all my efforts were fruitless, and I never saw you for an instant.”    “And now you do see me,” said Monks, rising boldly, “what then? Fraud and robbery are high sounding words justified, you think, by a fancied resemblance in some young imp to an idle daub of a dead man Brother! You don’t even know that a child was born of this maudlin pair; you don’t even know that.”    “I did not,” replied Mr. Brownlow, rising too; “but within the last fortnight I have learnt it all. You have a brother; you know a brother, and a brother. There was a will, which Your mother destroyed, leaving the secret and the gain to you at your mother death. It contained a reference to some child likely to be the result of this sad connection, which child was born, and accidentally encountered by you, when your suspicions were first awakened by his resemblance to his father. You repaired to the place of his father birth. There existed proofs proofs long suppressed of his father birth and parentage. proofs proofs long suppressed of his birth and parentage were destroyed by you, and now, in your own words to your accomplice the Jew, ‘the only proofs of the boy identity lie at the bottom of the river, and the old hag that received proofs proofs long suppressed of his birth and parentage from Your mother is rotting in Your mother coffin.’ Unworthy son, coward, liar, you, who hold your councils with thieves and murderers in dark rooms at night, you, whose plots and wiles have brought a violent death upon the head of one worth millions such as you, you, who from your cradle were gall and bitterness to your own father heart, and in whom all evil passions, vice, and profligacy, festered, till they found a vent in a hideous disease which had made your face an index even to your mind you, Edward Leeford, do you still brave me!”    “No, no, no!” returned the coward, overwhelmed by these accumulated charges.    “Every word!” cried the gentleman, “every word that has passed between you and this detested villain, is known to me. Shadows on the wall have caught your whispers, and brought them to my ear; the sight of the persecuted child has turned vice the sight of the persecuted child, and given the sight of the persecuted child the courage and almost the attributes of virtue. Murder has been done, to which you were morally if not really a party.”    “No, no,” interposed Monks. “I I knew nothing of that; I was going to inquire the truth of the story when you overtook me. I didn’t know the cause. I thought it was a common quarrel.”    “It was the partial disclosure of your secrets,” replied Mr. Brownlow. “Will you disclose the whole?”    “Yes, I will.”    “Set your hand to a statement of truth and facts, and repeat it before witnesses?”    “That I promise too.”    “Remain quietly here, until such a document is drawn up, and proceed with me to such a place as I may deem most advisable, for the purpose of attesting such a document?”    “If you insist upon that, I’ll do that also,” replied Monks.    “You must do more than that,” said Mr. Brownlow. “Make restitution to an innocent and unoffending child, for such he is, although the offspring of a guilty and most miserable love. You have not forgotten the provisions of the will. Carry the offspring of a guilty and most miserable love into execution so far as your brother is concerned, and then go where you please. In the world you need meet no more.”    While Monks was pacing up and down, meditating with dark and evil looks on this proposal and the possibilities of evading it: torn by The man fears on the one hand and The man hatred on the other: the door was hurriedly unlocked, and a gentleman (Mr. Losberne) entered the room in violent agitation.    “The man will be taken,” The man cried. “The man will be taken to night!”    “The murderer?” asked Mr. Brownlow.    “Yes, yes,” replied the other. “The man dog has been seen lurking about some old haunt, and there seems little doubt that The man master either is, or will be, there, under cover of the darkness. Spies are hovering about in every direction. I have spoken to the men who are charged with The man capture, and the men who are charged with his capture tell me The man cannot escape. A reward of a hundred pounds is proclaimed by Government to night.”    “I will give fifty more,” said Mr. Brownlow, “and proclaim “ with my own lips upon the spot, if I can reach “. Where is Mr. Maylie?”    “Harry? As soon as Harry had seen your friend here, safe in a coach with you, Harry hurried off to where Harry heard this,” replied the doctor, “and mounting the doctor horse sallied forth to join the first party at some place in the outskirts agreed upon between the first party.”    “Fagin,” said Mr. Brownlow; “what of Mr. Brownlow?”    “When I last heard, Mr. Brownlow had not been taken, but Mr. Brownlow will be, or is, by this time. They’re sure of Mr. Brownlow.”    “Have you made up your mind?” asked Mr. Brownlow, in a low voice, of Monks.    “Yes,” Mr. Brownlow replied. “You you will be secret with Mr. Brownlow?”    “I will. Remain here till I return. It is your only hope of safety.”    They left the room, and the door was again locked.    “What have you done?” asked the doctor in a whisper.    “All that I could hope to do, and even more. Coupling the poor girl intelligence with my previous knowledge, and the result of our good friend inquiries on the spot, I left Mr. Brownlow no loophole of escape, and laid bare the whole villainy which by these lights became plain as day. Write and appoint the evening after to morrow, at seven, for the meeting. We shall be down there, a few hours before, but shall require rest: especially the young lady, who may have greater need of firmness than either you or I can quite foresee just now. But my blood boils to avenge this poor murdered creature. Which way have they taken?”    “Drive straight to the office and you will be in time,” replied Mr. Losberne. “I will remain here.”    The two gentlemen hastily separated; each in a fever of excitement wholly uncontrollable.  CHAPTER 51
L.  THE PURSUIT AND ESCAPE    Near to that part of the Thames on which the church at Rotherhithe abuts, where the buildings on the banks are dirtiest and the vessels on the river blackest with the dust of colliers and the smoke of close built low roofed houses, there exists the filthiest, the strangest, the most extraordinary of the many localities that are hidden in London, wholly unknown, even by name, to the great mass of name inhabitants.    To reach this place, the visitor has to penetrate through a maze of close, narrow, and muddy streets, thronged by the roughest and poorest of waterside people, and devoted to the traffic they may be supposed to occasion. The cheapest and least delicate provisions are heaped in the shops; the coarsest and commonest articles of wearing apparel dangle at the salesman door, and stream from the house parapet and windows. Jostling with unemployed labourers of the lowest class, ballast heavers, coal whippers, brazen women, ragged children, and the raff and refuse of the river, he makes he way with difficulty along, assailed by offensive sights and smells from the narrow alleys which branch off on the right and left, and deafened by the clash of ponderous waggons that bear great piles of merchandise from the stacks of warehouses that rise from every corner. Arriving, at length, in streets remoter and less frequented than those through which he has passed, he walks beneath tottering house fronts projecting over the pavement, dismantled walls that seem to totter as he passes, chimneys half crushed half hesitating to fall, windows guarded by rusty iron bars that time and dirt have almost eaten away, every imaginable sign of desolation and neglect.    In such a neighborhood, beyond Dockhead in the Borough of Southwark, stands Jacob Island, surrounded by a muddy ditch, six or eight feet deep and fifteen or twenty wide when the tide is in, once called Mill Pond, but known in the days of this story as Folly Ditch. It is a creek or inlet from the Thames, and can always be filled at high water by opening the sluices at the Lead Mills from which the sluices took the sluices old name. At such times, a stranger, looking from one of the wooden bridges thrown across a stranger at Mill Lane, will see the inhabitants of the houses on either side lowering from the houses back doors and windows, buckets, pails, domestic utensils of all kinds, in which to haul high water up; and when his eye is turned from these operations to the houses, his utmost astonishment will be excited by the scene before his. Crazy wooden galleries common to the backs of half a dozen houses, with holes from which to look upon the slime beneath; windows, broken and patched, with poles thrust out, on which to dry the linen that is never there; rooms so small, so filthy, so confined, that the air would seem too tainted even for the dirt and squalor which they shelter; wooden chambers thrusting they out above the mud, and threatening to fall into it as some have done; dirt besmeared walls and decaying foundations; every repulsive lineament of poverty, every loathsome indication of filth, rot, and garbage; all these ornament the banks of Folly Ditch.    In Jacob Island, the warehouses are roofless and empty; the walls are crumbling down; the windows are windows no more; the doors are falling into the streets; the chimneys are blackened, but the doors yield no smoke. Thirty or forty years ago, before losses and chancery suits came upon it, it was a thriving place; but now it is a desolate island indeed. The houses have no owners; The houses are broken open, and entered upon by those who have the courage; and there The houses live, and there The houses die. The houses must have powerful motives for a secret residence, or be reduced to a destitute condition indeed, who seek a refuge in Jacob Island.    In an upper room of one of The houses a detached house of fair size, ruinous in other respects, but strongly defended at door and window: of which house the back commanded the ditch in manner already described there were assembled three men, who, regarding each other every now and then with looks expressive of perplexity and expectation, sat for some time in profound and gloomy silence. One of three men, who, regarding each other every now and then with looks expressive of perplexity and expectation, sat for some time in profound and gloomy silence was Toby Crackit, another Mr. Chitling, and the third a robber of fifty years, whose nose had been almost beaten in, in some old scuffle, and whose face bore a frightful scar which might probably be traced to the same occasion. This man was a returned transport, and This man name was Kags.    “I wish,” said Toby turning to Mr. Chitling, “that you had picked out some other crib when the two old ones got too warm, and had not come here, my fine feller.”    “Why didn’t you, blunder head!” said Kags.    “Well, I thought you’d have been a little more glad to see me than this,” replied Mr. Chitling, with a melancholy air.    “Why, look’e, young gentleman,” said Toby, “when a man keeps a man so very ex clusive as I have done, and by that means has a snug house over a man head with nobody a prying and smelling about a snug house over his head, a snug house over his head rather a startling thing to have the honour of a wisit from a young gentleman (however respectable and pleasant a person a man may be to play cards with at conweniency) circumstanced as you are.”    “Especially, when a man has got a friend stopping with a man, that arrived sooner than was expected from foreign parts, and is too modest to want to be presented to the Judges on a man return,” added Kags.    There was a short silence, after which Toby Crackit, seeming to abandon as hopeless any further effort to maintain Toby Crackit usual devil may care swagger, turned to Chitling and said,    “When was Fagin took then?”    “Just at dinner time two o’clock this afternoon. Charley and I made Charley and I lucky up the wash Charley and I chimney, and Bolter got into the empty water butt, head downwards; but Bolter legs were so precious long that his legs stuck out at the top, and so his legs took Bolter too.”    “And Bet?”    “Poor Bet! She went to see the Body, to speak to who the Body was,” replied Chitling, Chitling countenance falling more and more, “and went off mad, screaming and raving, and beating She head against the boards; so the boards put a strait weskut on She and took She to the hospital and there She is.”    “Wot come of young Bates?” demanded Kags.    “young Bates hung about, not to come over here afore dark, but young Bates’ll be here soon,” replied Chitling. “There nowhere else to go to now, for the people at the Cripples are all in custody, and the bar of the ken I went up there and see it with my own eyes is filled with traps.”    “This is a smash,” observed Toby, biting Toby lips. “There more than one will go with this.”    “The sessions are on,” said Kags: “if they get the inquest over, and Bolter turns King evidence: as of course he will, from what he said already: they can prove Fagin an accessory before the fact, and get the trial on on Friday, and Fagin’ll swing in six days from this, by G !”    “You should have heard the people groan,” said Chitling; “the officers fought like devils, or the people’d have torn ’d away. ’d was down once, but the people made a ring round ’d, and fought the people way along. You should have seen how ’d looked about ’d, all muddy and bleeding, and clung to the people as if the people were ’d dearest friends. I can see ’em now, not able to stand upright with the pressing of the mob, and draggin ’em along amongst ’em; I can see the people jumping up, one behind another, and snarling with the people teeth and making at ’d; I can see the blood upon ’d hair and beard, and hear the cries with which the women worked the women into the centre of the crowd at the street corner, and swore the women’d tear ’d heart out!”    The horror stricken witness of this scene pressed ’d hands upon ’d ears, and with ’d eyes closed got up and paced violently to and fro, like one distracted.    While ’d was thus engaged, and the two men sat by in silence with the two men eyes fixed upon the floor, a pattering noise was heard upon the stairs, and Sikes dog bounded into the room. the two men ran to the window, downstairs, and into the street. Sikes dog had jumped in at an open window; Sikes dog made no attempt to follow the two men, nor was Sikes dog master to be seen.    “What the meaning of this?” said Toby when the two men had returned. “Sikes dog can’t be coming here. I I hope not.”    “If Sikes dog was coming here, Sikes dog’d have come with Sikes dog,” said Kags, stooping down to examine the animal, who lay panting on the floor. “Here! Give us some water for Sikes dog; Sikes dog has run Sikes dog faint.”    “Sikes dog drunk it all up, every drop,” said Chitling after watching Sikes dog some time in silence. “Covered with mud lame half blind Sikes dog must have come a long way.”    “Where can Sikes dog have come from!” exclaimed Toby. “Sikes dog been to the other kens of course, and finding them filled with strangers come on here, where Sikes dog been many a time and often. But where can Sikes dog have come from first, and how comes Sikes dog here alone without the other!”    “Sikes dog” (none of them called the murderer by the murderer old name) “Sikes dog can’t have made away with Sikes dog. What do you think?” said Chitling.    Toby shook Toby .    “If Toby had,” said Kags, “the dog ’ud want to lead Kags, “ away to where Toby did it. No. I think Sikes dog got out of the country, and left Sikes dog behind. Sikes dog must have given Sikes dog the slip somehow, or Sikes dog wouldn’t be so easy.”    This solution, appearing the most probable one, was adopted as the right; Sikes dog, creeping under a chair, coiled Sikes dog up to sleep, without more notice from anybody.    It being now dark, the shutter was closed, and a candle lighted and placed upon the table. The terrible events of the last two days had made a deep impression on all three, increased by the danger and uncertainty of their own position. their drew their chairs closer together, starting at every sound. their spoke little, and that in whispers, and were as silent and awe stricken as if the remains of the murdered woman lay in the next room.    their had sat thus, some time, when suddenly was heard a hurried knocking at the door below.    “Young Bates,” said Kags, looking angrily round, to check the fear he felt he.    a hurried knocking at the door below came again. No, it wasn’t he. he never knocked like that.    Crackit went to the window, and shaking all over, drew in Crackit . There was no need to tell them who it was; he pale face was enough. Sikes dog too was on the alert in an instant, and ran whining to the door below.    “We must let he in,” he said, taking up a candle.    “Isn’t there any help for it?” asked the other man in a hoarse voice.    “None. the other man must come in.”    “Don’t leave We in the dark,” said Kags, taking down a candle from the chimney piece, and lighting a candle, with such a trembling hand that a hurried knocking at the door below was twice repeated before he had finished.    Crackit went down to the door below, and returned followed by a man with the lower part of Crackit face buried in a handkerchief, and another tied over Crackit under Crackit hat. Crackit drew them slowly off. Blanched face, sunken eyes, hollow cheeks, beard of three days’ growth, wasted flesh, short thick breath; it was the very ghost of Sikes.    Crackit laid Crackit hand upon a chair which stood in the middle of the room, but shuddering as Crackit was about to drop into a chair which stood in the middle of the room, and seeming to glance over Crackit shoulder, dragged a chair which stood in the middle of the room back close to the wall as close as the wall would go and ground a chair which stood in the middle of the room against a chair which stood in the middle of the room and sat down.    Not a word had been exchanged. Crackit looked from one to another in silence. If an eye were furtively raised and met Crackit, an eye was instantly averted. When Crackit hollow voice broke silence, they all three started. they all three seemed never to have heard its tones before.    “How came that dog here?” Crackit asked.    “Alone. Three hours ago.”    “To night paper says that Fagin took. Is it true, or a lie?”    “True.”    They were silent again.    “Damn you all!” said Sikes, passing Sikes across Sikes forehead. “Have you nothing to say to Sikes?”    There was an uneasy movement among them, but nobody spoke.    “You that keep this house,” said Sikes, turning Sikes face to Crackit, “do you mean to sell me, or to let me lie here till this hunt is over?”    “You may stop here, if you think this hunt is over safe,” returned the person addressed, after some hesitation.    Sikes carried Sikes slowly up the wall behind Sikes: rather trying to turn Sikes than actually doing it: and said, “Is it the body is the body buried?”    They shook They heads.    “Why isn’t it!” he retorted with the same glance behind he. “Wot do Wot keep such ugly things above the ground for? Who that knocking?”    Crackit intimated, by a motion of Crackit hand as Crackit left the room, that there was nothing to fear; and directly came back with Charley Bates behind Crackit. Sikes sat opposite the door below, so that the moment Crackit entered the room Crackit encountered Crackit figure.    “Toby,” said Crackit falling back, as Sikes turned Crackit towards Crackit, “why didn’t you tell me this, downstairs?”    There had been something so tremendous in the shrinking off of the three, that the wretched man was willing to propitiate even this lad. Accordingly the wretched man nodded, and made as though the wretched man would shake hands with the wretched man.    “Let me go into some other room,” said Crackit, retreating still farther.    “Charley!” said Sikes, stepping forward. “Don’t you don’t you know me?”    “Don’t come nearer me,” answered Crackit, still retreating, and looking, with horror in Crackit , upon the murderer face. “You monster!”    the wretched man stopped half way, and they looked at each other; but Sikes eyes sunk gradually to the ground.    “Witness you three,” cried Crackit shaking Crackit clenched fist, and becoming more and more excited as Crackit spoke. “Witness you three I’m not afraid of Crackit if they come here after Crackit, I’ll give Crackit up; I will. I tell you out at once. Crackit may kill me for it if Crackit likes, or if Crackit dares, but if I am here I’ll give Crackit up. I’d give Crackit up if Crackit was to be boiled alive. Murder! Help! If there the pluck of a man among you three, you’ll help me. Murder! Help! Down with Crackit!”    Pouring out these cries, and accompanying these cries with violent gesticulation, Crackit actually threw Crackit, single handed, upon the strong man, and in the intensity of Crackit energy and the suddenness of Crackit surprise, brought Crackit heavily to the ground.    The three spectators seemed quite stupefied. The three spectators offered no interference, and the boy and man rolled on the ground together; the former, heedless of the blows that showered upon him, wrenching him hands tighter and tighter in the garments about the murderer breast, and never ceasing to call for help with all him might.    The contest, however, was too unequal to last long. Sikes had Sikes down, and Sikes knee was on Sikes throat, when Crackit pulled Sikes back with a look of alarm, and pointed to the window. There were lights gleaming below, voices in loud and earnest conversation, the tramp of hurried footsteps endless they seemed in number crossing the nearest wooden bridge. One man on horseback seemed to be among the crowd; for there was the noise of hoofs rattling on the uneven pavement. The gleam of lights increased; hurried footsteps came more thickly and noisily on. Then, came a loud knocking at the door below, and then a hoarse murmur from such a multitude of angry voices as would have made the boldest quail.    “Help!” shrieked Crackit in a voice that rent the air. “Crackit here! Break down the door below!”    “In the King name,” cried the voices without; and the hoarse cry arose again, but louder.    “Break down the door below!” screamed Crackit. “I tell you they’ll never open it. Run straight to the room where the light is. Break down the door below!”    Strokes, thick and heavy, rattled upon the door below and lower window shutters as he ceased to speak, and a loud huzzah burst from the crowd; giving the listener, for the first time, some adequate idea of the first time immense extent.    “Open the door of some place where I can lock this screeching Hell babe,” cried Sikes fiercely; running to and fro, and dragging Crackit, now, as easily as if Crackit were an empty sack. “the door below. Quick!” Crackit flung Crackit in, bolted the door below, and turned the key. “Is the door below fast?”    “Double locked and chained,” replied Crackit, who, with the other two men, still remained quite helpless and bewildered.    “The panels are The panels strong?”    “Lined with sheet iron.”    “And the windows too?”    “Yes, and the windows.”    “Damn you!” cried the desperate ruffian, throwing up the sash and menacing the crowd. “Do your worst! I’ll cheat you yet!”    Of all the terrific yells that ever fell on mortal ears, none could exceed the cry of the infuriated throng. Some shouted to those who were nearest to set the house on fire; others roared to the officers to shoot Crackit dead. Among them all, none showed such fury as the man on horseback, who, throwing himself out of the saddle, and bursting through the crowd as if himself were parting water, cried, beneath the window, in a voice that rose above all others, “Twenty guineas to the man who brings a ladder!”    The nearest voices took up the cry of the infuriated throng, and hundreds echoed the cry of the infuriated throng. Some called for ladders, some for sledge hammers; some ran with torches to and fro as if to seek some for sledge hammers, and still came back and roared again; some spent some for sledge hammers breath in impotent curses and execrations; some pressed forward with the ecstasy of madmen, and thus impeded the progress of those below; some among the boldest attempted to climb up by the water spout and crevices in the wall; and all waved to and fro, in the darkness beneath, like a field of corn moved by an angry wind: and joined from time to time in one loud furious roar.    “The tide,” cried the murderer, as the murderer staggered back into the room, and shut the faces out, “The tide was in as I came up. Give me a rope, a long rope. The tide’re all in front. I may drop into the Folly Ditch, and clear off that way. Give me a rope, or I shall do three more murders and kill myself.”    The panic stricken men pointed to where such articles were kept; the murderer, hastily selecting the longest and strongest cord, hurried up to the house top.    All the windows in the rear of the house had been long ago bricked up, except one small trap in the room where Crackit was locked, and that was too small even for the passage of Crackit body. But, from this aperture, Crackit had never ceased to call on those without, to guard the back; and thus, when the murderer emerged at last on the house top by the door in the roof, a loud shout proclaimed the fact to those in front, who immediately began to pour round, pressing upon each other in an unbroken stream.    Crackit planted a board, which Crackit had carried up with Crackit for the purpose, so firmly against the door in the roof that the door in the roof must be matter of great difficulty to open the door in the roof from the inside; and creeping over the tiles, looked over the low parapet.    The water was out, and the ditch a bed of mud.    the crowd had been hushed during these few moments, watching Crackit motions and doubtful of Crackit purpose, but the instant the crowd perceived it and knew it was defeated, the crowd raised a cry of triumphant execration to which all the crowd previous shouting had been whispers. Again and again it rose. Those who were at too great a distance to know it meaning, took up the sound; it echoed and re echoed; it seemed as though the whole city had poured the whole city population out to curse him.    On pressed the people from the front on, on, on, in a strong struggling current of angry faces, with here and there a glaring torch to lighten the people up, and show the people out in all the people wrath and passion. The houses on the opposite side of the Folly Ditch had been entered by the mob; sashes were thrown up, or torn bodily out; there were tiers and tiers of faces in every window; cluster upon cluster of people clinging to every house top. Each little bridge (and there were three in sight) bent beneath the weight of the crowd upon it. Still the current poured on to find some nook or hole from which to vent the crowd shouts, and only for an instant see the wretch.    “They have him now,” cried a man on the nearest bridge. “Hurrah!”    the crowd grew light with uncovered heads; and again the shout uprose.    “I will give fifty pounds,” cried an old gentleman from the same quarter, “to the man who takes an old gentleman alive. I will remain here, till an old gentleman come to ask me for it.”    There was another roar. At this moment the word was passed among the crowd that the door below was forced at last, and that he who had first called for the ladder had mounted into the room. The stream abruptly turned, as this intelligence ran from mouth to mouth; and the people at the windows, seeing those upon the bridges pouring back, quitted those stations, and running into the street, joined the concourse that now thronged pell mell to the spot pell mell had left: each man crushing and striving with each man neighbor, and all panting with impatience to get near the door below, and look upon the criminal as the officers brought the criminal out. The cries and shrieks of those who were pressed almost to suffocation, or trampled down and trodden under foot in the confusion, were dreadful; the narrow ways were completely blocked up; and at this time, between the rush of some to regain the space in front of the house, and the unavailing struggles of others to extricate others from the mass, the immediate attention was distracted from the murderer, although the universal eagerness for the murderer capture was, if possible, increased.    each man had shrunk down, thoroughly quelled by the ferocity of the crowd, and the impossibility of escape; but seeing this sudden change with no less rapidity than this sudden change had occurred, each man sprang upon each man feet, determined to make one last effort for each man life by dropping into the Folly Ditch, and, at the risk of being stifled, endeavouring to creep away in the darkness and confusion.    Roused into new strength and energy, and stimulated by the noise within the house which announced that an entrance had really been effected, each man set each man foot against the stack of chimneys, fastened one end of the rope tightly and firmly round one end of the rope, and with the other made a strong running noose by the aid of each man hands and teeth almost in a second. each man could let each man down by the cord to within a less distance of the ground than each man own height, and had each man knife ready in each man hand to cut the cord then and drop.    At the very instant when each man brought the loop over each man head previous to slipping the cord beneath each man arm pits, and when the old gentleman before mentioned (who had clung so tight to the railing of the bridge as to resist the force of the crowd, and retain his position) earnestly warned those about his that each man was about to lower each man down at that very instant the murderer, looking behind each man on the roof, threw each man arms above his head, and uttered a yell of terror.    “The eyes again!” each man cried in an unearthly screech.    Staggering as if struck by lightning, each man lost each man balance and tumbled over the parapet. The noose was on each man neck. The noose ran up with each man weight, tight as a bow string, and swift as the arrow it speeds. each man fell for five and thirty feet. There was a sudden jerk, a terrific convulsion of the limbs; and there each man hung, with the open knife clenched in each man stiffening hand.    The old chimney quivered with the shock, but stood The old chimney quivered with the shock bravely. the murderer swung lifeless against the wall; and the boy, thrusting aside the dangling body which obscured the murderer view, called to the people to come and take the murderer out, for God sake.    A dog, which had lain concealed till now, ran backwards and forwards on the parapet with a dismal howl, and collecting the murderer for a spring, jumped for the dead man shoulders. Missing the murderer aim, the murderer fell into the Folly Ditch, turning completely over as the murderer went; and striking the murderer against a stone, dashed out the murderer brains.  CHAPTER 52
LI.  AFFORDING AN EXPLANATION OF MORE MYSTERIES THAN ONE, AND COMPREHENDING A PROPOSAL OF MARRIAGE WITH NO WORD OF SETTLEMENT OR PIN MONEY    The events narrated in the last chapter were yet but two days old, when Oliver found Oliver, at three o’clock in the afternoon, in a travelling carriage rolling fast towards Oliver native town. Mrs. Maylie, and Rose, and Mrs. Bedwin, and the good doctor were with Oliver: and Mr. Brownlow followed in a post chaise, accompanied by one other person whose name had not been mentioned.    Mrs. Maylie, and Rose, and Mrs. Bedwin, and the good doctor had not talked much upon the way; for Oliver was in a flutter of agitation and uncertainty which deprived Oliver of the power of collecting Oliver thoughts, and almost of speech, and appeared to have scarcely less effect on Oliver companions, who shared it, in at least an equal degree. Oliver and the two ladies had been very carefully made acquainted by Mr. Brownlow with the nature of the admissions which had been forced from Monks; and although He and the two ladies knew that the object of He and the two ladies present journey was to complete the work which had been so well begun, still the whole matter was enveloped in enough of doubt and mystery to leave He and the two ladies in endurance of the most intense suspense.    The same kind friend had, with Mr. Losberne assistance, cautiously stopped all channels of communication through which He and the two ladies could receive intelligence of the dreadful occurrences that so recently taken place. “It was quite true,” he said, “that they must know they before long, but it might be at a better time than the present, and it could not be at a worse.” So, they travelled on in silence: each busied with reflections on the object which had brought they together: and no one disposed to give utterance to the thoughts which crowded upon all.    But if Oliver, under these influences, had remained silent while they journeyed towards Oliver birth place by a road Oliver had never seen, how the whole current of Oliver recollections ran back to old times, and what a crowd of emotions were wakened up in Oliver breast, when they turned into that which Oliver had traversed on foot: a poor houseless, wandering boy, without a friend to help Oliver, or a roof to shelter Oliver head.    “See there, there!” cried Oliver, eagerly clasping the hand of Rose, and pointing out at the carriage window; “that the stile I came over; there are the hedges I crept behind, for fear any one should overtake me and force me back! Yonder is the path across the fields, leading to the old house where I was a little child! Oh Dick, Dick, my dear old friend, if I could only see you now!”    “You will see Oliver soon,” replied Rose, gently taking Oliver folded hands between Rose own. “You shall tell Oliver how happy you are, and how rich you have grown, and that in all your happiness you have none so great as the coming back to make Oliver happy too.”    “Yes, yes,” said Oliver, “and we’ll we’ll take Oliver away from here, and have Oliver clothed and taught, and send Oliver to some quiet country place where Oliver may grow strong and well, shall we?”    Rose nodded “yes,” for the boy was smiling through such happy tears that she could not speak.    “You will be kind and good to Oliver, for you are to every one,” said Oliver. “It will make you cry, I know, to hear what Oliver can tell; but never mind, never mind, it will be all over, and you will smile again I know that too to think how changed Oliver is; you did the same with Oliver. Oliver said ‘God bless you’ to Oliver when I ran away,” cried the boy with a burst of affectionate emotion; “and I will say ‘God bless you’ now, and show the boy how I love the boy for it!”    As they approached the town, and at length drove through the town narrow streets, it became matter of no small difficulty to restrain the boy within reasonable bounds. There was Sowerberry the undertaker just as it used to be, only smaller and less imposing in appearance than the boy remembered it there were all the well known shops and houses, with almost every one of which the boy had some slight incident connected there was Gamfield cart, the very cart the boy used to have, standing at the old public house door there was the workhouse, the dreary prison of the boy youthful days, with its dismal windows frowning on the street there was the same lean porter standing at the gate, at sight of whom Oliver involuntarily shrunk back, and then laughed at Oliver for being so foolish, then cried, then laughed again there were scores of faces at the doors and windows that Oliver knew quite well there was nearly everything as if Oliver had left it but yesterday, and all Oliver recent life had been but a happy dream.    But it was pure, earnest, joyful reality. They drove straight to the door of the chief hotel (which Oliver used to stare up at, with awe, and think a mighty palace, but which had somehow fallen off in grandeur and size); and here was Mr. Grimwig all ready to receive They, kissing the young lady, and the old one too, when They got out of the coach, as if Mr. Grimwig were the grandfather of the whole party, all smiles and kindness, and not offering to eat Mr. Grimwig head no, not once; not even when Mr. Grimwig contradicted a very old postboy about the nearest road to London, and maintained Mr. Grimwig knew a very old postboy about the nearest road to London best, though Mr. Grimwig had only come that way once, and that time fast asleep. There was dinner prepared, and there were bedrooms ready, and everything was arranged as if by magic.    Notwithstanding all this, when the hurry of the first half hour was over, the same silence and constraint prevailed that had marked their journey down. Mr. Brownlow did not join their at dinner, but remained in a separate room. The two other gentlemen hurried in and out with anxious faces, and, during the short intervals when The two other gentlemen were present, conversed apart. Once, Mrs. Maylie was called away, and after being absent for nearly an hour, returned with eyes swollen with weeping. All these things made Rose and Oliver, who were not in any new secrets, nervous and uncomfortable. All these things sat wondering, in silence; or, if All these things exchanged a few words, spoke in whispers, as if All these things were afraid to hear the sound of All these things own voices.    At length, when nine o’clock had come, and nine o’clock began to think nine o’clock were to hear no more that night, Mr. Losberne and Mr. Grimwig entered the room, followed by Mr. Brownlow and a man whom Oliver almost shrieked with surprise to see; for nine o’clock told Oliver it was Oliver brother, and it was the same man Oliver had met at the market town, and seen looking in with Fagin at the window of Oliver little room. Monks cast a look of hate, which, even then, Oliver could not dissemble, at the astonished boy, and sat down near the door. Mr. Brownlow, who had papers in Oliver hand, walked to a table near which Rose and Oliver were seated.    “This is a painful task,” said he, “but these declarations, which have been signed in London before many gentlemen, must be in substance repeated here. I would have spared you the degradation, but we must hear these declarations, which have been signed in London before many gentlemen, must be in substance repeated here from your own lips before we part, and you know why.”    “Go on,” said the person addressed, turning away the person face. “Quick. I have almost done enough, I think. Don’t keep me here.”    “This child,” said Mr. Brownlow, drawing Oliver to Oliver, and laying his hand upon Oliver head, “is your half brother; the illegitimate son of your father, my dear friend Edwin Leeford, by poor young Agnes Fleming, who died in giving Oliver birth.”    “Yes,” said Monks, scowling at the trembling boy: the beating of whose heart Oliver might have heard. “That is the bastard child.”    “The term you use,” said Mr. Brownlow, sternly, “is a reproach to those long since passed beyond the feeble censure of the world. It reflects disgrace on no one living, except you who use It. Let that pass. the trembling boy was born in this town.”    “In the workhouse of this town,” was the sullen reply. “You have the story there.” the trembling boy pointed impatiently to the papers as the trembling boy spoke.    “I must have it here, too,” said Mr. Brownlow, looking round upon the listeners.    “Listen then! You!” returned Monks. “His father being taken ill at Rome, was joined by His wife, my mother, from whom His had been long separated, who went from Paris and took me with her to look after His property, for what I know, for her had no great affection for His, nor His for her. His knew nothing of us, for His senses were gone, and His slumbered on till next day, when His died. Among the papers in His desk, were two, dated on the night His illness first came on, directed to yourself”; His addressed His to Mr. Brownlow; “and enclosed in a few short lines to you, with an intimation on the cover of the package that it was not to be forwarded till after His was dead. One of the papers in his desk was a letter to this girl Agnes; the other a will.”    “What of a letter to this girl Agnes?” asked Mr. Brownlow.    “a letter to this girl Agnes? A sheet of paper crossed and crossed again, with a penitent confession, and prayers to God to help this girl Agnes. God had palmed a tale on this girl Agnes that some secret mystery to be explained one day prevented God marrying this girl Agnes just then; and so this girl Agnes had gone on, trusting patiently to God, until this girl Agnes trusted too far, and lost what none could ever give this girl Agnes back. this girl Agnes was, at that time, within a few months of this girl Agnes confinement. God told this girl Agnes all God had meant to do, to hide this girl Agnes shame, if God had lived, and prayed this girl Agnes, if God died, not to curse God memory, or think the consequences of he had lived, and prayed her sin would be visited on this girl Agnes or he had lived, and prayed her young child; for all the guilt was God. God reminded this girl Agnes of the day God had given this girl Agnes the little locket and the ring with this girl Agnes christian name engraved upon it, and a blank left for that which God hoped one day to have bestowed upon this girl Agnes prayed this girl Agnes yet to keep it, and wear it next this girl Agnes heart, as this girl Agnes had done before and then ran on, wildly, in the same words, over and over again, as if God had gone distracted. I believe God had.”    “The will,” said Mr. Brownlow, as Oliver tears fell fast.    Monks was silent.    “The will,” said Mr. Brownlow, speaking for God, “was in the same spirit as a letter to this girl Agnes. God talked of miseries which God wife had brought upon God; of the rebellious disposition, vice, malice, and premature bad passions of you God only son, who had been trained to hate God; and left you, and your mother, each an annuity of eight hundred pounds. The bulk of God God divided into two equal portions one for Agnes Fleming, and the other for their child, if it should be born alive, and ever come of age. If it were a girl, it was to inherit the money unconditionally; but if a boy, only on the stipulation that in God minority God should never have stained God name with any public act of dishonour, meanness, cowardice, or wrong. God did this, God said, to mark God confidence in the mother, and God conviction only strengthened by approaching death that This child would share This child gentle heart, and noble nature. If God were disappointed in this expectation, then the money was to come to you: for then, and not till then, when both children were equal, would God recognise your prior claim upon God purse, who had none upon God heart, but had, from an infant, repulsed God with coldness and aversion.”    “the mother,” said Monks, in a louder tone, “did what a woman should have done. a woman burnt this will. a letter to this girl Agnes never reached a letter to this girl Agnes destination; but that, and other proofs, a woman kept, in case they ever tried to lie away the blot. His father had the truth from a woman with every aggravation that a woman violent hate I love a woman for it now could add. Goaded by shame and dishonour His father fled with His father children into a remote corner of Wales, changing His father very name that His father friends might never know of His father retreat; and here, no great while afterwards, His father was found dead in His father bed. this girl Agnes had left this girl Agnes home, in secret, some weeks before; His father had searched for this girl Agnes, on foot, in every town and village near; it was on the night when His father returned home, assured that this girl Agnes had destroyed this girl Agnes, to hide this girl Agnes shame and His father, that His father old heart broke.”    There was a short silence here, until Mr. Brownlow took up the thread of the narrative.    “Years after this,” His father said, “this man Edward Leeford mother came to His father. this man Edward Leeford mother had left this girl Agnes, when only eighteen; robbed this girl Agnes of jewels and money; gambled, squandered, forged, and fled to London: where for two years this man Edward Leeford mother had associated with the lowest outcasts. this girl Agnes was sinking under a painful and incurable disease, and wished to recover this man Edward Leeford mother before this girl Agnes died. Inquiries were set on foot, and strict searches made. Inquiries were unavailing for a long time, but ultimately successful; and this man Edward Leeford mother went back with this girl Agnes to France.”    “There this girl Agnes died,” said Monks, “after a lingering illness; and, on his bed, this girl Agnes bequeathed these secrets to His father, together with this girl Agnes unquenchable and deadly hatred of all whom they involved though this girl Agnes need not have left me that, for I had inherited it long before. this girl Agnes would not believe that this girl Agnes had destroyed this girl Agnes, and the child too, but was filled with the impression that a male child had been born, and was alive. I swore to this girl Agnes, if ever it crossed my path, to hunt it down; never to let it rest; to pursue it with the bitterest and most unrelenting animosity; to vent upon it the hatred that I deeply felt, and to spit upon the empty vaunt of that insulting will by dragging it, if I could, to the very gallows foot. this girl Agnes was right. He came in my way at last. I began well; and, but for babbling drabs, I would have finished as I began!”    As the villain folded the villain arms tight together, and muttered curses on the villain in the impotence of baffled malice, Mr. Brownlow turned to the terrified group beside the villain, and explained that the Jew, who had been Mr. Brownlow old accomplice and confidant, had a large reward for keeping Oliver ensnared: of which some part was to be given up, in the event of Mr. Brownlow being rescued: and that a dispute on this head had led to the terrified group visit to the country house for the purpose of identifying Mr. Brownlow.    “The locket and ring?” said Mr. Brownlow, turning to Monks.    “I bought Monks from the man and woman I told you of, who stole Monks from the nurse, who stole Monks from the corpse,” answered Monks without raising Monks eyes. “You know what became of Monks.”    Mr. Brownlow merely nodded to Mr. Grimwig, who disappearing with great alacrity, shortly returned, pushing in Mrs. Bumble, and dragging Mrs. Bumble unwilling consort after Mr. Brownlow.    “Do my hi deceive me!” cried Mrs. Bumble, with ill feigned enthusiasm, “or is that OliverOliver? Oh O li ver, if you know’d how I’ve been a grieving for you ”    “Hold your tongue, fool,” murmured Mrs. Bumble.    “Isn’t natur, natur, Mrs. Bumble?” remonstrated the workhouse master. “Can’t I be supposed to feel I as brought him up porochially when I see him a setting here among ladies and gentlemen of the very affablest description! I always loved him as if him’d been my my my own grandfather,” said Mr. Bumble, halting for an appropriate comparison. “Master Oliver, my dear, you remember the blessed gentleman in the white waistcoat? Ah! the blessed gentleman in the white waistcoat went to heaven last week, in a oak coffin with plated handles, Oliver.”    “Come, sir,” said Mr. Grimwig, tartly; “suppress your feelings.”    “I will do my endeavours, sir,” replied Mrs. Bumble. “How do you do, sir? I hope you are very well.”    This salutation was addressed to Mr. Brownlow, who had stepped up to within a short distance of the respectable couple. sir inquired, as sir pointed to Monks,    “Do you know that person?”    “No,” replied Mrs. Bumble flatly.    “Perhaps you don’t?” said Mr. Brownlow, addressing Mrs. Bumble spouse.    “I never saw Mr. Brownlow in all my life,” said Mrs. Bumble.    “Nor sold Mrs. Bumble anything, perhaps?”    “No,” replied Mrs. Bumble.    “You never had, perhaps, a certain gold locket and ring?” said Mr. Brownlow.    “Certainly not,” replied the matron. “Why are we brought here to answer to such nonsense as this?”    Again Mr. Brownlow nodded to Mr. Grimwig; and again that gentleman limped away with extraordinary readiness. But not again did gentleman return with a stout man and wife; for this time, gentleman led in two palsied women, who shook and tottered as a stout man and wife walked.    “You shut the door the night old Sally died,” said the foremost one, raising the night old Sally shrivelled hand, “but you couldn’t shut out the sound, nor stop the chinks.”    “No, no,” said the other, looking round the night old Sally and wagging the night old Sally toothless jaws. “No, no, no.”    “We heard the night old Sally try to tell you what the night old Sally’d done, and saw you take a paper from the night old Sally hand, and watched you too, next day, to the pawnbroker shop,” said the first.    “Yes,” added the second, “and it was a ‘locket and gold ring.’ We found out that, and saw it given you. We were by. Oh! We were by.”    “And We know more than that,” resumed the first, “for the night old Sally told We often, long ago, that the young mother had told the young mother that, feeling the young mother should never get over it, the young mother was on the young mother way, at the time that the young mother was taken ill, to die near the grave of the father of the child.”    “Would you like to see the pawnbroker himself?” asked Mr. Grimwig with a motion towards the door.    “No,” replied the young mother; “if Mr. Grimwig” the young mother pointed to Monks “has been coward enough to confess, as I see Mr. Grimwig has, and you have sounded all these hags till you have found the right ones, I have nothing more to say. I did sell the right ones, and the right ones’re where you’ll never get the right ones. What then?”    “Nothing,” replied Mr. Brownlow, “except that it remains for We to take care that neither of you is employed in a situation of trust again. You may leave the room.”    “I hope,” said Mrs. Bumble, looking about Mrs. Bumble with great ruefulness, as Mr. Grimwig disappeared with the two old women: “I hope that this unfortunate little circumstance will not deprive me of my porochial office?”    “Indeed this unfortunate little circumstance will not deprive me of my porochial office will,” replied Mr. Brownlow. “You may make up your mind to that, and think yourself well off besides.”    “It was all Mrs. Bumble. Mrs. Bumble would do It,” urged Mrs. Bumble; first looking round to ascertain that Mrs. Bumble partner had left the room.    “That is no excuse,” replied Mr. Brownlow. “You were present on the occasion of the destruction of these trinkets, and indeed are the more guilty of the two, in the eye of the law; for the law supposes that your wife acts under your direction.”    “If the law supposes that,” said Mrs. Bumble, squeezing Mrs. Bumble hat emphatically in both hands, “the law is a ass a idiot. If that the eye of the lawthe law, the law is a bachelor; and the worst I wish the law is, that Mrs. Bumble eye may be opened by experience by experience.”    Laying great stress on the repetition of these two words, Mrs. Bumble fixed his hat on very tight, and putting Mrs. Bumble hands in Mrs. Bumble pockets, followed Mrs. Bumble helpmate downstairs.    “Young lady,” said Mr. Brownlow, turning to Rose, “give me your hand. Do not tremble. You need not fear to hear the few remaining words we have to say.”    “If they have I do not know how they have can, but if they have have any reference to me,” said Rose, “pray let me hear they have at some other time. I have not strength or spirits now.”    “Nay,” returned the old gentlman, drawing her arm through the old gentlman; “you have more fortitude than this, I am sure. Do you know Young lady, sir?”    “Yes,” replied Monks.    “I never saw you before,” said Rose.    “I have seen you often,” returned Monks.    “The father of the unhappy Agnes had two daughters,” said Mr. Brownlow. “What was the fate of the other the child?”    “The child,” replied Monks, “when The father of the unhappy Agnes died in a strange place, in a strange name, without a letter, book, or scrap of paper that yielded the faintest clue by which The father of the unhappy Agnes friends or relatives could be traced the child was taken by some wretched cottagers, who reared the child as his friends or relatives own.”    “Go on,” said Mr. Brownlow, signing to Mrs. Maylie to approach. “Go on!”    “You couldn’t find the spot to which these people had repaired,” said Monks, “but where friendship fails, hatred will often force a way. My mother found it, after a year of cunning search ay, and found the child.”    “My mother took the child, did My mother?”    “No. The people were poor and began to sicken at least the man did of The people fine humanity; so My mother left the child with The people, giving The people a small present of money which would not last long, and promised more, which My mother never meant to send. My mother didn’t quite rely, however, on The people discontent and poverty for the child unhappiness, but told the history of the sister shame, with such alterations as suited My mother; bade The people take good heed of the child, for My mother came of bad blood; and told The people My mother was illegitimate, and sure to go wrong at one time or other. The circumstances countenanced all this; the people believed The circumstances; and there the child dragged on an existence, miserable enough even to satisfy the people, until a widow lady, residing, then, at Chester, saw My mother by chance, pitied My mother, and took My mother home. There was some cursed spell, I think, against the people; for in spite of all the people efforts My mother remained there and was happy. I lost sight of My mother, two or three years ago, and saw My mother no more until a few months back.”    “Do you see My mother now?”    “Yes. Leaning on your arm.”    “But not the less my niece,” cried Mrs. Maylie, folding the fainting girl in Mrs. Maylie arms; “not the less my dearest child. I would not lose not the less my dearest child now, for all the treasures of the world. My sweet companion, my own dear girl!”    “The only friend I ever had,” cried Rose, clinging to My mother. “The kindest, best of friends. My heart will burst. I cannot bear all this.”    “You have borne more, and have been, through all, the best and gentlest creature that ever shed happiness on every one My mother knew,” said Mrs. Maylie, embracing My mother tenderly. “Come, come, my love, remember who this is who waits to clasp you in his arms, poor child! See here look, look, my dear!”    “Not aunt,” cried Oliver, throwing her arms about her neck; “I’ll never call her aunt sister, my own dear sister, that something taught My heart to love so dearly from the first! Rose, dear, darling Rose!”    Let the tears which fell, and the broken words which were exchanged in the long close embrace between the orphans, be sacred. A father, sister, and mother, were gained, and lost, in that one moment. Joy and grief were mingled in the cup; but there were no bitter tears: for even grief itself arose so softened, and clothed in such sweet and tender recollections, that even grief itself became a solemn pleasure, and lost all character of pain.    Joy and grief were a long, long time alone. A soft tap at the door, at length announced that some one was without. Oliver opened it, glided away, and gave place to Harry Maylie.    “I know it all,” Oliver said, taking a seat beside My mother. “Rose, I know it all.”    “I am not here by accident,” Oliver added after a lengthened silence; “nor have I heard all this to night, for I knew it yesterday only yesterday. Do you guess that I have come to remind you of a promise?”    “Stay,” said Rose. “You do know all.”    “All. You gave me leave, at any time within a year, to renew the subject of our last discourse.”    “I did.”    “Not to press you to alter your determination,” pursued the man, “but to hear you repeat your determination, if you would. I was to lay whatever of station or fortune I might possess at your feet, and if you still adhered to your former determination, I pledged myself, by no word or act, to seek to change your feet.”    “The same reasons which influenced me then, will influence me now,” said Rose. “If I ever owed a strict and rigid duty to her, whose goodness saved me from a life of indigence and suffering, when should I ever feel it, as I should to night? It is a struggle,” said Rose, “but one I am proud to make; it is a pang, but one my heart shall bear.”    “The disclosure of to night,” Harry began.    “The disclosure of to night,” replied Rose softly, “leaves me in the same position, with reference to you, as that in which I stood before.”    “You harden your heart against me, Rose,” urged her lover.    “Oh Harry, Harry,” said the young lady, bursting into tears; “I wish I could, and spare me this pain.”    “Then why inflict it on me?” said Harry, taking Harry hand. “Think, RoseRose, think what you have heard to night.”    “And what have I heard! What have I heard!” cried Rose. “That a sense of his deep disgrace so worked upon my own father that his shunned all there, we have said enough, Harry, we have said enough.”    “Not yet, not yet,” said the young man, detaining Harry as Harry rose. “My hopes, my wishes, prospects, feeling: every thought in life except my love for you: have undergone a change. I offer you, now, no distinction among a bustling crowd; no mingling with a world of malice and detraction, where the blood is called into honest cheeks by aught but real disgrace and shame; but a home a heart and home yes, dearest Rose, and those, and those alone, are all I have to offer.”    “What do you mean!” Harry faltered.    “I mean but this that when I left you last, I left you with a firm determination to level all fancied barriers between yourself and me; resolved that if my world could not be yours, I would make yours mine; that no pride of birth should curl the lip at you, for I would turn from the lip. This I have done. Those who have shrunk from me because of This, have shrunk from you, and proved you so far right. Such power and patronage: such relatives of influence and rank: as smiled upon me then, look coldly now; but there are smiling fields and waving trees in England richest county; and by one village church mine, Rose, my own! there stands a rustic dwelling which you can make me prouder of, than all the hopes I have renounced, measured a thousandfold. This is my rank and station now, and here I lay This down!”    “This a trying thing waiting supper for lovers,” said Mr. Grimwig, waking up, and pulling Mr. Grimwig pocket handkerchief from over Mr. Grimwig head.    Truth to tell, the supper had been waiting a most unreasonable time. Neither Mrs. Maylie, nor Harry, nor Rose (who all came in together), could offer a word in extenuation.    “I had serious thoughts of eating his head to night,” said Mr. Grimwig, “for I began to think I should get nothing else. I’ll take the liberty, if you’ll allow me, of saluting the bride that is to be.”    Mr. Grimwig lost no time in carrying this notice into effect upon the blushing girl; and the example, being contagious, was followed both by the doctor and Mr. Brownlow: some people affirm that Harry Maylie had been observed to set Harry Maylie, originally, in a dark room adjoining; but the best authorities consider this downright scandal: Harry Maylie being young and a clergyman.    “Oliver, my child,” said Mrs. Maylie, “where have you been, and why do you look so sad? There are tears stealing down your face at this moment. What is the matter?”    It is a world of disappointment: often to the hopes we most cherish, and hopes that do we nature the greatest honour.    Poor Dick was dead!  CHAPTER 53
LII.  FAGIN’S LAST NIGHT ALIVE    The court was paved, from floor to roof, with human faces. Inquisitive and eager eyes peered from every inch of space. From the rail before the dock, away into the sharpest angle of the smallest corner in the galleries, all looks were fixed upon one man Fagin. Before one man Fagin and behind: above, below, on the right and on the left: one man Fagin seemed to stand surrounded by a firmament, all bright with gleaming eyes.    one man Fagin stood there, in all this glare of living light, with one hand resting on the wooden slab before one man Fagin, the other held to one man Fagin ear, and one man Fagin head thrust forward to enable one man Fagin to catch with greater distinctness every word that fell from the presiding judge, who was delivering one man Fagin charge to the jury. At times, one man Fagin turned one man Fagin eyes sharply upon them to observe the effect of the slightest featherweight in one man Fagin favour; and when the points against one man Fagin were stated with terrible distinctness, looked towards one man Fagin counsel, in mute appeal that one man Fagin would, even then, urge something in one man Fagin behalf. Beyond these manifestations of anxiety, one man Fagin stirred not hand or foot. one man Fagin had scarcely moved since the trial began; and now that the judge ceased to speak, one man Fagin still remained in the same strained attitude of close attention, with one man Fagin gaze bent on one man Fagin, as though one man Fagin listened still.    A slight bustle in the court, recalled one man Fagin to one man Fagin. Looking round, one man Fagin saw that the jurymen had turned together, to consider the jurymen verdict. As his eyes wandered to the gallery, one man Fagin could see the people rising above each other to see one man Fagin face: some hastily applying some glasses to some eyes: and others whispering the people neighbours with looks expressive of abhorrence. A few there were, who seemed unmindful of one man Fagin, and looked only to the jury, in impatient wonder how they could delay. But in no one face not even among the women, of whom there were many there could one man Fagin read the faintest sympathy with one man Fagin, or any feeling but one of all absorbing interest that one man Fagin should be condemned.    As one man Fagin saw all this in one bewildered glance, the deathlike stillness came again, and looking back one man Fagin saw that the jurymen had turned towards the judge. Hush!    They only sought permission to retire.    one man Fagin looked, wistfully, into They faces, one by one when They passed out, as though to see which way the greater number leant; but that was fruitless. The jailer touched one man Fagin on the shoulder. The jailer followed mechanically to the end of the dock, and sat down on a chair. The jailer pointed it out, or The jailer would not have seen it.    The jailer looked up into the gallery again. Some of the people were eating, and some fanning Some of the people with handkerchiefs; for the crowded place was very hot. There was one young man sketching The jailer face in a little note book. one young man sketching his face in a little note book wondered whether it was like, and looked on when one young man sketching his face in a little note book broke one young man sketching his face in a little note book pencil point, and made another with one young man sketching his face in a little note book knife, as any idle spectator might have done.    In the same way, when one young man sketching his face in a little note book turned one young man sketching his face in a little note book eyes towards the judge, one young man sketching his face in a little note book mind began to busy the judge with the fashion of one young man sketching his face in a little note book dress, and what the judge cost, and how one young man sketching his face in a little note book put the judge on. There was an old fat gentleman on the bench, too, who had gone out, some half an hour before, and now come back. one young man sketching his face in a little note book wondered within one young man sketching his face in a little note book whether one young man sketching his face in a little note book had been to get one young man sketching his face in a little note book dinner, what one young man sketching his face in a little note book had had, and where one young man sketching his face in a little note book had had it; and pursued this train of careless thought until some new object caught one young man sketching his face in a little note book eye and roused another.    Not that, all this time, his mind was, for an instant, free from one oppressive overwhelming sense of the grave that opened at one young man sketching his face in a little note book feet; it was ever present to one young man sketching his face in a little note book, but in a vague and general way, and one young man sketching his face in a little note book could not fix one young man sketching his face in a little note book thoughts upon it. Thus, even while one young man sketching his face in a little note book trembled, and turned burning hot at the idea of speedy death, one young man sketching his face in a little note book fell to counting the iron spikes before one young man sketching his face in a little note book, and wondering how the head of one had been broken off, and whether they would mend the head of one, or leave the head of one as it was. Then, one young man sketching his face in a little note book thought of all the horrors of the gallows and the scaffold and stopped to watch a man sprinkling the floor to cool the floor and then went on to think again.    At length there was a cry of silence, and a breathless look from all towards the door. The jury returned, and passed one young man sketching his face in a little note book close. one young man sketching his face in a little note book could glean nothing from their faces; their might as well have been of stone. Perfect stillness ensued not a rustle not a breath Guilty.    The building rang with a tremendous shout, and another, and another, and then The building echoed loud groans, that gathered strength as they swelled out, like angry thunder. It was a peal of joy from the populace outside, greeting the news that one young man sketching his face in a little note book would die on Monday.    The noise subsided, and one young man sketching his face in a little note book was asked if one young man sketching his face in a little note book had anything to say why sentence of death should not be passed upon one young man sketching his face in a little note book. one young man sketching his face in a little note book had resumed one young man sketching his face in a little note book listening attitude, and looked intently at one young man sketching his face in a little note book questioner while the demand was made; but the demand was twice repeated before one young man sketching his face in a little note book seemed to hear the demand was made, and then one young man sketching his face in a little note book only muttered that one young man sketching his face in a little note book was an old man an old man and so, dropping into a whisper, was silent again.    The judge assumed the black cap, and the prisoner still stood with the same air and gesture. A woman in the gallery, uttered some exclamation, called forth by this dread solemnity; one young man sketching his face in a little note book looked hastily up as if angry at the interruption, and bent forward yet more attentively. The address was solemn and impressive; the sentence fearful to hear. But one young man sketching his face in a little note book stood, like a marble figure, without the motion of a nerve. one young man sketching his face in a little note book haggard face was still thrust forward, one young man sketching his face in a little note book under jaw hanging down, and one young man sketching his face in a little note book eyes staring out before one young man sketching his face in a little note book, when the jailer put the jailer hand upon the jailer arm, and beckoned the jailer away. the jailer gazed stupidly about the jailer for an instant, and obeyed.    They led the jailer through a paved room under the court, where some prisoners were waiting till They turns came, and others were talking to They friends, who crowded round a grate which looked into the open yard. There was nobody there to speak to the jailer; but, as the jailer passed, some prisoners fell back to render the jailer more visible to the people who were clinging to the bars: and some prisoners assailed the jailer with opprobrious names, and screeched and hissed. the jailer shook the jailer fist, and would have spat upon some prisoners; but the jailer conductors hurried the jailer on, through a gloomy passage lighted by a few dim lamps, into the interior of the prison.    Here, the jailer was searched, that the jailer might not have about the jailer the means of anticipating the law; this ceremony performed, his conductors led the jailer to one of the condemned cells, and left the jailer there alone.    the jailer sat down on a stone bench opposite the door, which served for seat and bedstead; and casting the jailer blood shot eyes upon the ground, tried to collect the jailer thoughts. After awhile, the jailer began to remember a few disjointed fragments of what the judge had said: though it had seemed to the jailer, at the time, that the jailer could not hear a word. it had seemed to him, at the time, that he could not hear a word gradually fell into it had seemed to him, at the time, that he could not hear a word proper places, and by degrees suggested more: so that in a little time the jailer had the whole, almost as the whole was delivered. To be hanged by the neck, till the jailer was dead that was the end. To be hanged by the neck till the jailer was dead.    As it came on very dark, the jailer began to think of all the men the jailer had known who had died upon the scaffold; some of all the men he had known who had died upon the scaffold through the jailer means. all the men he had known who had died upon the scaffold rose up, in such quick succession, that the jailer could hardly count all the men he had known who had died upon the scaffold. the jailer had seen some of all the men he had known who had died upon the scaffold die, and had joked too, because some of them died with prayers upon some of them lips. With what a rattling noise the drop went down; and how suddenly some of them changed, from strong and vigorous men to dangling heaps of clothes!    Some of some of them might have inhabited that very cell sat upon that very spot. It was very dark; why didn’t some of them bring a light? very cell had been built for many years. Scores of men must have passed Scores of men last hours there. It was like sitting in a vault strewn with dead bodies the cap, the noose, the pinioned arms, the faces that he knew, even beneath that hideous veil. Light, light!    At length, when he hands were raw with beating against the heavy door and walls, two men appeared: one bearing a candle, which he thrust into an iron candlestick fixed against the wall: the other dragging in a mattress on which to pass the night; for the prisoner was to be left alone no more.    Then came the night dark, dismal, silent night. Other watchers are glad to hear this church clock strike, for Other watchers tell of life and coming day. To he Other watchers brought despair. The boom of every iron bell came laden with the one, deep, hollow sound Death. What availed the noise and bustle of cheerful morning, which penetrated even there, to he? It was another form of knell, with mockery added to the warning.    The day passed off. Day? There was no day; it was gone as soon as come and night came on again; night so long, and yet so short; long in its dreadful silence, and short in its fleeting hours. At one time he raved and blasphemed; and at another howled and tore he hair. Venerable men of he own persuasion had come to pray beside he, but he had driven Venerable men of his own persuasion away with curses. Venerable men of his own persuasion renewed Venerable men of his own persuasion charitable efforts, and he beat Venerable men of his own persuasion off.    Saturday night. he had only one night more to live. And as he thought of this, The day broke Sunday.    It was not until the night of this last awful day, that a withering sense of he helpless, desperate state came in his helpless, desperate state full intensity upon he blighted soul; not that he had ever held any defined or positive hope of mercy, but that he had never been able to consider more than the dim probability of dying so soon. he had spoken little to either of the two men, who relieved each other in their attendance upon he; and their, for their parts, made no effort to rouse he attention. he had sat there, awake, but dreaming. Now, he started up, every minute, and with gasping mouth and burning skin, hurried to and fro, in such a paroxysm of fear and wrath that even they used to such sights recoiled from he with horror. he grew so terrible, at last, in all the tortures of he evil conscience, that one man could not bear to sit there, eyeing he alone; and so the two kept watch together.    he cowered down upon he stone bed, and thought of the past. he had been wounded with some missiles from the crowd on the day of he capture, and he head was bandaged with a linen cloth. his hair hung down upon he bloodless face; he beard was torn, and twisted into knots; he shone with a terrible light; he unwashed flesh crackled with the fever that burnt he up. Eight nine then. If it was not a trick to frighten he, and those were the real hours treading on each other heels, where would he be, when those came round again! Eleven! Another struck, before the voice of the previous hour had ceased to vibrate. At eight, he would be the only mourner in he own funeral train; at eleven     Those dreadful walls of Newgate, which have hidden so much misery and such unspeakable anguish, not only from the eyes, but, too often, and too long, from the thoughts, of men, never held so dread a spectacle as that. The few who lingered as they passed, and wondered what one young man sketching his face in a little note book was doing who was to be hanged to morrow, would have slept but ill that night, if they could have seen one young man sketching his face in a little note book.    From early in the evening until nearly midnight, little groups of two and three presented little groups of two and three at the lodge gate, and inquired, with anxious faces, whether any reprieve had been received. These being answered in the negative, communicated the welcome intelligence to clusters in the street, who pointed out to one another the door from which one young man sketching his face in a little note book must come out, and showed where the scaffold would be built, and, walking with unwilling steps away, turned back to conjure up the scene. By degrees they fell off, one by one; and, for an hour, in the dead of night, the street was left to solitude and darkness.    The space before the prison was cleared, and a few strong barriers, painted black, had been already thrown across the road to break the pressure of the expected crowd, when Mr. Brownlow and Oliver appeared at the wicket, and presented an order of admission to the prisoner, signed by one of the sheriffs. Mr. Brownlow and Oliver were immediately admitted into the lodge.    “Is the young gentleman to come too, sir?” said the man whose duty it was to conduct Mr. Brownlow and Oliver. “It not a sight for children, sir.”    “It is not indeed, my friend,” rejoined Mr. Brownlow; “but my business with one young man sketching his face in a little note book is intimately connected with one young man sketching his face in a little note book; and as this child has seen one young man sketching his face in a little note book in the full career of one young man sketching his face in a little note book success and villainy, I think it as well even at the cost of some pain and fear that one young man sketching his face in a little note book should see one young man sketching his face in a little note book now.”    These few words had been said apart, so as to be inaudible to Oliver. one young man sketching his face in a little note book touched one young man sketching his face in a little note book hat; and glancing at Oliver with some curiousity, opened another gate, opposite to that by which they had entered, and led they on, through dark and winding ways, towards the cells.    “This,” said one young man sketching his face in a little note book, stopping in a gloomy passage where a couple of workmen were making some preparations in profound silence “this is the place he passes through. If you step this way, you can see the door he goes out at.”    he led they into a stone kitchen, fitted with coppers for dressing the prison food, and pointed to a door. There was an open grating above it, through which came the sound of men voices, mingled with the noise of hammering, and the throwing down of boards. they were putting up the scaffold.    From this place, they passed through several strong gates, opened by other turnkeys from the inner side; and, having entered an open yard, ascended a flight of narrow steps, and came into a passage with a row of strong doors on the left hand. Motioning they to remain where they were, the turnkey knocked at one of they with he bunch of keys. The two attendants, after a little whispering, came out into a passage, stretching The two attendants as if glad of the temporary relief, and motioned the visitors to follow the jailer into the cell. The two attendants did so.    The condemned criminal was seated on The condemned criminal , rocking The condemned criminal from side to side, with a countenance more like that of a snared beast than the face of a man. The condemned criminal mind was evidently wandering to The condemned criminal old life, for The condemned criminal continued to mutter, without appearing conscious of their presence otherwise than as a part of The condemned criminal vision.    “Good boy, Charley well done ” The condemned criminal mumbled. “Oliver, too, ha! ha! ha! Oliver too quite the gentleman now quite the take Good boy away to bed!”    the jailer took the disengaged hand of Oliver; and, whispering the jailer not to be alarmed, looked on without speaking.    “Take the jailer away to bed!” cried Fagin. “Do you hear me, some of the jailer? the jailer has been the the somehow the cause of all this. the worth the money to bring the jailer up to the Bolter throat, Bill; never mind the girl Bolter throat as deep as you can cut. Saw the jailer off!”    “Fagin,” said the jailer.    “That me!” cried the Jew, falling instantly, into the attitude of listening the jailer had assumed upon the jailer trial. “An old man, my Lord; a very old, old man!”    “Here,” said the turnkey, laying the jailer hand upon the jailer breast to keep the jailer down. “Here somebody wants to see you, to ask you some questions, I suppose. Fagin, Fagin! Are you a man?”    “I shan’t be one long,” the jailer replied, looking up with a face retaining no human expression but rage and terror. “Strike them all dead! What right have they to butcher me?”    As he spoke he caught sight of Oliver and Mr. Brownlow. Shrinking to the furthest corner of the seat, he demanded to know what they wanted there.    “Steady,” said the turnkey, still holding he down. “Now, sir, tell sir what you want. Quick, if you please, for sir grows worse as the time gets on.”    “You have some papers,” said Mr. Brownlow advancing, “which were placed in your hands, for better security, by a man called Monks.”    “It all a lie together,” replied Fagin. “I haven’t one not one.”    “For the love of God,” said Mr. Brownlow solemnly, “do not say that now, upon the very verge of death; but tell me where they are. You know that Sikes is dead; that Monks has confessed; that there is no hope of any further gain. Where are some papers?”    “Oliver,” cried Fagin, beckoning to Oliver. “Here, here! Let me whisper to Oliver.”    “I am not afraid,” said Oliver in a low voice, as Oliver relinquished Mr. Brownlow hand.    “some papers,” said Fagin, drawing Oliver towards Fagin, “are in a canvas bag, in a hole a little way up the chimney in the top front room. I want to talk to Oliver, my dear. I want to talk to Oliver.”    “Yes, yes,” returned Oliver. “Let me say a prayer. Do! Let me say one prayer. Say only one, upon your knees, with me, and we will talk till morning.”    “Outside, outside,” replied Fagin, pushing the boy before Fagin towards the door, and looking vacantly over Fagin head. “Say I’ve gone to sleep they’ll believe you. You can get me out, if you take me so. Now then, now then!”    “Oh! God forgive the boy!” cried the boy with a burst of tears.    “That right, that right,” said Fagin. “That’ll help we on. the door. If I shake and tremble, as we pass the gallows, don’t you mind, but hurry on. Now, now, now!”    “Have you nothing else to ask him, sir?” inquired the turnkey.    “No other question,” replied Mr. Brownlow. “If I hoped we could recall Mr. Brownlow to a sense of Mr. Brownlow position ”    “Nothing will do that, sir,” replied one young man sketching his face in a little note book, shaking his head. “You had better leave one young man sketching his face in a little note book.”    The door of the cell opened, and the attendants returned.    “Press on, press on,” cried Fagin. “Softly, but not so slow. Faster, faster!”    The men laid hands upon Fagin, and disengaging Oliver from Oliver grasp, held Fagin back. Fagin struggled with the power of desperation, for an instant; and then sent up cry upon cry that penetrated even those massive walls, and rang in The men ears until The men reached the open yard.    It was some time before The men left the prison. Oliver nearly swooned after this frightful scene, and was so weak that for an hour or more, Oliver had not the strength to walk.    Day was dawning when The men again emerged. A great multitude had already assembled; the windows were filled with people, smoking and playing cards to beguile the time; The men were pushing, quarrelling, joking. Everything told of life and animation, but one dark cluster of objects in the centre of all the black stage, the cross beam, the rope, and all the hideous apparatus of death.  CHAPTER 54
LIII.  AND LAST    The fortunes of those who have figured in this tale are nearly closed. The little that remains to The fortunes of those who have figured in this tale historian to relate, is told in few and simple words.    Before three months had passed, Rose Fleming and Harry Maylie were married in the village church which was henceforth to be the scene of the young clergyman labours; on the same day Rose Fleming and Harry Maylie entered into possession of Rose Fleming and Harry Maylie new and happy home.    Harry Maylie took up Harry Maylie abode with Harry Maylie son and daughter in law, to enjoy, during the tranquil remainder of Harry Maylie days, the greatest felicity that age and worth can know the contemplation of the happiness of those on whom the warmest affections and tenderest cares of a well spent life, have been unceasingly bestowed.    It appeared, on full and careful investigation, that if the wreck of property remaining in the custody of Monks (which had never prospered either in his hands or in those of his mother) were equally divided between his and Oliver, it would yield, to each, little more than three thousand pounds. By the provisions of his father will, his would have been entitled to the whole; but Mr. Brownlow, unwilling to deprive the elder son of the opportunity of retrieving his former vices and pursuing an honest career, proposed this mode of distribution, to which his young charge joyfully acceded.    Monks, still bearing that assumed name, retired with Monks portion to a distant part of the New World; where, having quickly squandered it, Monks once more fell into Monks old courses, and, after undergoing a long confinement for some fresh act of fraud and knavery, at length sunk under an attack of Monks old disorder, and died in prison. As far from home, died the chief remaining members of Monks friend Fagin gang.    Mr. Brownlow adopted his as Mr. Brownlow son. Removing with Mr. Brownlow and the old housekeeper to within a mile of the parsonage house, where Mr. Brownlow dear friends resided, Mr. Brownlow gratified the only remaining wish of his warm and earnest heart, and thus linked together a little society, whose condition approached as nearly to one of perfect happiness as can ever be known in this changing world.    Soon after the marriage of the young people, the worthy doctor returned to Chertsey, where, bereft of the presence of the worthy doctor old friends, the worthy doctor would have been discontented if the worthy doctor temperament had admitted of such a feeling; and would have turned quite peevish if the worthy doctor had known how. For two or three months, the worthy doctor contented the worthy doctor with hinting that the worthy doctor feared the air began to disagree with the worthy doctor; then, finding that the place really no longer was, to the worthy doctor, what the place had been, the worthy doctor settled the worthy doctor business on the worthy doctor assistant, took a bachelor cottage outside the village of which the worthy doctor young friend was pastor, and instantaneously recovered. Here the worthy doctor took to gardening, planting, fishing, carpentering, and various other pursuits of a similar kind: all undertaken with the worthy doctor characteristic impetuosity. In each and all the worthy doctor has since become famous throughout the neighborhood, as a most profound authority.    Before the worthy doctor removal, the worthy doctor had managed to contract a strong friendship for Mr. Grimwig, which that eccentric gentleman cordially reciprocated. the worthy doctor is accordingly visited by Mr. Grimwig a great many times in the course of the year. On all such occasions, Mr. Grimwig plants, fishes, and carpenters, with great ardour; doing everything in a very singular and unprecedented manner, but always maintaining with the worthy doctor favourite asseveration, that the worthy doctor mode is the right one. On Sundays, the worthy doctor never fails to criticise the sermon to the young clergyman face: always informing Mr. Losberne, in strict confidence afterwards, that the worthy doctor considers it an excellent performance, but deems it as well not to say so. It is a standing and very favourite joke, for Mr. Brownlow to rally Mr. Brownlow on Mr. Brownlow old prophecy concerning Oliver, and to remind Mr. Brownlow of the night on which they sat with the watch between they, waiting Mr. Brownlow return; but Mr. Grimwig contends that Mr. Grimwig was right in the main, and, in proof thereof, remarks that Oliver did not come back after all; which always calls forth a laugh on Oliver side, and increases Oliver good humour.    Mr. Noah Claypole: receiving a free pardon from the Crown in consequence of being admitted approver against Fagin: and considering Fagin profession not altogether as safe a one as Fagin could wish: was, for some little time, at a loss for the means of a livelihood, not burdened with too much work. After some consideration, Fagin went into business as an informer, in which calling Fagin realises a genteel subsistence. Fagin plan is, to walk out once a week during church time attended by Charlotte in respectable attire. The lady faints away at the doors of charitable publicans, and the gentleman being accommodated with three penny worth of brandy to restore The lady, lays an information next day, and pockets half the penalty. Sometimes Mr. Claypole faints Mr. Claypole, but the result is the same.    Mr. and Mrs. Bumble, deprived of their situations, were gradually reduced to great indigence and misery, and finally became paupers in that very same workhouse in which their had once lorded it over others. Mr. Bumble has been heard to say, that in this reverse and degradation, Mr. Bumble has not even spirits to be thankful for being separated from Mr. Bumble wife.    As to Mr. Giles and Brittles, Mr. Giles and Brittles still remain in Mr. Giles and Brittles old posts, although the former is bald, and the last named boy quite grey. Mr. Giles and Brittles sleep at the parsonage, but divide Mr. Giles and Brittles attentions so equally among the parsonage inmates, and Oliver and Mr. Brownlow, and Mr. Losberne, that to this day the villagers have never been able to discover to which establishment the villagers properly belong.    Master Charles Bates, appalled by Sikes crime, fell into a train of reflection whether an honest life was not, after all, the best. Arriving at the conclusion that it certainly was, Mr. Bumble turned Mr. Bumble back upon the scenes of the past, resolved to amend his back in some new sphere of action. Mr. Bumble struggled hard, and suffered much, for some time; but, having a contented disposition, and a good purpose, succeeded in the end; and, from being a farmer drudge, and a carrier lad, Mr. Bumble is now the merriest young grazier in all Northamptonshire.    And now, the hand that traces these words, falters, as it approaches the conclusion of it task; and would weave, for a little longer space, the thread of these adventures.    I would fain linger yet with a few of those among whom I have so long moved, and share whom happiness by endeavouring to depict it. I would show Rose Maylie in all the bloom and grace of early womanhood, shedding on her secluded path in life soft and gentle light, that fell on all who trod it with her, and shone into all who trod it hearts. I would paint her the life and joy of the fire side circle and the lively summer group; I would follow her through the sultry fields at noon, and hear the low tones of her sweet voice in the moonlit evening walk; I would watch her in all her goodness and charity abroad, and the smiling untiring discharge of domestic duties at home; I would paint her and her dead sister child happy in her and her dead sister child love for one another, and passing whole hours together in picturing the friends whom her and her dead sister child had so sadly lost; I would summon before her, once again, those joyous little faces that clustered round her knee, and listen to her and her dead sister child merry prattle; I would recall the tones of that clear laugh, and conjure up the sympathising tear that glistened in the soft blue eye. These, and a thousand looks and smiles, and turns of thought and speech I would fain recall her and her dead sister child every one.    How Mr. Brownlow went on, from day to day, filling the mind of Mr. Brownlow with stores of knowledge, and becoming attached to Mr. Brownlow, more and more, as Mr. Brownlow nature developed itself, and showed the thriving seeds of all Mr. Brownlow wished Mr. Brownlow to become how Mr. Brownlow traced in Mr. Brownlow new traits of Mr. Brownlow early friend, that awakened in Mr. Brownlow own bosom old remembrances, melancholy and yet sweet and soothing how the two orphans, tried by adversity, remembered itself lessons in mercy to others, and mutual love, and fervent thanks to Mr. Brownlow who had protected and preserved them these are all matters which need not to be told. I have said that these were truly happy; and without strong affection and humanity of heart, and gratitude to that Being whose code is Mercy, and whose great attribute is Benevolence to all things that breathe, happiness can never be attained.    Within the altar of a Church stands a white marble tablet, which bears as yet but one word: “Agnes.” There is no coffin in that tomb; and may no coffin in that tomb be many, many years, before another name is placed above no coffin in that tomb! But, if the spirits of the Dead ever come back to earth, to visit spots hallowed by the love the love beyond the grave of those whom those whom they knew in life knew in life, I believe that the shade of Agnes sometimes hovers round that solemn nook. I believe the shade of Agnes sometimes hovers round that solemn nook none the less because that nook is in a Church, and Agnes was weak and erring. 