CHAPTER 1
CHAPTER 2
1
 
 It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
 
 However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on such a man first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that such a man is considered as the rightful property of some one or other of the feelings or views of such a man daughters.
 
 “My dear Mr. Bennet,” said My dear Mr. Bennet lady to My dear Mr. Bennet one day, “have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?”
 
 My dear Mr. Bennet replied that My dear Mr. Bennet had not.
 
 “But it is,” returned his lady; “for Mrs. Long has just been here, and Mrs. Long told me all about it.”
 
 My dear Mr. Bennet made no answer.
 
 “Do not you want to know who has taken it?” cried My dear Mr. Bennet wife impatiently.
 
 “You want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it.”
 
 This was invitation enough.
 
 “Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that a young man of large fortune came down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much delighted with it that a young man of large fortune agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that a young man of large fortune is to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of a young man of large fortune servants are to be in the house by the end of next week.”
 
 “What is his name?”
 
 “Bingley.”
 
 “Is his married or single?”
 
 “Oh! single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!”
 
 “How so? how can it affect our girls?”
 
 “My dear Mr. Bennet,” replied My dear Mr. Bennet wife, “how can you be so tiresome! You must know that I am thinking of My dear Mr. Bennet marrying one of them.”
 
 “Is that My dear Mr. Bennet design in settling here?”
 
 “Design! nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that My dear Mr. Bennet may fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit My dear Mr. Bennet as soon as My dear Mr. Bennet comes.”
 
 “I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may send the girls by the girls, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of the girls, “Bingley might like you the best of the party.”
 
 “My dear, you flatter me. I certainly have had my share of beauty, but I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a woman has five grown up daughters, a woman ought to give over thinking of a woman own beauty.”
 
 “In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of.”
 
 “But, My dear, you must indeed go and see “Bingley when “Bingley comes into the neighbourhood.”
 
 “It is more than I engage for, I assure you.”
 
 “But consider five grown up daughters. Only think what an establishment it would be for one of five grown up daughters. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account, for in general, you know, Sir William and Lady Lucas visit no newcomers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for us to visit “Bingley, if you do not.”
 
 “You are over scrupulous, surely. I dare say “Bingley will be very glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by Lizzy to assure “Bingley of my hearty consent to “Bingley marrying whichever “Bingley chooses of the girls; though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy.”
 
 “I desire you will do no such thing. my little Lizzy is not a bit better than the others; and I am sure my little Lizzy is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving my little Lizzy the preference.”
 
 “They have none of They much to recommend They,” replied he; “They are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but my little Lizzy has something more of quickness than my little Lizzy sisters.”
 
 “Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way? You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion on my poor nerves.”
 
 “You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for my poor nerves. They are my old friends. I have heard you mention They with consideration these twenty years at least.”
 
 “Ah, you do not know what I suffer.”
 
 “But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood.”
 
 “It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit They.”
 
 “Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them all.”
 
 Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour, reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three and twenty years had been insufficient to make Mr. Bennet wife understand Mr. Bennet character. his wife mind was less difficult to develop. his wife was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper. When his wife was discontented, his wife fancied his wife nervous. The business of his wife life was to get his wife daughters married; The business of her life solace was visiting and news.
 CHAPTER 3
2
 
 Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. Mr. Bennet had always intended to visit Mr. Bennet, though to the last always assuring Mr. Bennet wife that Mr. Bennet should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid his wife had no knowledge of he should not go. he should not go was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing Mr. Bennet second daughter employed in trimming a hat, Mr. Bennet suddenly addressed his wife with,
 
 “I hope Mr. Bingley will like Mr. Bingley, his wife.”
 
 “We are not in a way to know what Mr. Bingley likes,” said Mr. Bingley mother resentfully, “since We are not to visit.”
 
 “But you forget, mamma,” said Elizabeth, “that We shall meet Mr. Bennet at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce Mr. Bennet.”
 
 “I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. Mrs. Long has two nieces of Mrs. Long own. Mrs. Long is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I have no opinion of Mrs. Long.”
 
 “No more have I,” said Mr. Bennet; “and I am glad to find that you do not depend on Mrs. Long serving you.”
 
 Mr. Bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain Mr. Bennet, began scolding one of Mr. Bennet daughters.
 
 “Don’t keep coughing so, Mr. Bennet, for heaven sake! Have a little compassion on my nerves. You tear a little compassion on my nerves to pieces.”
 
 “Mr. Bennet has no discretion in Mr. Bennet coughs,” said Mr. Bennet father; “Mr. Bennet times them ill.”
 
 “I do not cough for my own amusement,” replied Mr. Bennet fretfully. “When is your next ball to be, Mr. Bennet?”
 
 “To morrow fortnight.”
 
 “Aye, so it is,” cried Mr. Bennet mother, “and Mrs. Long does not come back till the day before; so, it will be impossible for Mrs. Long to introduce him, for Mrs. Long will not know him Mrs. Long.”
 
 “Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to Mr. Bingley.”
 
 “Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with Mr. Bennet myself; how can you be so teasing?”
 
 “I honour your circumspection. A fortnight acquaintance is certainly very little. One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a fortnight. But if we do not venture somebody else will; and after all, Mrs. Long and her nieces must stand Mrs. Long and her nieces chance; and, therefore, as her will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will take the office on myself.”
 
 The girls stared at The girls father. Mrs. Bennet said only, “Nonsense, nonsense!”
 
 “What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” cried myself. “Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you there. What say you, Mary? for Mary are a young lady of deep reflection, I know, and read great books and make extracts.”
 
 Mary wished to say something very sensible, but knew not how.
 
 “While Mary is adjusting Mary ideas,” he continued, “let us return to Mr. Bingley.”
 
 “I am sick of Mr. Bingley,” cried Mr. Bingley wife.
 
 “I am sorry to hear that; but why did not you tell me so before? If I had known as much this morning, I certainly would not have called on Mr. Bingley. It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, us cannot escape the acquaintance now.”
 
 The astonishment of the ladies was just what the acquaintance wished; that of Mrs. Bennet perhaps surpassing the rest; though when the first tumult of joy was over, Mrs. Bennet began to declare that it was what Mrs. Bennet had expected all the while.
 
 “How good it was in you, my dear Mr. Bennet! But I knew I should persuade you at last. I was sure you loved your girls too well to neglect such an acquaintance. Well, how pleased I am! and it is such a good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and never said a word about it till now.”
 
 “Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose,” said my dear Mr. Bennet; and, as my dear Mr. Bennet spoke, my dear Mr. Bennet left the room, fatigued with the raptures of my dear Mr. Bennet wife.
 
 “What an excellent father you have, girls,” said Mrs. Bennet, when the door was shut. “I do not know how you will ever make my dear Mr. Bennet amends for my dear Mr. Bennet kindness; or me either, for that matter. At our time of life, it is not so pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintance every day; but for your sakes, our would do anything. Lydia, my love, though you are the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with Lydia, my love at the next ball.”
 
 “Oh!” said Lydia stoutly, “I am not afraid; for though I am the youngest, I’m the tallest.”
 
 The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would return Mr. Bennet visit, and determining when they should ask he to dinner.
 CHAPTER 4
3
 
 Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of Mrs. Bennet five daughters, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from Sir William any satisfactory description of Mr. Bingley. Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject attacked Sir William in various ways; with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but Sir William eluded the skill of Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject; and Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject were at last obliged to accept the second hand intelligence of Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject neighbour, Lady Lucas. Mrs. Bennet report was highly favourable. Sir William had been delighted with Sir William. Sir William was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, Sir William meant to be at the next assembly with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley heart were entertained.
 
 “If I can but see one of her five daughters happily settled at Netherfield,” said Mrs. Bennet to Sir William, “and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for.”
 
 In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet visit, and sat about ten minutes with Mr. Bingley in Mr. Bingley library. Mr. Bingley had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty Mr. Bingley had heard much; but Mr. Bingley saw only the father. The ladies were somewhat more fortunate, for The ladies had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper window, that Mr. Bingley wore a blue coat and rode a black horse.
 
 An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched; and already had Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to Mrs. Bennet housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all. Mr. Bingley was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to accept the honour of their invitation, etc. Mrs. Bennet was quite disconcerted. Mrs. Bennet could not imagine what business Mr. Bingley could have in town so soon after Mr. Bingley arrival in Hertfordshire; and Mrs. Bennet began to fear that Mr. Bingley might be always flying about from one place to another, and never settled at Netherfield as Mr. Bingley ought to be. Lady Lucas quieted Mrs. Bennet fears a little by starting the idea of Mr. Bingley being gone to London only to get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that Mr. Bingley was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with Mr. Bingley to the assembly. The girls grieved over such a number of ladies; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing, that instead of twelve, Mr. Bingley had brought only six with Mr. Bingley from London, Mr. Bingley five sisters and a cousin. And when the party entered the assembly room the party consisted of only five altogether; Mr. Bingley, Mr. Bingley two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.
 
 Mr. Bingley was good looking and gentlemanlike; Mr. Bingley had a pleasant countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. Mr. Bingley sisters were fine women, with an air of decided fashion. Mr. Bingley brother in law, Mr. Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but Mr. Bingley friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by Mr. Hurst fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after Mr. Hurst entrance, of Mr. Hurst having ten thousand a year. The gentlemen pronounced Mr. Hurst to be a fine figure of a man, the ladies declared Mr. Hurst was much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and Mr. Hurst was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening, till Mr. Hurst manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of Mr. Hurst popularity; for Mr. Hurst was discovered to be proud, to be above Mr. Hurst company, and above being pleased; and not all Mr. Hurst large estate in Derbyshire could then save Mr. Hurst from having a most forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with his friend Mr. Darcy.
 
 Mr. Bingley had soon made Mr. Bingley acquainted with all the principal people in the room; Mr. Bingley was lively and unreserved, danced every dance, was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one himself at Netherfield. Such amiable qualities must speak for Such amiable qualities. What a contrast between Mr. Bingley and his friend Mr. Darcy! Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being introduced to any other lady, and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of Mr. Darcy own party. Mr. Darcy character was decided. Mr. Darcy was the proudest, most disagreeable man in the world, and everybody hoped that Mr. Darcy would never come there again. Amongst the most violent against Mr. Darcy was Mrs. Bennet, whose dislike of Mr. Darcy general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by Mr. Darcy having slighted one of her daughters.
 
 Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr. Darcy had been standing near enough for Elizabeth Bennet to overhear a conversation between Mr. Darcy and Mr. Bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes, to press Mr. Darcy friend to join it.
 
 “Come, Mr. Darcy,” said Mr. Darcy, “I must have you dance. I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much better dance.”
 
 “I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not another woman in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me to stand up with.”
 
 “I would not be so fastidious as you are,” cried Bingley, “for a kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls in my life as I have this evening; and there are several of so many pleasant girls in my life you see uncommonly pretty.”
 
 “You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,” said Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.
 
 “Oh! the eldest Miss Bennet is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there is one of the eldest Miss Bennet sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you.”
 
 “Which do you mean?” and turning round, my partner looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching Elizabeth eye, my partner withdrew my partner own and coldly said, “Elizabeth is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt me; and I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy Elizabeth smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.”
 
 Mr. Bingley followed Mr. Bingley advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings towards Mr. Darcy. Elizabeth told the story, however, with great spirit among Elizabeth friends; for Elizabeth had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.
 
 The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mrs. Bennet had seen Mrs. Bennet eldest daughter much admired by the Netherfield party. Mr. Bingley had danced with Mr. Bingley twice, and Mr. Bingley had been distinguished by Mr. Bingley sisters. Mr. Bingley was as much gratified by this as Mr. Bingley mother could be, though in a quieter way. Elizabeth felt Mr. Bingley pleasure. Mr. Bingley had heard Mr. Bingley mentioned to Mr. Bingley as the most accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that Catherine and Lydia had yet learnt to care for at a ball. Catherine and Lydia returned, therefore, in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where Catherine and Lydia lived, and of which Catherine and Lydia were the principal inhabitants. Catherine and Lydia found Mrs. Bennet still up. With a book Mrs. Bennet was regardless of time; and on the present occasion Mrs. Bennet had a good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised such splendid expectations. Mrs. Bennet had rather hoped that all Mrs. Bennet wife views on the stranger would be disappointed; but Mrs. Bennet soon found that Mrs. Bennet had a very different story to hear.
 
 “Oh, my dear Mr. Bennet,” as all his wife entered the room, ““ have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been there. Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it. Everybody said how well Jane looked; and Mr. Bingley thought Jane quite beautiful, and danced with Jane twice. Only think of that, my dear; Mr. Bingley actually danced with Jane twice; and Jane was the only creature in the room that Mr. Bingley asked a second time. First of all, Mr. Bingley asked Miss Lucas. I was so vexed to see Mr. Bingley stand up with Jane; but, however, Mr. Bingley did not admire Jane at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and Mr. Bingley seemed quite struck with Jane as Jane was going down the dance. So Mr. Bingley enquired who Jane was, and got introduced, and asked Jane for the two next. Then, the two third Mr. Bingley danced with the eldest Miss Bennet, and the two fourth with Miss Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane again, and the two sixth with Jane, and the Boulanger ”
 
 “If Mr. Bingley had had any compassion for me,” cried Jane impatiently, “Sir William would not have danced half so much! For God sake, say no more of God partners. Oh that God had sprained God ankle in the dance!”
 
 “Oh! my dear,” continued Mrs. Bennet, “I am quite delighted with God. God is so excessively handsome! and God are charming women. I never in my life saw anything more elegant than his sisters dresses. I dare say the lace upon Mrs. Hurst gown ”
 
 Here Mrs. Hurst was interrupted again. Mrs. Bennet protested against any description of finery. Mrs. Hurst was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.
 
 “But I can assure you,” Mrs. Hurst added, “that Mrs. Hurst does not lose much by not suiting Mrs. Hurst fancy; for Mrs. Hurst is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited that there was no enduring Mrs. Hurst! Mrs. Hurst walked here, and Mrs. Hurst walked there, fancying Mrs. Hurst so very great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given Mrs. Hurst one of your set downs. I quite detest Mrs. Hurst.”
 CHAPTER 5
4
 
 When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in Jane praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to Jane sister how very much her sister admired Mr. Bingley.
 
 “Mr. Bingley is just what a young man ought to be,” said her sister, “sensible, good humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners! so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!”
 
 “Mr. Bingley is also handsome,” replied Elizabeth, “which a young man ought likewise to be, if Mr. Bingley possibly can. Mr. Bingley character is thereby complete.”
 
 “I was very much flattered by His character asking me to dance a second time. I did not expect such a compliment.”
 
 “Did not you? I did for you. But that is one great difference between us. Compliments always take you by surprise, and me never. What could be more natural than His character asking you again? His character could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in the room. No thanks to His character gallantry for that. Well, His character certainly is very agreeable, and I give you leave to like His character. You have liked many a stupider person.”
 
 “Dear Lizzy!”
 
 “Oh! you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general. You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good and agreeable in your eyes. I never heard you speak ill of a human being in my life.”
 
 “I would wish not to be hasty in censuring any one; but I always speak what I think.”
 
 “I know you do; and it is that which makes the wonder. With your good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others! Affectation of candour is common enough; one meets with Affectation of candour everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or design to take the good of everybody character and make it still better, and say nothing of the bad belongs to you alone. And so, you like this man sisters, too, do you? this man sisters manners are not equal to character.”
 
 “Certainly not; at first. But they are very pleasing women when you converse with they. Miss Bingley is to live with Miss Bingley brother, and keep her brother house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in Miss Bingley.”
 
 Elizabeth listened in silence, but was not convinced; their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in general; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than Elizabeth sister, and with a judgment too unassailed by any attention to Elizabeth, Elizabeth was very little disposed to approve their. their were in fact very fine ladies; not deficient in good humour when their were pleased, nor in the power of being agreeable where their chose the assembly; but proud and conceited. their were rather handsome, had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town, had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds, were in the habit of spending more than their ought, and of associating with people of rank; and were therefore in every respect entitled to think well of their, and meanly of others. their were of a respectable family in the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories than that their brother fortune and their own had been acquired by trade.
 
 Mr. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from Mr. Bingley father, who had intended to purchase an estate, but did not live to do an estate. Mr. Bingley intended an estate likewise, and sometimes made choice of Mr. Bingley county; but as Mr. Bingley was now provided with a good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of Mr. Bingley temper, whether Mr. Bingley might not spend the remainder of Mr. Bingley days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to purchase.
 
 Mr. Bingley sisters were very anxious for Mr. Bingley having an estate of Mr. Bingley own; but though Mr. Bingley was now established only as a tenant, Miss Bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at Mr. Bingley table, nor was Mrs. Hurst, who had married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider Netherfield House as His sisters home when Netherfield House suited His sisters. Mr. Bingley had not been of age two years, when Mr. Bingley was tempted by an accidental recommendation to look at Netherfield House. Mr. Bingley did look at an accidental recommendation, and into an accidental recommendation for half an hour, was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied with what the owner said in the owner praise, and took the owner immediately.
 
 Between Mr. Bingley and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of Mr. Bingley temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to Mr. Bingley own, and though with his own Mr. Bingley never appeared dissatisfied. On the strength of Darcy regard Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of Mr. Bingley judgment the highest opinion. In understanding, Darcy was the superior. Bingley was by no means deficient, but Darcy was clever. Darcy was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious, and Darcy manners, though well bred, were not inviting. In that respect Darcy friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley was sure of being liked wherever Darcy appeared, Darcy was continually giving offence.
 
 The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic. Bingley had never met with pleasanter people or prettier girls in Darcy life; everybody had been most kind and attentive to Darcy; there had been no formality, no stiffness; Darcy had soon felt acquainted with all the room; and as to Miss Bennet, Darcy could not conceive an angel more beautiful. Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom Darcy had felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or pleasure. Miss Bennet Miss Bennet acknowledged to be pretty, but Miss Bennet smiled too much.
 
 Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bennet sister allowed it to be so but still Mrs. Hurst and her sister admired Miss Bennet and liked Miss Bennet, and pronounced Miss Bennet to be a sweet girl, and one whom Mrs. Hurst and her sister should not object to know more of. Miss Bennet Miss Bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl, and Mrs. Hurst and her sister brother felt authorised by such commendation to think of Miss Bennet as Miss Bennet chose.
 CHAPTER 6
5
 
 Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets were particularly intimate. Sir William Lucas had been formerly in trade in Meryton, where Sir William Lucas had made a tolerable fortune, and risen to the honour of knighthood by an address to the king during the king mayoralty. The distinction had perhaps been felt too strongly. The distinction had given the king a disgust to the king business and to the king residence in a small market town; and, quitting them both, the king had removed with the king family to a house about a mile from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge, where the king could think with pleasure of the king own importance, and, unshackled by business, occupy the king solely in being civil to all the world. For, though elated by the king rank, it did not render the king supercilious; on the contrary, the king was all attention to everybody. By nature inoffensive, friendly, and obliging, the king presentation at St. James had made the king courteous.
 
 Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet. They had several children. The eldest of They, a sensible, intelligent young woman, about twenty seven, was Elizabeth intimate friend.
 
 That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.
 
 “You began the evening well, Charlotte,” said Mrs. Bennet with civil self command to Lady Lucas. “You were Mr. Bingley first choice.”
 
 “Yes; but he seemed to like he second better.”
 
 “Oh! you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with Jane twice. To be sure that did seem as if he admired Jane indeed I rather believe he did I heard something about it but I hardly know what something about Mr. Robinson.”
 
 “Perhaps you mean what I overheard between he and Mr. Robinson; did not I mention it to Jane? Mr. Robinson asking Mr. Robinson how Mr. Robinson liked our Meryton assemblies, and whether Mr. Robinson did not think there were a great many pretty women in the room, and which Mr. Robinson thought the prettiest? and Mr. Robinson answering immediately to the last question ‘Oh! Mrs. Bennet, beyond a doubt, there cannot be two opinions on that point.’”
 
 “Upon my word! Well, that was very decided indeed that does seem as if but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know.”
 
 “My overhearings were more to the purpose than yours, Eliza,” said Charlotte. “Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as Mr. Darcy friend, is Mr. Darcy? Poor Eliza! to be only just tolerable.”
 
 “I beg you would not put it into Mrs. Bennet head to be vexed by Mrs. Bennet ill treatment, for Mrs. Bennet is such a disagreeable man that it would be quite a misfortune to be liked by Mrs. Bennet. Mrs. Long told me last night that Mrs. Bennet sat close to Mrs. Long for half an hour without once opening Mrs. Bennet lips.”
 
 “Are you quite sure, ma’am? is not there a little mistake?” said Jane. “I certainly saw Mr. Darcy speaking to Jane.”
 
 “Aye because Jane asked Mr. Darcy at last how Mr. Darcy liked Netherfield, and Mr. Darcy could not help answering Jane; but Jane said Mr. Darcy seemed very angry at being spoke to.”
 
 “Miss Bingley told me,” said Jane, “that Mr. Darcy never speaks much unless among Mr. Darcy intimate acquaintance. With he never speaks much unless among his intimate acquaintance Mr. Darcy is remarkably agreeable.”
 
 “I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If Mr. Darcy had been so very agreeable, Mr. Darcy would have talked to Mrs. Long. But I can guess how it was; everybody says that Mr. Darcy is eat up with pride, and I dare say Mr. Darcy had heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage, and had come to the ball in a hack chaise.”
 
 “I do not mind Mr. Darcy not talking to Mrs. Long,” said Miss Lucas, “but I wish Mr. Darcy had danced with Eliza.”
 
 “Another time, Jane,” said Jane mother, “I would not dance with Mr. Darcy, if I were you.”
 
 “I believe, ma’am, I may safely promise you never to dance with Mr. Darcy.”
 
 ““Pride,” said Miss Lucas, “does not offend me so much as pride often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour, should think highly of his. If I may so express it, his has a right to be proud.”
 
 “That is very true,” replied Elizabeth, “and I could easily forgive his , if his had not mortified mine.”
 
 “Pride,” observed Mary, who piqued Elizabeth upon the solidity of Elizabeth reflections, “is a very common failing, I believe. By all that I have ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human nature is particularly prone to human nature, and that there are very few of us who do not cherish a feeling of self complacency on the score of some quality or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of our, vanity to what our would have others think of our.”
 
 “If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,” cried a young Lucas, who came with his sisters, “I should not care how proud I was. I would keep a pack of foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine every day.”
 
 “Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought,” said Mrs. Bennet; “and if I were to see you at it, I should take away a bottle of wine directly.”
 
 The boy protested that The boy should not; The boy continued to declare that The boy would, and the argument ended only with the visit.
 CHAPTER 7
6
 
 The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield. The visit was returned in due form. Miss Bennet pleasing manners grew on the goodwill of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and though the mother was found to be intolerable, and the younger sisters not worth speaking to, a wish of being better acquainted with the younger sisters was expressed towards the two eldest. By Jane this attention was received with the greatest pleasure; but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in the younger sisters treatment of everybody, hardly excepting even Elizabeth sister, and could not like the younger sisters; though the younger sisters kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value as arising in all probability from the influence of the younger sisters brother admiration. It was generally evident whenever the younger sisters met, that he did admire Elizabeth; and to Elizabeth it was equally evident that Jane was yielding to the preference which Jane had begun to entertain for he from the first, and was in a way to be very much in love; but Jane considered with pleasure that it was not likely to be discovered by the world in general, since Jane united with great strength of feeling, a composure of temper and a uniform cheerfulness of manner which would guard Jane from the suspicions of the impertinent. Jane mentioned this to Jane friend Miss Lucas.
 
 “It may perhaps be pleasant,” replied Charlotte, “to be able to impose on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to be so very guarded. If a woman conceals a woman affection with the same skill from the object of it, a woman may lose the opportunity of fixing him; and it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the dark. There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to it. We can all begin freely a slight preference is natural enough; but there are very few of We who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement. In nine cases out of ten, a woman had better show more affection than a woman feels. Bingley likes your sister undoubtedly; but Bingley may never do more than like a woman, if a woman does not help Bingley on.”
 
 “But a woman does help Bingley on, as much as a woman nature will allow. If I can perceive a woman regard for Bingley, Bingley must be a simpleton indeed not to discover a simpleton too.”
 
 “Remember, Eliza, that he does not know Jane disposition as you do.”
 
 “But if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavour to conceal it, a man must find it out.”
 
 “Perhaps a man must, if a man sees enough of Jane. But though Bingley and Jane meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours together; and as Bingley and Jane meet tolerably often always see each other in large mixed parties, it is impossible that every moment should be employed in conversing together. Jane should therefore make the most of every half hour in which Jane can command his attention. When Jane is secure of his, there will be leisure for falling in love as much as Jane chooses.”
 
 “Your plan is a good one,” replied Elizabeth, “where nothing is in question but the desire of being well married; and if I were determined to get a rich husband, or any husband, I dare say I should adopt it. But these are not Jane feelings; Jane is not acting by design. As yet, Jane cannot even be certain of the degree of Jane own regard, nor of the degree of her own regard reasonableness. Jane has known him only a fortnight. Jane danced four dances with him at Meryton; Jane saw him one morning at him own house, and has since dined in company with him four times. This is not quite enough to make Jane understand him character.”
 
 “Not as you represent it. Had Jane merely dined with him, Jane might only have discovered whether him had a good appetite; but you must remember that four evenings have been also spent together and four evenings may do a great deal.”
 
 “Yes; these four evenings have enabled these four evenings to ascertain that these four evenings both like Vingt un better than Commerce; but with respect to any other leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded.”
 
 “Well,” said Charlotte, “I wish Jane success with all my heart; and if Jane were married to him to morrow, I should think Jane had as good a chance of happiness as if Jane were to be studying him character for a twelvemonth. Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance. If the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other, or ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance the parties felicity in the least. the parties always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to have the parties share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life.”
 
 “You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound. You know it is not sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself.”
 
 Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley attentions to Elizabeth sister, Elizabeth was far from suspecting that Elizabeth was Elizabeth becoming an object of some interest in the eyes of Mr. Darcy friend. Mr. Darcy had at first scarcely allowed Elizabeth to be pretty; Mr. Darcy had looked at Elizabeth without admiration at the ball; and when they next met, Mr. Darcy looked at Elizabeth only to criticise. But no sooner had Mr. Darcy made it clear to Mr. Darcy and Mr. Darcy friends that Elizabeth had hardly a good feature in Elizabeth face, than Mr. Darcy began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of Elizabeth dark eyes. To this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying. Though Mr. Darcy had detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry in Elizabeth form, Mr. Darcy was forced to acknowledge Elizabeth figure to be light and pleasing; and in spite of Mr. Darcy asserting that Elizabeth manners were not those of the fashionable world, Mr. Darcy was caught by their easy playfulness. Of this Elizabeth was perfectly unaware; to Elizabeth Mr. Darcy was only the man who made Mr. Darcy agreeable nowhere, and who had not thought Elizabeth handsome enough to dance with.
 
 Mr. Darcy began to wish to know more of Elizabeth, and as a step towards conversing with Elizabeth, attended to Elizabeth conversation with others. Mr. Darcy doing so drew Elizabeth notice. It was at Sir William Lucas, where a large party were assembled.
 
 “What does Mr. Darcy mean,” said Elizabeth to Charlotte, “by listening to my conversation with Colonel Forster?”
 
 “That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer.”
 
 “But if Mr. Darcy does it any more I shall certainly let Mr. Darcy know that I see what Mr. Darcy is about. Mr. Darcy has a very satirical eye, and if I do not begin by being impertinent Mr. Darcy, I shall soon grow afraid of Mr. Darcy.”
 
 On Mr. Darcy approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming to have any intention of speaking, Miss Lucas defied Miss Lucas friend to mention such a subject to Mr. Darcy, which immediately provoking Elizabeth to do it, Miss Lucas turned to Mr. Darcy and said,
 
 “Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed Mr. Darcy uncommonly well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at Meryton?”
 
 “With great energy; but it is a subject which always makes a lady energetic.”
 
 “You are severe on us.”
 
 “It will be Miss Lucas turn soon to be teased,” said Miss Lucas. “I am going to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows.”
 
 “You are a very strange creature by way of a friend! always wanting me to play and sing before anybody and everybody! If my vanity had taken a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of hearing the very best performers.” On Miss Lucas persevering, however, Miss Lucas added, “Very well; if it must be so, it must.” And gravely glancing at Mr. Darcy, “There is a fine old saying, which everybody here is of course familiar with ‘Keep your breath to cool your porridge,’ and I shall keep ‘ to swell my song.”
 
 Miss Lucas performance was pleasing, though by no means capital. After a song or two, and before Miss Lucas could reply to the entreaties of several that Miss Lucas would sing again, Miss Lucas was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by Miss Lucas sister Mary, who having, in consequence of being the only plain one in the family, worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments, was always impatient for display.
 
 Miss Lucas had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given Miss Lucas application, vanity had given Miss Lucas likewise a pedantic air and conceited manner, which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than Miss Lucas had reached. Elizabeth, easy and unaffected, had been listened to with much more pleasure, though not playing half so well; and Miss Lucas, at the end of a long concerto, was glad to purchase praise and gratitude by Scotch and Irish airs, at the request of Miss Lucas younger sisters, who with some of the Lucases, and two or three officers, joined eagerly in dancing at one end of the room.
 
 Mr. Darcy stood near them in silent indignation at such a mode of passing the evening, to the exclusion of all conversation, and was too much engrossed by Mr. Darcy own thoughts to perceive that Sir William Lucas was Sir William Lucas neighbour, till Sir William thus began.
 
 “What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy! There is nothing like dancing after all. I consider it as one of the first refinements of polished societies.”
 
 “Certainly, Sir William Lucas; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst the less polished societies of the world. Every savage can dance.”
 
 Sir William Lucas only smiled. “Your friend performs delightfully,” Your friend continued after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group; “and I doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr. Darcy.”
 
 “You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, Sir William Lucas.”
 
 “Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight. Do you often dance at St. James?”
 
 “Never, Sir William Lucas.”
 
 “Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?”
 
 “It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid any place.”
 
 “You have a house in town, I conclude?”
 
 Mr. Darcy bowed.
 
 “I had once some thoughts of fixing in town yourself for I am fond of superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that the air of London would agree with Sir William Lucas.”
 
 yourself paused in hopes of an answer; but yourself companion was not disposed to make any; and Elizabeth at that instant moving towards them, yourself was struck with the notion of doing a very gallant thing, and called out to Elizabeth,
 
 “My dear Miss Eliza, why are not you dancing? Mr. Darcy, you must allow me to present Sir William Lucas to Mr. Darcy as a very desirable partner. You cannot refuse to dance, I am sure, when so much beauty is before Mr. Darcy.” And, taking Sir William Lucas hand, he would have given her hand to Mr. Darcy, who, though extremely surprised, was not unwilling to receive her hand, when Sir William Lucas instantly drew back, and said with some discomposure to Sir William,
 
 “Indeed, Sir William Lucas, I have not the least intention of dancing. I entreat you not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner.”
 
 Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of Sir William Lucas hand, but in vain. Elizabeth was determined; nor did Sir William Lucas at all shake Elizabeth purpose by Sir William Lucas attempt at persuasion.
 
 “You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to deny me the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman dislikes the amusement in general, this gentleman can have no objection, I am sure, to oblige us for one half hour.”
 
 “Mr. Darcy is all politeness,” said Elizabeth, smiling.
 
 “Mr. Darcy is, indeed but, considering the inducement, my dear Miss Eliza, we cannot wonder at Mr. Darcy complaisance; for who would object to such a partner?”
 
 Elizabeth looked archly, and turned away. Elizabeth resistance had not injured Elizabeth with this gentleman, and Her resistance was thinking of Elizabeth with some complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley,
 
 “I can guess the subject of your reverie.”
 
 “I should imagine not.”
 
 “You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this manner in such society; and indeed I am quite of your opinion. I was never more annoyed! The insipidity, and yet the noise; the nothingness, and yet the self importance of all these people! What would I give to hear your strictures on all these people!”
 
 “Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you. My mind was more agreeably engaged. I have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow.”
 
 Bingley immediately fixed Bingley eyes on the face of a pretty woman, and desired his would tell Bingley Sir William Lucas had the credit of inspiring such reflections. Mr. Darcy replied with great intrepidity,
 
 “Miss Elizabeth Bennet.”
 
 “Miss Elizabeth Bennet!” repeated Bingley. “I am all astonishment. How long has Sir William Lucas been such a favourite? and pray when am I to wish you joy?”
 
 “That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask. A lady imagination is very rapid; A lady imagination jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony, in a moment. I knew you would be wishing me joy.”
 
 “Nay, if you are so serious about it, I shall consider the matter as absolutely settled. You will have a charming mother in law, indeed, and of course Sir William Lucas will be always at Pemberley with you.”
 
 He listened to Sir William Lucas with perfect indifference, while Sir William Lucas chose to entertain Sir William Lucas in this manner; and as He composure convinced Sir William Lucas that all was safe, Sir William Lucas wit flowed long.
 CHAPTER 8
7
 
 Mr. Bennet property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two thousand a year, which, unfortunately for Mr. Bennet property daughters, was entailed, in default of heirs male, on a distant relation; and heirs male mother fortune, though ample for her situation in life, could but ill supply the deficiency of Mr. Bennet property. her father had been an attorney in Meryton, and had left her four thousand pounds.
 
 her had a sister married to a Mr. Phillips, who had been a clerk to Her father, and succeeded him in the business, and a brother settled in London in a respectable line of trade.
 
 The village of Longbourn was only one mile from Meryton; a most convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually tempted thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to their aunt and to a milliner shop just over the way. The two youngest of the family, Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions; these attentions minds were more vacant than these attentions sisters’, and when nothing better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse these attentions morning hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and however bare of news the country in general might be, these attentions always contrived to learn some from these attentions . At present, indeed, these attentions were well supplied both with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was the headquarters.
 
 these attentions visits to Mrs. Philips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence. Every day added something to these attentions knowledge of the officers’ names and connections. these attentions lodgings were not long a secret, and at length Their lodgings began to know the officers. Mrs. Philips visited Their lodgings, and this opened to Mrs. Philips nieces a source of felicity unknown before. them could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr. Bingley large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to them mother, was worthless in them eyes when opposed to the regimentals of an ensign.
 
 After listening one morning to them effusions on this subject, Mrs. Philips coolly observed,
 
 “From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two of the silliest girls in the country. I have suspected it some time, but I am now convinced.”
 
 Catherine was disconcerted, and made no answer; but Lydia, with perfect indifference, continued to express Catherine admiration of Captain Carter, and Catherine hope of seeing Mrs. Philips in the course of the day, as Mrs. Philips was going the next morning to London.
 
 “I am astonished, my dear,” said Mrs. Philips, “that you should be so ready to think your own children silly. If I wished to think slightingly of anybody children, it should not be of my own, however.”
 
 “If your own children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it.”
 
 “Yes but as it happens, they are all of they very clever.”
 
 “This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree. I had hoped that we sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must so far differ from you as to think we two youngest daughters uncommonly foolish.”
 
 “Mrs. Philips, you must not expect such girls to have the sense of such girls father and mother. When such girls get to such girls age, I dare say such girls will not think about officers any more than such girls do. I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself very well and, indeed, so I do still at my heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year, should want one of my girls, I shall not say nay to a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year, should want one of my girls; and I thought Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir William in Sir William regimentals.”
 
 “Mamma,” cried Lydia, “my aunt says that Colonel Forster and Captain Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson as Colonel Forster and Captain Carter did when Colonel Forster and Captain Carter first came; my aunt sees Colonel Forster and Captain Carter now very often standing in Clarke library.”
 
 Mrs. Philips was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for Miss Bennet; the entrance of the footman came from Netherfield, and the servant waited for an answer. Mrs. Bennet eyes sparkled with pleasure, and my aunt was eagerly calling out, while my aunt daughter read,
 
 “Well, Jane, who is it from? What is it about? What does the servant say? Well, Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.”
 
 “It is from Miss Bingley,” said Jane, and then read It aloud.
 
 “MY DEAR FRIEND, 
 “If you are not so compassionate as to dine to day with Louisa and me, us shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of us lives, for a whole day tête à tête between two women can never end without a quarrel. Come as soon as you can on the receipt of this. My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers. My brother and the gentlemen ever,
 
 “CAROLINE BINGLEY”
 
 “With the officers!” cried Lydia. “I wonder my aunt did not tell us of that.”
 
 “Dining out,” said Mrs. Bennet, “that is very unlucky.”
 
 “Can I have the carriage?” said Jane.
 
 “No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to rain; and then you must stay all night.”
 
 “That would be a good scheme,” said Elizabeth, “if you were sure that they would not offer to send Elizabeth home.”
 
 “Oh! but the gentlemen will have CAROLINE BINGLEY”
 
  chaise to go to Meryton; and the Hursts have no horses to the gentlemen.”
 
 “I had much rather go in the coach.”
 
 “But, my dear, your father cannot spare no horses to theirs, I am sure. no horses to theirs are wanted in the farm, Mrs. Bennet, are not no horses to theirs?”
 
 “no horses to theirs are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get no horses to theirs.”
 
 “But if you have got no horses to theirs to day,” said Elizabeth, “my mother purpose will be answered.”
 
 Elizabeth did at last extort from your father an acknowledgment that the horses were engaged. Elizabeth was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and Elizabeth mother attended Elizabeth to the door with many cheerful prognostics of a bad day. Elizabeth hopes were answered; Elizabeth had not been gone long before it rained hard. Elizabeth sisters were uneasy for Elizabeth, but her mother was delighted. The rain continued the whole evening without intermission; Elizabeth certainly could not come back.
 
 “This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!” said Mrs. Bennet, more than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all Elizabeth own. Till the next morning, however, Elizabeth was not aware of all the felicity of Elizabeth contrivance. Breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from Netherfield brought the following note for Elizabeth:
 
 “MY DEAREST LIZZY, 
 “I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to be imputed to my getting wet through yesterday. My kind friends will not hear of my returning home till I am better. My kind friends insist also on my seeing Mr. Jones therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of Mr. Jones having been to myself and, excepting a sore throat and headache, there is not much the matter with myself. Yours, &c.”
 
 “Well, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the note aloud, “if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness if your daughter should die, it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of Mr. Bingley, and under your orders.”
 
 “Oh! I am not at all afraid of your daughter dying. People do not die of little trifling colds. your daughter will be taken good care of. As long as your daughter stays there, it is all very well. I would go and see your daughter if I could have the carriage.”
 
 Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was determined to go to Elizabeth, though the carriage was not to be had; and as Elizabeth was no horsewoman, walking was Elizabeth only alternative. Elizabeth declared Elizabeth resolution.
 
 “How can you be so silly,” cried Elizabeth , “as to think of such a thing, in all this dirt! You will not be fit to be seen when you get there.”
 
 “I shall be very fit to see Elizabeth which is all I want.”
 
 “Is this a hint to me, your daughter,” said your daughter father, “to send for the horses?”
 
 “No, indeed. I do not wish to avoid the walk. The distance is nothing, when one has a motive; only three miles. I shall be back by dinner.”
 
 “I admire the activity of your benevolence,” observed Mary, “but every impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion, exertion should always be in proportion to what is required.”
 
 “We will go as far as Meryton with your daughter,” said Catherine and Lydia. Elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young ladies set off together.
 
 “If We make haste,” said Lydia, as they walked along, “perhaps We may see something of Captain Carter before Captain Carter goes.”
 
 In Meryton they parted; the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one of the officers’ wives, and Elizabeth continued Elizabeth walk alone, crossing field after field at a quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing over puddles with impatient activity, and finding stiles at last within view of the house, with weary ankles, dirty stockings, and a face glowing with the warmth of exercise.
 
 stiles was shown into the breakfast parlour, where all but Elizabeth were assembled, and where stiles appearance created a great deal of surprise. That stiles should have walked three miles so early in the day, in such dirty weather, and by stiles, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held stiles in contempt for it. stiles was received, however, very politely by they; and in they brother manners there was something better than politeness; there was good humour and kindness. Mr. Darcy said very little, and Mr. Hurst nothing at all. The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to stiles complexion, and doubt as to the occasion justifying stiles coming so far alone. The latter was thinking only of Mr. Hurst breakfast.
 
 stiles enquiries after stiles sister were not very favourably answered. Mrs. Philips had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and not well enough to leave Mrs. Philips room. Elizabeth was glad to be taken to Elizabeth immediately; and Jane, who had only been withheld by the fear of giving alarm or inconvenience, from expressing in Elizabeth note how much Elizabeth longed for such a visit, was delighted at Elizabeth entrance. Elizabeth was not equal, however, to much conversation, and when Miss Bingley CAROLINE BINGLEY”
 
  left the fear of giving alarm or inconvenience together, could attempt little beside expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness Elizabeth was treated with. Elizabeth silently attended Elizabeth.
 
 When breakfast was over, they were joined by the sisters; and Elizabeth began to like they herself, when Elizabeth saw how much affection and solicitude they showed for Elizabeth. The apothecary came, and having examined The apothecary patient, said, as might be supposed, that Elizabeth had caught a violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it; advised Elizabeth to return to bed, and promised Elizabeth some draughts. The advice was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and Elizabeth head ached acutely. Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, the gentlemen had in fact nothing to do elsewhere.
 
 When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that Elizabeth must go, and very unwillingly said so. Miss Bingley offered Elizabeth the carriage, and Elizabeth only wanted a little pressing to accept the carriage, when Elizabeth testified such concern in parting with Elizabeth, that Miss Bingley was obliged to convert the offer of the chaise to an invitation to remain at Netherfield for the present. Elizabeth most thankfully consented, and a servant was dispatched to Longbourn to acquaint the family with Elizabeth stay, and bring back a supply of clothes.
 CHAPTER 9
8
 
 At five o’clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half past six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner. To the civil enquiries which then poured in, and amongst which Elizabeth had the pleasure of distinguishing the much superior solicitude of Mr. Bingley, Elizabeth could not make a very favourable answer. Elizabeth was by no means better. The sisters, on hearing this, repeated three or four times how much The sisters were grieved, how shocking it was to have a bad cold, and how excessively The sisters disliked being ill The sisters; and then thought no more of the matter: and The sisters indifference towards Elizabeth when not immediately before The sisters, restored Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all Elizabeth original dislike.
 
 The sisters brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom Elizabeth could regard with any complacency. Their brother anxiety for Elizabeth was evident, and Their brother attentions to Elizabeth most pleasing, and The sisters prevented Elizabeth feeling Elizabeth so much an intruder as Elizabeth believed Elizabeth was considered by the others. Elizabeth had very little notice from any but Their brother. Mr. Bingley was engrossed by Mr. Darcy, Elizabeth sister scarcely less so; and as for Mr. Hurst, by whom Elizabeth sat, Their brother was an indolent man, who lived only to eat, drink, and play at cards; who, when Their brother found Elizabeth prefer a plain dish to a ragout, had nothing to say to Elizabeth.
 
 When dinner was over, Elizabeth returned directly to Elizabeth, and Mr. Bingley Mr. Bingley began abusing Elizabeth as soon as Elizabeth was out of the room. Elizabeth manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride and impertinence; Elizabeth had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty. Mrs. Hurst thought the same, and added,
 
 “Mrs. Hurst has nothing, in short, to recommend Mrs. Hurst, but being an excellent walker. I shall never forget Mrs. Hurst appearance this morning. Mrs. Hurst really looked almost wild.”
 
 “Mrs. Hurst did, indeed, Louisa. I could hardly keep my countenance. Very nonsensical to come at all! Why must Mrs. Hurst be scampering about the country, because Mrs. Hurst sister had a cold? Mrs. Hurst hair so untidy, so blowsy!”
 
 “Yes, and Mr. Darcy; I hope you saw her sister petticoat, six inches deep in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been let down to hide it not doing it office.”
 
 “Your picture may be very exact, Louisa,” said Bingley; “but this was all lost upon me. I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked remarkably well when Miss Elizabeth Bennet came into the room this morning. Miss Elizabeth Bennet quite escaped my notice.”
 
 “You observed it, Mr. Darcy, I am sure,” said BingleyBingley; “and I am inclined to think that you would not wish to see her sister make such an exhibition.”
 
 “Certainly not.”
 
 “To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it is, above Miss Elizabeth Bennet ankles in dirt, and alone, quite alone! what could Miss Elizabeth Bennet mean by it? It seems to me to show an abominable sort of conceited independence, a most country town indifference to decorum.”
 
 “It shows an affection for Miss Elizabeth Bennet that is very pleasing,” said Bingley.
 
 “I am afraid, Mr. Darcy,” observed Miss Bingley, in a half whisper, “that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of Miss Elizabeth Bennet fine eyes.”
 
 “Not at all,” he replied; “they were brightened by the exercise.” A short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again.
 
 “I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, Miss Jane Bennet is really a very sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart Miss Jane Bennet were well settled. But with such a father and mother, and such low connections, I am afraid there is no chance of it.”
 
 “I think I have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in Meryton.”
 
 “Yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near Cheapside.”
 
 “That is capital,” added Miss Jane Bennet , and they both laughed heartily.
 
 “If they both had uncles enough to fill all Cheapside,” cried Bingley, “it would not make they both one jot less agreeable.”
 
 “But it must very materially lessen they both chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world,” replied Darcy.
 
 To this speech Bingley made no answer; but his sisters gave Bingley his sisters hearty assent, and indulged his sisters mirth for some time at the expense of his sisters dear friend vulgar relations.
 
 With a renewal of tenderness, however, his sisters repaired to his sisters room on leaving the dining parlour, and sat with his sisters till summoned to coffee. his sisters was still very poorly, and his sisters would not quit his sisters at all, till late in the evening, when his sisters had the comfort of seeing his sisters asleep, and when it appeared to his sisters rather right than pleasant that his sisters should go downstairs his sisters. On entering the drawing room his sisters found the whole party at loo, and was immediately invited to join the whole party at loo; but suspecting the whole party at loo to be playing high his sisters declined the whole party at loo, and making his sisters sister the excuse, said his sisters would amuse his sisters for the short time his sisters could stay below, with a book. Mr. Hurst looked at his sisters with astonishment.
 
 “Do you prefer reading to cards?” said Mr. Hurst; “that is rather singular.”
 
 “Miss Eliza Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, “despises cards. his sisters is a great reader, and has no pleasure in anything else.”
 
 “I deserve neither such praise nor such censure,” cried Elizabeth; “I am not a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things.”
 
 “In nursing your sister I am sure you have pleasure,” said Bingley; “and I hope it will soon be increased by seeing his sisters quite well.”
 
 Elizabeth thanked him from Elizabeth heart, and then walked towards a table where a few books were lying. Elizabeth immediately offered to fetch Elizabeth others; all that Elizabeth library afforded.
 
 “And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit; but I am an idle fellow, and though I have not many, I have more than I ever looked into.”
 
 Elizabeth assured him that Elizabeth could suit Elizabeth perfectly with those in the room.
 
 “I am astonished,” said Miss Bingley, “that my father should have left so small a collection of books. What a delightful library you have at Pemberley, Mr. Darcy!”
 
 “It ought to be good,” Mr. Darcy replied, “It has been the work of many generations.”
 
 “And then you have added so much to it yourself, you are always buying books.”
 
 “I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these.”
 
 “Neglect! I am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of that noble place. Charles, when you build your house, I wish your house may be half as delightful as Pemberley.”
 
 “I wish your house may.”
 
 “But I would really advise you to make your purchase in that neighbourhood, and take Pemberley for a kind of model. There is not a finer county in England than Derbyshire.”
 
 “With all my heart; I will buy Pemberley if Mr. Darcy will sell Pemberley.”
 
 “I am talking of possibilities, Charles.”
 
 “Upon my word, Caroline, I should think it more possible to get Pemberley by purchase than by imitation.”
 
 Elizabeth was so much caught by what passed, as to leave Elizabeth very little attention for Elizabeth book; and soon laying her book wholly aside, Elizabeth drew near the card table, and stationed Elizabeth between Mr. Bingley and his eldest sister, to observe the game.
 
 “Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?” said Miss Bingley; “will Miss Bingley be as tall as I am?”
 
 “I think Miss Bingley will. Miss Bingley is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet height, or rather taller.”
 
 “How I long to see Miss Bingley again! I never met with anybody who delighted me so much. Such a countenance, such manners! and so extremely accomplished for Miss Bingley age! Miss Bingley performance on the pianoforte is exquisite.”
 
 “It is amazing to me,” said Miss Bingley, “how young ladies can have patience to be so very accomplished as young ladies are.”
 
 “All young ladies accomplished! My dear Charles, what do you mean?”
 
 “Yes, all of them, I think. They all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses. I scarcely know any one who cannot do all this, and I am sure I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first time, without being informed that a young lady was very accomplished.”
 
 “Your list of the common extent of accomplishments,” said Mr. Darcy, “has too much truth. The word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen. But I am very far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general. I cannot boast of knowing more than half a dozen, in the whole range of my acquaintance, that are really accomplished.”
 
 “Nor I, I am sure,” said Mr. BingleyBingley.
 
 “Then,” observed Elizabeth, “you must comprehend a great deal in your idea of an accomplished woman.”
 
 “Yes; I do comprehend a great deal in it.”
 
 “Oh! certainly,” cried his faithful assistant, “no one can be really esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually met with. A woman must have a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing, dancing, and the modern languages, to deserve the word; and besides all this, A woman must possess a certain something in A woman air and manner of walking, the tone of A woman voice, A woman address and expressions, or the word will be but half deserved.”
 
 “All this A woman must possess,” added Mr. Darcy, “and to all this A woman must yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of A woman mind by extensive reading.”
 
 “I am no longer surprised at your knowing only six accomplished women. I rather wonder now at your knowing any.”
 
 “Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this?”
 
 “I never saw such a woman. I never saw such capacity, and taste, and application, and elegance, as you describe, united.”
 
 Mrs. Hurst and Bingley Bingley both cried out against the injustice of A woman implied doubt, and were both protesting that Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley both knew many women who answered this description, when Mr. Hurst called Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley both to order, with bitter complaints of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley both inattention to what was going forward. As all conversation was thereby at an end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the room.
 
 “Miss Eliza Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on Elizabeth, “is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other sex by undervaluing their own to the other sex by undervaluing those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other sex by undervaluing their own own; and with many men, I dare say, “ succeeds. But, in my opinion, “ is a paltry device, a very mean art.”
 
 “Undoubtedly,” replied Mr. Jones, “there is meanness in all the arts which ladies sometimes condescend to employ for captivation. Whatever bears affinity to cunning is despicable.”
 
 Bingley Bingley was not so entirely satisfied with this reply as to continue the subject.
 
 Elizabeth joined them again only to say that Elizabeth was worse, and that her sister could not leave her sister. Bingley urged Mr. Jones being sent for immediately; while Mr. Jones sisters, convinced that no country advice could be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most eminent physicians. This Elizabeth would not hear of; but Elizabeth was not so unwilling to comply with their brother proposal; and it was settled that Mr. Jones should be sent for early in the morning, if “Miss Eliza Bennet were not decidedly better. Bingley was quite uncomfortable; Mr. Jones declared that his sisters were miserable. his sisters solaced his sisters wretchedness, however, by duets after supper, while Mr. Jones could find no better relief to Mr. Jones feelings than by giving Mr. Jones housekeeper directions that every possible attention might be paid to the sick lady and “Miss Eliza Bennet .
 CHAPTER 10
9
 
 Elizabeth passed the chief of the night in 9
 
 Elizabeth sister room, and in the morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the enquiries which 9
 
 Elizabeth very early received from Mr. Bingley by a housemaid, and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on Mr. Bingley sisters. In spite of this amendment, however, 9
 
 Elizabeth requested to have a note sent to Longbourn, desiring 9
 
 Elizabeth mother to visit Jane, and form 9
 
 Elizabeth own judgment of 9
 
 Elizabeth situation. a note sent to Longbourn was immediately dispatched, and a note sent to Longbourn contents as quickly complied with. Mrs. Bennet, reached Netherfield soon after the family breakfast.
 
 Had 9
 
 Elizabeth found Jane in any apparent danger, Mrs. Bennet would have been very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing Mrs. Bennet that Mrs. Bennet illness was not alarming, Mrs. Bennet had no wish of Mrs. Bennet recovering immediately, as Mrs. Bennet restoration to health would probably remove Mrs. Bennet from Netherfield. Mrs. Bennet would not listen, therefore, to Mrs. Bennet daughter proposal of being carried home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think it at all advisable. After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss Bingley appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all attended Mrs. Bennet into the breakfast parlour. Bingley met the mother and three daughters all with hopes that Mrs. Bennet had not found Mrs. Bennet worse than Mrs. Bennet expected.
 
 “Indeed I have, sir,” was Mrs. Bennet answer. “Mrs. Bennet is a great deal too ill to be moved. Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving Mrs. Bennet. we must trespass a little longer on your kindness.”
 
 “Removed!” cried Bingley. “It must not be thought of. My sister, I am sure, will not hear of My sister removal.”
 
 “You may depend upon her removal, Mrs. Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, with cold civility, “that Mrs. Bennet Bennet shall receive every possible attention while Mrs. Bennet remains with we.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet was profuse in Mrs. Bennet acknowledgments.
 
 “I am sure,” Mrs. Bennet added, “if it was not for such good friends I do not know what would become of Mrs. Bennet, for Mrs. Bennet is very ill indeed, and suffers a vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is always the way with Mrs. Bennet, for Mrs. Bennet has, without exception, the sweetest temper I ever met with. I often tell my other girls my other girls are nothing to Mrs. Bennet. You have a sweet room here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming prospect over that gravel walk. I do not know a place in the country that is equal to Netherfield. You will not think of quitting it in a hurry, I hope, though you have but a short lease.”
 
 “Whatever I do is done in a hurry,” replied he; “and therefore if I should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in five minutes. At present, however, I consider Mrs. Bennet as quite fixed here.”
 
 “That is exactly what I should have supposed of you,” said Elizabeth.
 
 “You begin to comprehend me, do you?” cried quitting it in a hurry, turning towards Elizabeth.
 
 “Oh! yes I understand you perfectly.”
 
 “I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen through I am afraid is pitiful.”
 
 “That is as it happens. It does not necessarily follow that a deep, intricate character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours.”
 
 “Lizzy,” cried “Lizzy mother, “remember where you are, and do not run on in the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home.”
 
 “I did not know before,” continued Bingley immediately, “that you were a studier of character. It must be an amusing study.”
 
 “Yes; but intricate characters are the most amusing. intricate characters have at least that advantage.”
 
 “The country,” said Darcy, “can in general supply but few subjects for such a study. In a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and unvarying society.”
 
 “But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be observed in people themselves for ever.”
 
 “Yes, indeed,” cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by Mrs. Bennet manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood. “I assure you there is quite as much of that going on in the country as in town.”
 
 Everybody was surprised; and Darcy, after looking at Darcy for a moment, turned silently away. Mrs. Bennet, who fancied Darcy had gained a complete victory over him, continued Darcy triumph.
 
 “I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the country, for my part, except the shops and public places. the country is Mr. Bingley, is not the country, Mr. Bingley?”
 
 “When I am in the country,” Mr. Bingley replied, “I never wish to leave it; and when I am in town it is pretty much the same. They have each They advantages, and I can be equally happy in either.”
 
 “Aye that is because you have the right disposition. But that gentleman,” looking at Darcy, “seemed to think the country was nothing at all.”
 
 “Indeed, Mama, you are mistaken,” said Elizabeth, blushing for Elizabeth mother. “You quite mistook Darcy. Darcy only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in town, which you must acknowledge to be true.”
 
 “Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting with many people in this neighbourhood, I believe there are few neighbourhoods larger. I know we dine with four and twenty families.”
 
 Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Mr. Bingley to keep Elizabeth countenance. Elizabeth sister was less delicate, and directed His sister eye towards Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile. Elizabeth, for the sake of saying something that might turn Elizabeth mother thoughts, now asked Elizabeth if Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since Elizabeth coming away.
 
 “Yes, Elizabeth called yesterday with Elizabeth father. What an agreeable man Sir William is, Mr. Bingley is not Mr. Bingley? so much the man of fashion! So genteel and so easy! Mr. Bingley has always something to say to everybody. That is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves very important and never open themselves mouths, quite mistake the matter.”
 
 “Did Charlotte dine with you?”
 
 “No, Elizabeth would go home. I fancy Elizabeth was wanted about the mince pies. For my part, Mr. Bingley, I always keep servants that can do their own work; my daughters are brought up differently. But everybody is to judge for their, and the Lucases are a very good sort of girls, I assure you. It is a pity their are not handsome! Not that I think Charlotte so very plain but then Elizabeth is our particular friend.”
 
 “Elizabeth seems a very pleasant young woman,” said Bingley.
 
 “Oh! dear, yes; but you must own Elizabeth is very plain. Elizabeth has often said so, and envied me Jane beauty. I do not like to boast of my own child, but to be sure, Jane one does not often see anybody better looking. It is what everybody says. I do not trust my own partiality. When Jane one was only fifteen, there was a gentleman at my brother Gardiner in town so much in love with Jane one, that my sister in law was sure my brother Gardiner in town would make Jane one an offer before our came away. But, however, my brother Gardiner in town did not. Perhaps my brother Gardiner in town thought Jane one too young. However, my brother Gardiner in town wrote some verses on Jane one, and very pretty some verses were.”
 
 “And so ended my brother Gardiner in town affection,” said Elizabeth impatiently. “There has been many a one, I fancy, overcome in the same way. I wonder who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!”
 
 “I have been used to consider poetry as the food of love,” said Darcy.
 
 “Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may. Everything nourishes what is strong already. But if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, I am convinced that one good sonnet will starve one good sonnet entirely away.”
 
 Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made Elizabeth tremble lest Elizabeth mother should be exposing her mother again. her mother longed to speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence Mrs. Bennet began repeating her mother thanks to Mr. Bingley for Mr. Bingley kindness to Jane, with an apology for troubling Mr. Bingley also with Lizzy. Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil in Mr. Bingley answer, and forced Mr. Bingley younger sister to be civil also, and say what the occasion required. Elizabeth performed Elizabeth part indeed without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and soon afterwards ordered Mrs. Bennet carriage. Upon this signal, the youngest of Mrs. Bennet daughters put Mrs. Bennet forward. The two girls had been whispering to each other during the whole visit, and the result of it was, that the youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with having promised on Mr. Bingley first coming into the country to give a ball at Netherfield.
 
 Lydia was a stout, well grown girl of fifteen, with a fine complexion and good humoured countenance; a favourite with Lydia mother, whose affection had brought Lydia into public at an early age. Lydia had high animal spirits, and a sort of natural self consequence, which the attentions of the officers, to whom Lydia uncle good dinners and Lydia own easy manners recommended Lydia, had increased into assurance. Lydia was very equal, therefore, to address Mr. Bingley on the subject of the ball, and abruptly reminded Mr. Bingley of Mr. Bingley promise; adding, that it would be the most shameful thing in the world if Mr. Bingley did not keep it. Mr. Bingley answer to this sudden attack was delightful to their mother ear.
 
 “I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and when His sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the very day of the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing while His sister is ill.”
 
 Lydia declared Lydia satisfied. “Oh! yes it would be much better to wait till Jane was well, and by that time most likely Captain Carter would be at Meryton again. And when you have given your ball,” Jane added, “I shall insist on their giving one also. I shall tell Colonel Forster it will be quite a shame if Colonel Forster does not.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet and her daughters then departed, and Elizabeth returned instantly to Jane, leaving Elizabeth own and Elizabeth relations’ behaviour to the remarks of the two ladies and Darcy; the latter of whom, however, could not be prevailed on to join in Mrs. Bennet and her daughters censure of Elizabeth, in spite of all Miss Mr. Bingley witticisms on fine eyes.
 CHAPTER 11
10
 
 The day passed much as the day before had done. Mrs. Hurst had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid, who continued, though slowly, to mend; and in the evening Elizabeth joined Mrs. Hurst party in the drawing room. The loo table, however, did not appear. Mr. Darcy was writing, and Miss Bingley, seated near Mr. Darcy, was watching the progress of Mr. Darcy letter, and repeatedly calling off Mr. Darcy attention by messages to Mr. Darcy sister. Mrs. Hurst were at piquet, and Mrs. Hurst was observing Mrs. Hurst game.
 
 Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between Mr. Darcy and Mr. Darcy companion. The perpetual commendations of Elizabeth either on Mr. Darcy handwriting, or on the evenness of Mr. Darcy lines, or on the length of his letter, with the perfect unconcern with which Elizabeth praises were received, formed a curious dialogue, and was exactly in unison with Elizabeth opinion of each.
 
 “How delighted Mr. Darcy Mr. Darcy will be to receive such a letter!”
 
 Mr. Darcy made no answer.
 
 “You write uncommonly fast.”
 
 “You are mistaken. I write rather slowly.”
 
 “How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a year! Letters of business, too! How odious I should think Letters of business, too!”
 
 “It is fortunate, then, that Letters of business, too fall to my lot instead of to yours.”
 
 “Pray tell your sister that I long to see your sister.”
 
 “I have already told your sister so once, by your desire.”
 
 “I am afraid you do not like your pen. Let me mend your pen for yours. I mend pens remarkably well.”
 
 “Thank you but I always mend my own.”
 
 “How can you contrive to write so even?”
 
 He was silent.
 
 “Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of your sister improvement on the harp, and pray let your sister know that I am quite in raptures with your sister beautiful little design for a table, and I think it infinitely superior to Miss Grantley.”
 
 “Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again? At present I have not room to do them justice.”
 
 “Oh! it is of no consequence. I shall see your sister in January. But do you always write such charming long letters to your sister, Mr. Darcy?”
 
 “They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not for me to determine.”
 
 “It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with ease, cannot write ill.”
 
 “That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline,” cried Darcy brother, “because her brother does not write with ease. her brother studies too much for words of four syllables. Do not you, Mr. Darcy?”
 
 “My style of writing is very different from yours.”
 
 “Oh!” cried Miss Bingley, “Charles writes in the most careless way imaginable. “Charles leaves out half “Charles words, and blots the rest.”
 
 “My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express them by which means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents.”
 
 “Your humility, Mr. Bingley,” said Elizabeth, “must disarm reproof.”
 
 “Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an indirect boast.”
 
 “And which of the two do you call my little recent piece of modesty?”
 
 “The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in writing, because you consider The indirect boast as proceeding from a rapidity of thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you think at least highly interesting. The power of doing anything with quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance. When you told Mrs. Bennet this morning that if you ever resolved on quitting Netherfield you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of panegyric, of compliment to yourself and yet what is there so very laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary business undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or any one else?”
 
 “Nay,” cried Bingley, “this is too much, to remember at night all the foolish things that were said in the morning. And yet, upon my honour, I believed what I said of Nay to be true, and I believe it at this moment. At least, therefore, I did not assume the character of needless precipitance merely to show off before the ladies.”
 
 “I dare say you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that you would be gone with such celerity. Your conduct would be quite as dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were mounting your horse, a friend were to say, ‘Bingley, you had better stay till next week,’ you would probably do Bingley, you would probably not go and, at another word, might stay a month.”
 
 “You have only proved by this,” cried Elizabeth, “that Mr. Bingley did not do justice to Mr. Bingley own disposition. You have shown Mr. Bingley off now much more than Mr. Bingley did Mr. Bingley.”
 
 “I am exceedingly gratified,” said Bingley, “by your converting what my friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my temper. But I am afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by no means intend; for Mr. Bingley would certainly think the better of me, if under such a circumstance I were to give a flat denial, and ride off as fast as I could.”
 
 “Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original intention as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to the rashness of your original intention?”
 
 “Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter, Mr. Darcy must speak for Mr. Darcy.”
 
 “You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine, but which I have never acknowledged. Allowing the case, however, to stand according to your representation, you must remember, Miss Bennet, that the friend who is supposed to desire Bennet return to the house, and the delay of Bennet plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering one argument in favour of it propriety.”
 
 “To yield readily easily to the persuasion of a friend is no merit with you.”
 
 “To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of either.”
 
 “You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of friendship and affection. A regard for the requester would often make one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to reason one into it. I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about Mr. Bingley. We may as well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs, before We discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon. But in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend, where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?”
 
 “Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting between the parties?”
 
 “By all means,” cried Bingley; “let us hear all the particulars, not forgetting all the particulars comparative height and size; for that will have more weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of. I assure you that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with myself, I should not pay Darcy half so much deference. I declare I do not know a more awful object than Darcy, on particular occasions, and in particular places; at Darcy own house especially, and of a Sunday evening, when Darcy has nothing to do.”
 
 Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought Elizabeth could perceive that Darcy was rather offended, and therefore checked Elizabeth laugh. Bingley Bingley warmly resented the indignity Darcy had received, in an expostulation with Elizabeth brother for talking such nonsense.
 
 “I see your design, Bingley,” said Darcy friend. “You dislike an argument, and want to silence this.”
 
 “Perhaps I do. Arguments are too much like disputes. If you and Miss Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall be very thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me.”
 
 “What you ask,” said Elizabeth, “is no sacrifice on my side; and Darcy had much better finish Darcy letter.”
 
 Darcy took Darcy advice, and did finish his letter.
 
 When that business was over, Darcy applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth for the indulgence of some music. Bingley moved with alacrity to the pianoforte, and after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead the way, which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, Elizabeth seated Elizabeth.
 
 Mrs. Hurst sang with your sister, and while they were thus employed, Elizabeth could not help observing, as Elizabeth turned over some music books that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr. Darcy eyes were fixed on Elizabeth. Elizabeth hardly knew how to suppose that Elizabeth could be an object of admiration to so great a man; and yet that so great a man should look at Elizabeth because so great a man disliked Elizabeth, was still more strange. Elizabeth could only imagine, however, at last, that Elizabeth drew so great a man notice because there was a something about Elizabeth more wrong and reprehensible, according to so great a man ideas of right, than in any other person present. The supposition did not pain Elizabeth. Elizabeth liked so great a man too little to care for so great a man approbation.
 
 After playing some Italian songs, Bingley Bingley varied the charm by a lively Scotch air; and soon afterwards Mr. Darcy, drawing near Elizabeth, said to Elizabeth 
 
 “Do not you feel a great inclination, Miss Bennet, to seize such an opportunity of dancing a reel?”
 
 Elizabeth smiled, but made no answer. He repeated the question, with some surprise at Elizabeth silence.
 
 “Oh!” said Elizabeth, “I heard you before; but I could not immediately determine what to say in reply. You wanted me, I know, to say ‘Yes,’ that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste; but I always delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and cheating a person of their premeditated contempt. I have, therefore, made up my mind to tell you, that I do not want to dance a reel at all and now despise me if you dare.”
 
 “Indeed I do not dare.”
 
 Elizabeth, having rather expected to affront Elizabeth, was amazed at Elizabeth gallantry; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in Elizabeth manner which made it difficult for Elizabeth to affront anybody; and Mr. Darcy had never been so bewitched by any woman as Mr. Darcy was by Mr. Darcy. Mr. Darcy really believed, that were it not for the inferiority of Elizabeth connections, Mr. Darcy should be in some danger.
 
 Bingley saw, or suspected enough to be jealous; and Bingley great anxiety for the recovery of Jane Jane received some assistance from Jane desire of getting rid of Elizabeth.
 
 Jane often tried to provoke Mr. Darcy into disliking Jane guest, by talking of their supposed marriage, and planning Mr. Darcy happiness in such an alliance.
 
 “I hope,” said Jane, as they were walking together in the shrubbery the next day, “you will give your mother in law a few hints, when this desirable event takes place, as to the advantage of holding Jane tongue; and if you can compass it, do cure the younger girls of running after the officers. And, if I may mention so delicate a subject, endeavour to check that little something, bordering on conceit and impertinence, which your lady possesses.”
 
 “Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?”
 
 “Oh! yes. Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Philips be placed in the gallery at Pemberley. Put the portraits of your uncle and aunt Philips next to your great uncle the judge. the portraits of your uncle and aunt Philips are in the same profession, you know, only in different lines. As for your Elizabeth picture, you must not attempt to have your Elizabeth picture taken, for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?”
 
 “It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression, but their colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine, might be copied.”
 
 At that moment their were met from another walk by Mrs. Hurst and Elizabeth herself.
 
 “I did not know that you intended to walk,” said Miss Bingley, in some confusion, lest Miss Bingley, in some confusion had been overheard.
 
 “You used us abominably ill,” answered Mrs. Hurst, “running away without telling us that you were coming out.”
 
 Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, Mrs. Hurst left Elizabeth to walk by Mrs. Hurst. The path just admitted three. Darcy felt their rudeness, and immediately said, 
 
 “This walk is not wide enough for our party. us had better go into the avenue.”
 
 But Elizabeth, who had not the least inclination to remain with them, laughingly answered,
 
 “No, no; stay where you are. You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage. The picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a fourth. Good bye.”
 
 Mrs. Hurst then ran gaily off, rejoicing as Mrs. Hurst rambled about, in the hope of being at home again in a day or two. Jane was already so much recovered as to intend leaving Jane room for a couple of hours that evening.
 CHAPTER 12
11
 
 When the ladies removed after dinner, Elizabeth ran up to Elizabeth sister, and seeing Elizabeth well guarded from cold, attended Elizabeth into the drawing room, where Elizabeth was welcomed by Elizabeth two friends with many professions of pleasure; and Elizabeth had never seen her two friends so agreeable as her two friends were during the hour which passed before the gentlemen appeared. her two friends powers of conversation were considerable. her two friends could describe an entertainment with accuracy, relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh at her two friends acquaintance with spirit.
 
 But when the gentlemen entered, Jane was no longer the first object; Miss Bingley eyes were instantly turned toward Darcy, and Jane had something to say to Darcy before Darcy had advanced many steps. Darcy addressed Darcy to Miss Bennet, with a polite congratulation; Mr. Hurst also made Jane a slight bow, and said Darcy was “very glad;” but diffuseness and warmth remained for Bingley salutation. Darcy was full of joy and attention. The first half hour was spent in piling up the fire, lest Jane should suffer from the change of room; and Jane removed at Darcy desire to the other side of the fireplace, that Jane might be further from the door. Darcy then sat down by Jane, and talked scarcely to anyone else. Elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great delight.
 
 When tea was over, Mr. Hurst reminded Mr. Hurst sister in law of the card table but in vain. Elizabeth had obtained private intelligence that Mr. Darcy did not wish for cards; and Mr. Hurst soon found even Mr. Hurst open petition rejected. Elizabeth assured Mr. Hurst that no one intended to play, and the silence of the whole party on the subject seemed to justify Elizabeth. Mr. Hurst had therefore nothing to do, but to stretch Mr. Hurst on one of the sofas and go to sleep. Mr. Darcy took up a book; Miss Bingley did the same; and Mrs. Hurst, principally occupied in playing with Mrs. Hurst bracelets and rings, joined now and then in Mrs. Hurst brother conversation with Miss Bennet.
 
 Miss Miss Bingley attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr. Darcy progress through a book, as in reading Mrs. Hurst own; and Mrs. Hurst was perpetually either making some enquiry, or looking at Mr. Darcy page. Mrs. Hurst could not win Mr. Darcy, however, to any conversation; Mr. Darcy merely answered Mrs. Hurst question, and read on. At length, quite exhausted by the attempt to be amused with Mrs. Hurst own book, which Mrs. Hurst had only chosen because it was the second volume of Mr. Darcy, Mrs. Hurst gave a great yawn and said, “How pleasant it is to spend an evening in this way! I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of anything than of a book! When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not an excellent library.”
 
 No one made any reply. Mrs. Hurst then yawned again, threw aside Mrs. Hurst , and cast Mrs. Hurst eyes round the room in quest for some amusement; when hearing Mrs. Hurst brother mentioning a ball to Miss Bennet, Mrs. Hurst turned suddenly towards her brother and said:
 
 “By the bye, Charles, are you really serious in meditating a dance at Netherfield? I would advise you, before you determine on it, to consult the wishes of the present party; I am much mistaken if there are not some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment than a pleasure.”
 
 “If you mean Darcy,” cried her brother, “her brother may go to bed, if her brother chooses, before it begins but as for a ball to Miss Bennet, it is quite a settled thing; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough, I shall send round my cards.”
 
 “I should like balls infinitely better,” Mrs. Hurst replied, “if they were carried on in a different manner; but there is something insufferably tedious in the usual process of such a meeting. It would surely be much more rational if conversation instead of dancing were made the order of the day.”
 
 “Much more rational, my dear Caroline, I dare say, but it would not be near so much like a ball.”
 
 Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards Miss Bingley got up and walked about the room. Miss Bingley figure was elegant, and Miss Bingley walked well; but Darcy, at whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly studious. In the desperation of Miss Bingley feelings, Miss Bingley resolved on one effort more, and, turning to Elizabeth, said:
 
 “Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take a turn about the room. I assure you it is very refreshing after sitting so long in one attitude.”
 
 Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately. Miss Bingley Miss Bingley succeeded no less in the real object of Elizabeth civility; Darcy looked up. Darcy was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as Elizabeth could be, and unconsciously closed Darcy book. Darcy was directly invited to join their party, but Darcy declined it, observing that Darcy could imagine but two motives for their choosing to walk up and down the room together, with either of which motives Darcy joining their would interfere. “What could Darcy mean? Elizabeth was dying to know what could be Darcy meaning?” and asked Elizabeth whether Elizabeth could at all understand Darcy?
 
 “Not at all,” was Elizabeth answer; “but depend upon it, Darcy means to be severe on us, and us surest way of disappointing Darcy will be to ask nothing about it.”
 
 Miss Bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. Darcy in anything, and persevered therefore in requiring an explanation of Mr. Darcy two motives.
 
 “I have not the smallest objection to explaining them,” said he, as soon as Elizabeth allowed he to speak. “You either choose this method of passing the evening because you are in each other confidence, and have secret affairs to discuss, or because you are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage in walking; if the first, I would be completely in your way, and if the second, I can admire you much better as I sit by the fire.”
 
 “Oh! shocking!” cried Miss Bingley. “I never heard anything so abominable. How shall we punish anything so abominable for such a speech?”
 
 “Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said Elizabeth. “We can all plague and punish one another. Tease anything so abominable laugh at anything so abominable. Intimate as you are, you must know how it is to be done.”
 
 “But upon my honour, I do not. I do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me that. Tease calmness of manner and presence of mind! No, no; I feel anything so abominable may defy us there. And as to laughter, us will not expose us, if you please, by Mr. Darcy. Mr. Darcy may hug Mr. Darcy.”
 
 “Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried Elizabeth. “That is an uncommon advantage, and uncommon I hope it will continue, for it would be a great loss to me to have many such acquaintances. I dearly love a laugh.”
 
 “Miss Bingley,” said he, “has given me more credit than can be. The wisest and the best of men nay, the wisest and best of men actions may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a joke.”
 
 “Certainly,” replied Elizabeth there are such people, but I hope I am not one of such people. I hope I never ridicule what is wise and good. Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, do divert me, I own, and I laugh at such people whenever I can. But such people, I suppose, are precisely what you are without.”
 
 “Perhaps that is not possible for anyone. But it has been the study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong understanding to ridicule.”
 
 “Such as vanity and pride.”
 
 “Yes, vanity is a weakness indeed. But pride where there is a real superiority of mind, pride will be always under good regulation.”
 
 Elizabeth turned away to hide a smile.
 
 “Your examination of Mr. Darcy is over, I presume,” said Miss Bingley; “and pray what is the result?”
 
 “I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect. Mr. Darcy owns it himself without disguise.”
 
 “No,” said Mr. Darcy, “I have made no such pretension. I have faults enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding. My temper I dare not vouch for. It is, I believe, too little yielding certainly too little for the convenience of the world. I cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as I ought, nor others offenses against myself. My feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move others. My temper would perhaps be called resentful. My good opinion once lost, is lost forever.”
 
 “That is a failing indeed!” cried Elizabeth. “Implacable resentment is a shade in a character. But you have chosen your fault well. I really cannot laugh at your fault. You are safe from myself.”
 
 “There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.”
 
 “And your defect is to hate everybody.”
 
 “And yours,” myself replied with a smile, “is willfully to misunderstand And yours.”
 
 “Do let “ have a little music,” cried Miss Bingley, tired of a conversation in which she had no share. “Louisa, you will not mind my waking Mr. Hurst?”
 
 Louisa sister had not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was opened; and Mr. Darcy, after a few moments’ recollection, was not sorry for the pianoforte. Mr. Hurst began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too much attention.
 CHAPTER 13
12
 
 In consequence of an agreement between the sisters, Elizabeth wrote the next morning to their mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for their in the course of the day. But Mrs. Bennet, who had calculated on Elizabeth daughters remaining at Netherfield till the following Tuesday, which would exactly finish Jane week, could not bring Elizabeth to receive Mrs. Bennet, who had calculated on her daughters remaining at Netherfield till the following Tuesday, which would exactly finish Jane week with pleasure before. Elizabeth answer, therefore, was not propitious, at least not to Elizabeth wishes, for Elizabeth was impatient to get home. Elizabeth sent least not word that least not could not possibly have the carriage before Tuesday; and in Elizabeth postscript the carriage was added, that if Mr. Bingley and Bennet sister pressed least not to stay longer, Elizabeth could spare least not very well. Against staying longer, however, Elizabeth was positively resolved nor did Elizabeth much expect it would be asked; and fearful, on the contrary, as being considered as intruding themselves needlessly long, Elizabeth urged Jane to borrow the carriage immediately, and at length the carriage was settled that themselves original design of leaving Netherfield that morning should be mentioned, and the request made.
 
 The communication excited many professions of concern; and enough was said of wishing many professions of concern to stay at least till the following day to work on Jane; and till the morrow many professions of concern going was deferred. Miss Bingley was then sorry that Miss Bingley had proposed the delay, for Miss Bingley jealousy and dislike of one sister much exceeded Miss Bingley affection for the other.
 
 The master of the house heard with real sorrow that they were to go so soon, and repeatedly tried to persuade Miss Bennet that it would not be safe for Miss Bennet that Miss Bennet was not enough recovered; but Jane was firm where Jane felt Jane to be right.
 
 To Mr. Darcy it was welcome intelligence Elizabeth had been at Netherfield long enough. Elizabeth attracted Mr. Darcy more than Mr. Darcy liked and Miss Bingley was uncivil to Elizabeth, and more teasing than usual to Mr. Darcy. Mr. Darcy wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration should now escape Mr. Darcy, nothing that could elevate Elizabeth with the hope of influencing Mr. Darcy felicity; sensible that if such an idea had been suggested, Mr. Darcy behaviour during the last day must have material weight in confirming or crushing it. Steady to Mr. Darcy purpose, Mr. Darcy scarcely spoke ten words to Elizabeth through the whole of Saturday, and though they were at one time left by they for half an hour, Mr. Darcy adhered most conscientiously to Mr. Darcy book, and would not even look at Elizabeth.
 
 On Sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost all, took place. Miss Bingley civility to Elizabeth increased at last very rapidly, as well as Elizabeth affection for Jane; and when as well parted, after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give Jane to see Jane either at Longbourn or Netherfield, and embracing Jane most tenderly, Jane even shook hands with the former. Elizabeth took leave of the whole party in the liveliest of spirits.
 
 the whole party were not welcomed home very cordially by the whole party mother. Mrs. Bennet wondered at the whole party coming, and thought the whole party very wrong to give so much trouble, and was sure Jane would have caught cold again. But the whole party father, though very laconic in their father expressions of pleasure, was really glad to see the whole party; their father had felt the whole party importance in the family circle. The evening conversation, when the whole party were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and Elizabeth.
 
 the whole party found Mary, as usual, deep in the study of thorough bass and human nature; and had some extracts to admire, and some new observations of threadbare morality to listen to. Catherine and Lydia had information for Catherine and Lydia of a different sort. Much had been done and much had been said in the regiment since the preceding Wednesday; several of the officers had dined lately with the officers uncle, a private had been flogged, and it had actually been hinted that Colonel Forster was going to be married.
 CHAPTER 14
13
 
 “I hope, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet to Mr. Bennet wife, as they were at breakfast the next morning, “that you have ordered a good dinner to day, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party.”
 
 “Who do you mean, my dear? I know of nobody that is coming, I am sure, unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in and I hope my dinners are good enough for Charlotte Lucas. I do not believe Charlotte Lucas often sees such at home.”
 
 “The person of whom I speak is a gentleman, and a stranger.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet eyes sparkled. “A gentleman and a stranger! It is Mr. Bingley, I am sure! Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad to see Mr. Bingley. But good Lord! how unlucky! There is not a bit of fish to be got to day. Lydia, my love, ring the bell I must speak to Hill this moment.”
 
 “It is not Mr. Bingley,” said Mr. Bingley husband; “it is a person whom I never saw in the whole course of my life.”
 
 This roused a general astonishment; and a general astonishment had the pleasure of being eagerly questioned by a general astonishment wife and a general astonishment five daughters at once.
 
 After amusing a general astonishment some time with their curiosity, a general astonishment thus explained:
 
 “About a month ago I received this letter; and about a fortnight ago I answered this letter, for I thought this letter a case of some delicacy, and requiring early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins, who, when I am dead, may turn you all out of this house as soon as he pleases.”
 
 “Oh! my dear,” cried he wife, “I cannot bear to hear that mentioned. Pray do not talk of he. I do think it is the hardest thing in the world, that your estate should be entailed away from your own children; and I am sure, if I had been you, I should have tried long ago to do something or other about it.”
 
 Jane and Elizabeth tried to explain to Jane the nature of an entail. Jane and Elizabeth had often attempted to do it before, but it was a subject on which Mrs. Bennet was beyond the reach of reason, and Mrs. Bennet continued to rail bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of five daughters, in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about.
 
 “It certainly is a most iniquitous affair,” said Mrs. Bennet, “and nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn. But if you will listen to Mr. Collins letter, you may perhaps be a little softened by Mr. Collins manner of expressing Mr. Collins.”
 
 “No, that I am sure I shall not; and I think it is very impertinent of Mr. Collins to write to you at all, and very hypocritical. I hate such false friends. Why could Mr. Collins not keep on quarreling with you, as Mr. Collins father did before Mr. Collins?”
 
 “Why, indeed; Mr. Collins does seem to have had some filial scruples on that head, as you will hear.”
 
 “Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent, 15th October.
 
 “Dear Sir, 
 “The disagreement subsisting between yourself and his father always gave me much uneasiness, and since I have had the misfortune to lose his father, I have frequently wished to heal the breach; but for some time I was kept back by my own doubts, fearing lest it might seem disrespectful to his father memory for me to be on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased his father to be at variance. ‘There, Mrs. Bennet.’ My mind, however, is now made up on the subject, for having received ordination at Easter, I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which are instituted by the Church of England. As a clergyman, moreover, I feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing of peace in all families within the reach of my influence; and on these grounds I flatter myself that my present overtures are highly commendable, and that the circumstance of my being next in the entail of Longbourn estate will be kindly overlooked on your side, and not lead you to reject the offered olive branch. I cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the means of injuring your amiable daughters, and beg leave to apologise for it, as well as to assure you of my readiness to make as well every possible amends but of this hereafter. If you should have no objection to receive me into your house, I propose myself the satisfaction of waiting on you and your family, Monday, November 18th, by four o’clock, and shall probably trespass on your hospitality till the Saturday se’ennight following, which I can do without any inconvenience, as Lady Catherine is far from objecting to my occasional absence on a Sunday, provided that some other clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day. I remain, myself, with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your well wisher and friend,
 
 “WILLIAM COLLINS”
 
 “At four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace making gentleman,” said Mr. Bennet, as Mr. Bennet folded up the letter. “Mr. Bennet seems to be a most conscientious and polite young man, upon my word, and I doubt not will prove a valuable acquaintance, especially if Lady Catherine should be so indulgent as to let Mr. Bennet come to we again.”
 
 “There is some sense in what Mr. Bennet says about the girls, however, and if Mr. Bennet is disposed to make the girls any amends, I shall not be the person to discourage Mr. Bennet.”
 
 “Though it is difficult,” said Jane, “to guess in what way Mr. Bennet can mean to make us the atonement Mr. Bennet thinks us due, the wish is certainly to Mr. Bennet credit.”
 
 Elizabeth was chiefly struck by Elizabeth extraordinary deference for Lady Catherine, and Elizabeth kind intention of christening, marrying, and burying Elizabeth parishioners whenever it were required.
 
 “Elizabeth must be an oddity, I think,” said Elizabeth. “I cannot make Elizabeth out. There is something very pompous in Elizabeth style. And what can Elizabeth mean by apologising for being next in the entail? us cannot suppose Elizabeth would help it if Elizabeth could. Could Elizabeth be a sensible man, sir?”
 
 “No, my dear, I think not. I have great hopes of finding Elizabeth quite the reverse. There is a mixture of servility and self importance in Elizabeth letter, which promises well. I am impatient to see Elizabeth.”
 
 “In point of composition,” said Mary, “the letter does not seem defective. The idea of the olive branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet I think The idea of the olive branch is well expressed.”
 
 To Catherine and Lydia, neither the letter nor The idea of the olive branch writer were in any degree interesting. It was next to impossible that their cousin should come in a scarlet coat, and their cousin should come in a scarlet coat was now some weeks since their had received pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour. As for their mother, the letter had done away much of her ill will, and her was preparing to see the letter with a degree of composure which astonished her husband and daughters.
 
 Collins was punctual to Collins time, and was received with great politeness by the whole family. Collins indeed said little; but the ladies were ready enough to talk, and Collins seemed neither in need of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent Collins. Collins was a tall, heavy looking young man of five and twenty. Collins air was grave and stately, and Collins manners were very formal. Collins had not been long seated before Collins complimented Mrs. Bennet on having so fine a family of daughters; said Collins had heard much of so fine a family of daughters beauty, but that in this instance fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that Collins did not doubt Mrs. Bennet seeing them all in due time disposed of in marriage. This gallantry was not much to the taste of some of This gallantry hearers; but Mrs. Bennet, who quarreled with no compliments, answered most readily.
 
 “You are very kind, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it may prove so, for else they will be destitute enough. Things are settled so oddly.”
 
 “You allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate.”
 
 “Ah! sir, I do indeed. It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you must confess. Not that I mean to find fault with you, for such things I know are all chance in this world. There is no knowing how estates will go when once estates come to be entailed.”
 
 “I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate. But I can assure the young ladies that I come prepared to admire the young ladies. At present I will not say more; but, perhaps, when we are better acquainted ”
 
 He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and my poor girls smiled on each other. my poor girls were not the only objects of Mr. Collins admiration. The hall, the dining room, and all its furniture, were examined and praised; and his commendation of everything would have touched Mrs. Bennet heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his own future property. The dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and his begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellency of its cooking was owing. But his was set right there by Mrs. Bennet, who assured his with some asperity that they were very well able to keep a good cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen. his begged pardon for having displeased her. In a softened tone her declared her not at all offended; but his continued to apologise for about a quarter of an hour.
 CHAPTER 15
14
 
 During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the servants were withdrawn, Mr. Bennet thought it time to have some conversation with Mr. Bennet guest, and therefore started a subject in which Mr. Bennet expected Mr. Bennet to shine, by observing that Mr. Bennet seemed very fortunate in Mr. Bennet patroness. Lady Catherine de Bourgh attention to Lady Catherine de Bourgh wishes, and consideration for Lady Catherine de Bourgh comfort, appeared very remarkable. Mr. Bennet could not have chosen better. Lady Catherine de Bourgh was eloquent in Lady Catherine de Bourgh praise. The subject elevated Mr. Bennet to more than usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect Mr. Bennet protested that “Mr. Bennet had never in Mr. Bennet life witnessed such behaviour in a person of rank such affability and condescension, as Mr. Bennet had Mr. Bennet experienced from Lady Catherine. Lady Catherine de Bourgh had been graciously pleased to approve of both of the discourses which Mr. Bennet had already had the honour of preaching before Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Lady Catherine de Bourgh had also asked Mr. Bennet twice to dine at Rosings, and had sent for Mr. Bennet only the Saturday before, to make up Lady Catherine de Bourgh pool of quadrille in the evening. Lady Catherine was reckoned proud by many people Mr. Bennet knew, but Mr. Bennet had never seen anything but affability in Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Lady Catherine had always spoken to Mr. Bennet as Lady Catherine would to any other gentleman; Lady Catherine made not the smallest objection to Mr. Bennet joining in the society of the neighbourhood nor to Mr. Bennet leaving the parish occasionally for a week or two, to visit Mr. Bennet relations. Lady Catherine had even condescended to advise Mr. Bennet to marry as soon as Mr. Bennet could, provided Mr. Bennet chose with discretion; and had once paid Mr. Bennet a visit in Mr. Bennet humble parsonage, where Lady Catherine had perfectly approved all the alterations Mr. Bennet had been making, and had even vouchsafed to suggest some Lady Catherine some shelves in the closet up stairs.”
 
 “That is all very proper and civil, I am sure,” said Mrs. Bennet, “and I dare say Mrs. Bennet is a very agreeable woman. It is a pity that great ladies in general are not more like Mrs. Bennet. Does Mrs. Bennet live near you, sir?”
 
 “The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane from Rosings Park, Mrs. Bennet ladyship residence.”
 
 “I think you said Mrs. Bennet was a widow, sir? Has Mrs. Bennet any family?”
 
 “Mrs. Bennet has only one daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very extensive property.”
 
 “Ah!” said Mrs. Bennet, shaking Mrs. Bennet head, “then Mrs. Bennet is better off than many girls. And what sort of Lady Catherine is Mrs. Bennet? Is Mrs. Bennet handsome?”
 
 “Mrs. Bennet is a most charming young lady indeed. Mrs. Bennet says that, in point of true beauty, Miss de Bourgh is far superior to the handsomest of Mrs. Bennet sex, because there is that in Mrs. Bennet features which marks the young lady of distinguished birth. Mrs. Bennet is unfortunately of a sickly constitution, which has prevented Mrs. Bennet from making that progress in many accomplishments which Mrs. Bennet could not have otherwise failed of, as I am informed by the lady who superintended Mrs. Bennet education, and who still resides with them. But Mrs. Bennet is perfectly amiable, and often condescends to drive by my humble abode in Mrs. Bennet little phaeton and ponies.”
 
 “Has Mrs. Bennet been presented? I do not remember Mrs. Bennet name among the ladies at court.”
 
 “Mrs. Bennet indifferent state of health unhappily prevents Her indifferent state of health being in town; and by that means, as I told Mrs. Bennet one day, has deprived the British court of British brightest ornament. Mrs. Bennet ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies. I have more than once observed to Mrs. Bennet, that Mrs. Bennet charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess, and that the most elevated rank, instead of giving her charming daughter consequence, would be adorned by her charming daughter. her charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess, and that the most elevated rank, instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by her are the kind of little things which please her charming daughter , and Her ladyship is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound to pay.”
 
 “You judge very properly,” said Mr. Bennet, “and it is happy for you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy. May I ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are the result of previous study?”
 
 “They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time, and though I sometimes amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such little elegant compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions, I always wish to give They as unstudied an air as possible.”
 
 Mr. Bennet expectations were fully answered. His cousin was as absurd as His had hoped, and His listened to His with the keenest enjoyment, maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance, and, except in an occasional glance at Elizabeth, requiring no partner in His pleasure.
 
 By tea time, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr. Bennet was glad to take Mr. Bennet guest into the drawing room again, and, when tea was over, glad to invite Mr. Bennet to read aloud to the ladies. His readily assented, and a book was produced; but, on beholding a book (for everything announced a book to be from a circulating library), His started back, and begging pardon, protested that His never read novels. Kitty stared at His, and Lydia exclaimed. Other books were produced, and after some deliberation His chose Fordyce Sermons. Lydia gaped as His opened the volume, and before His had, with very monotonous solemnity, read three pages, Lydia interrupted His with:
 
 “Do you know, mamma, that my uncle Phillips talks of turning away Richard; and if my uncle Phillips talks of turning away Richard does, Colonel Forster will hire Colonel Forster. My aunt told me so My aunt on Saturday. I shall walk to Meryton to morrow to hear more about Meryton, and to ask when Mr. Denny comes back from town.”
 
 Lydia was bid by Lydia two eldest sisters to hold Lydia tongue; but Mr. Collins, much offended, laid aside Mr. Denny book, and said:
 
 “I have often observed how little young ladies are interested by books of a serious stamp, though written solely for how little young ladies benefit. It amazes me, I confess; for, certainly, there can be nothing so advantageous to how little young ladies as instruction. But I will no longer importune my young cousin.”
 
 Then turning to Mr. Bennet, Mr. Bennet offered Mr. Bennet as Mr. Bennet antagonist at backgammon. Mr. Bennet accepted the challenge, observing that Mr. Bennet acted very wisely in leaving the girls to the girls own trifling amusements. Mrs. Bennet and her daughters apologised most civilly for Lydia interruption, and promised that it should not occur again, if Mr. Bennet would resume Mr. Bennet ; but Mr. Collins, after assuring Mrs. Bennet and her daughters that Mr. Collins bore Mr. Collins young cousin no ill will, and should never resent her behaviour as any affront, seated Mr. Collins at another table with Mr. Bennet, and prepared for backgammon.
 CHAPTER 16
15
 
 Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part of Mr. Collins life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and miserly father; and though Mr. Collins belonged to one of the universities, Mr. Collins had merely kept the necessary terms, without forming at it any useful acquaintance. The subjection in which Mr. Collins father had brought Mr. Collins up had given Mr. Collins originally great humility of manner; but it was now a good deal counteracted by the self conceit of a weak head, living in retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity. A fortunate chance had recommended Mr. Collins to Lady Catherine de Bourgh when the living of Hunsford was vacant; and the respect which Mr. Collins felt for Lady Catherine de Bourgh high rank, and Mr. Collins veneration for Lady Catherine de Bourgh as Mr. Collins patroness, mingling with a very good opinion of Mr. Collins, of Mr. Collins authority as a clergyman, and Mr. Collins right as a rector, made Mr. Collins altogether a mixture of pride and obsequiousness, self importance and humility.
 
 Having now a good house and a very sufficient income, Mr. Collins intended to marry; and in seeking a reconciliation with the Longbourn family Mr. Collins had a wife in view, as Mr. Collins meant to choose one of the daughters, if Mr. Collins found them as handsome and amiable as them were represented by common report. This was Mr. Collins plan of amends of atonement for inheriting their father estate; and Mr. Collins thought it an excellent one, full of eligibility and suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on Mr. Collins own part.
 
 his plan of amends of atonement for inheriting their father estate did not vary on seeing them. Miss Bennet lovely face confirmed Bennet views, and established all Bennet strictest notions of what was due to seniority; and for the first evening Miss Bennet was Bennet settled choice. The next morning, however, made an alteration; for in a quarter of an hour tête à tête with Miss Bennet before breakfast, a conversation beginning with Miss Bennet parsonage house, and leading naturally to the avowal of Miss Bennet hopes, that a mistress might be found for it at Longbourn, produced from a mistress, amid very complaisant smiles and general encouragement, a caution against the very Jane Miss Bennet had fixed on. “As to Jane younger daughters, Jane could not take upon Jane to say Jane could not positively answer but Jane did not know of any prepossession; Jane eldest daughter, Jane must just mention Jane felt it incumbent on Jane to hint, was likely to be very soon engaged.”
 
 Mr. Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabeth and it was soon done done while Miss Bennet was stirring the fire. Elizabeth, equally next to Jane in birth and beauty, succeeded Jane of course.
 
 Miss Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that Miss Bennet might soon have two daughters married; and the man whom Miss Bennet could not bear to speak of the day before was now high in Miss Bennet good graces.
 
 Lydia intention of walking to Meryton was not forgotten; every sister except Mary agreed to go with Mary; and Mr. Collins was to attend every sister except Mary, at the request of Mr. Bennet, who was most anxious to get rid of Mr. Collins, and have Mr. Collins library to Mr. Collins; for thither Mr. Collins had followed Mr. Collins after breakfast; and there Mr. Collins would continue, nominally engaged with one of the largest folios in the collection, but really talking to Miss Bennet, with little cessation, of Miss Bennet house and garden at Hunsford. Such doings discomposed Miss Bennet exceedingly. In his library to himself Miss Bennet had been always sure of leisure and tranquillity; and though prepared, as Miss Bennet told Elizabeth, to meet with folly and conceit in every other room of the house, Miss Bennet was used to be free from prepared, as he told Elizabeth, to meet with folly and conceit in every other room of the house there; Miss Bennet civility, therefore, was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to join Mr. Collins daughters in prepared, as he told Elizabeth, to meet with folly and conceit in every other room of the house walk; and Mr. Collins, being in fact much better fitted for a walker than a reader, was extremely pleased to close Miss Bennet large book, and go.
 
 In pompous nothings on Miss Bennet side, and civil assents on that of Miss Bennet cousins, their time passed till their entered Meryton. The attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by Miss Bennet. their eyes were immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the officers, and nothing less than a very smart bonnet indeed, or a really new muslin in a shop window, could recall Their eyes.
 
 But the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man, whom they had never seen before, of most gentlemanlike appearance, walking with another officer on the other side of the way. another officer was Mr. Denny. All were struck with the stranger air, all wondered who another officer could be; and Kitty and Lydia, determined if possible to find out, led the way across the street, under pretense of wanting something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained the pavement when the two gentlemen, turning back, had reached the same spot. Mr. Denny addressed the two gentlemen directly, and entreated permission to introduce Mr. Denny friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with Mr. Denny the day before from town, and Mr. Denny was happy to say had accepted a commission in the two gentlemen corps. This was exactly as it should be; for the young man wanted only regimentals to make the young man completely charming. the young man appearance was greatly in the young man favour; the young man had all the best part of beauty, a fine countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address. The introduction was followed up on the young man side by a happy readiness of conversation a readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably, when the sound of horses drew the whole party notice, and Darcy and Bingley were seen riding down the street. On distinguishing the ladies of the group, the two gentlemen came directly towards the two gentlemen, and began the usual civilities. Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the principal object. He was then, He said, on He way to Longbourn on purpose to enquire after Longbourn. Darcy corroborated it with a bow, and was beginning to determine not to fix Darcy eyes on Elizabeth, when they were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger, and Elizabeth happening to see the countenance of both as they looked at each other, was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting. Both changed colour, one looked white, the other red. Mr. Wickham, after a few moments, touched Mr. Wickham hat a salutation which Darcy just deigned to return. What could be the meaning of it? It was impossible to imagine; it was impossible not to long to know.
 
 In another minute, Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with Mr. Wickham friend.
 
 Mr. Denny and Mr. Wickham walked with the young ladies to the door of Mr. Phillip house, and then made Mr. Denny and Mr. Wickham bows, in spite of Miss Lydia pressing entreaties that Mr. Denny and Mr. Wickham should come in, and even in spite of Mrs. Phillips throwing up the parlour window and loudly seconding the invitation.
 
 Mrs. Phillips was always glad to see Mrs. Phillips nieces; and the two eldest, from her nieces recent absence, were particularly welcome, and Mrs. Phillips was eagerly expressing Mrs. Phillips surprise at her nieces sudden return home, which, as her nieces own carriage had not fetched her nieces, Mrs. Phillips should have known nothing about, if Mrs. Phillips had not happened to see Mr. Jones shop boy in the street, who had told Mrs. Phillips that her nieces were not to send any more draughts to Netherfield because the Miss Bennets were come away, when Mrs. Phillips civility was claimed towards Mr. Collins by Jane introduction of Mr. Collins. Mrs. Phillips received Mr. Collins with Mrs. Phillips very best politeness, which Mr. Collins returned with as much more, apologising for Mr. Collins intrusion, without any previous acquaintance with Mrs. Phillips, which Mr. Collins could not help flattering Mr. Collins, however, might be justified by Mr. Collins relationship to the young ladies who introduced Mr. Collins to Mrs. Phillips notice. Mrs. Phillips was quite awed by such an excess of good breeding; but Mrs. Phillips contemplation of one stranger was soon put to an end by exclamations and enquiries about the other; of whom, however, Mrs. Phillips could only tell Mrs. Phillips nieces what nieces already knew, that Mr. Denny had brought Mr. Collins from London, and that Mr. Collins was to have a lieutenant commission in the shire. Mrs. Phillips had been watching Mr. Collins the last hour, Mrs. Phillips said, as Mr. Collins walked up and down the street, and had Mr. Wickham appeared, Kitty and Lydia would certainly have continued the occupation, but unluckily no one passed windows now except a few of the officers, who, in comparison with the stranger, were become “stupid, disagreeable fellows.” Some of them were to dine with the Phillipses the next day, and Some of them aunt promised to make their aunt husband call on Mr. Wickham, and give her husband an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn would come in the evening. This was agreed to, and Mrs. Phillips protested that Some of them would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards. The prospect of such delights was very cheering, and Some of them parted in mutual good spirits. Mr. Collins repeated Mr. Collins apologies in quitting the room, and was assured with unwearying civility that Some of them were perfectly needless.
 
 As Some of them walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what Elizabeth had seen pass between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have defended either or both, had Some of them appeared to be in the wrong, Elizabeth could no more explain such behaviour than Elizabeth sister.
 
 Mr. Collins on Mr. Collins return highly gratified Miss Bennet by admiring Mrs. Phillips manners and politeness. Mr. Collins protested that, except Lady Catherine and Lady Catherine daughter, Mr. Collins had never seen a more elegant woman; for Lady Catherine had not only received Mr. Collins with the utmost civility, but even pointedly included Mr. Collins in Lady Catherine invitation for the next evening, although utterly unknown to Lady Catherine before. Something, Mr. Collins supposed, might be attributed to Mr. Collins connection with them, but yet Mr. Collins had never met with so much attention in the whole course of Mr. Collins life.
 CHAPTER 17
16
 
 As no objection was made to the young people engagement with the young people aunt, and all Mr. Collins scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for a single evening during Mr. Collins visit were most steadily resisted, the coach conveyed Mr. Collins and Mr. Collins five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and the girls had the pleasure of hearing, as the girls entered the drawing room, that Mr. Wickham had accepted the girls uncle invitation, and was then in the house.
 
 When this information was given, and the girls had all taken the girls seats, Mr. Collins was at leisure to look around Mr. Collins and admire, and Mr. Collins was so much struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that Mr. Collins declared Mr. Collins might almost have supposed Mr. Collins in the small summer breakfast parlour at Rosings; a comparison that did not at first convey much gratification; but when Mrs. Phillips understood from Mr. Collins what Rosings was, and who was Rosings proprietor when Mrs. Phillips had listened to the description of only one of Lady Catherine drawing rooms, and found that the chimney piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, Mrs. Phillips felt all the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a comparison with the housekeeper room.
 
 In describing to Mrs. Phillips all the grandeur of Lady Catherine and Lady Catherine mansion, with occasional digressions in praise of Mr. Collins own humble abode, and the improvements it was receiving, Mr. Collins was happily employed until the gentlemen joined them; and Mr. Collins found in Mrs. Phillips a very attentive listener, whose opinion of Mr. Collins consequence increased with what Mrs. Phillips heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among Mrs. Phillips neighbours as soon as Mrs. Phillips could. To the girls, who could not listen to Mr. Wickham, and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantelpiece, the interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at last, however. the gentlemen did approach, and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room, Elizabeth felt that Elizabeth had neither been seeing Mr. Wickham before, nor thinking of Mr. Wickham since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration. The officers of the shire were in general a very creditable, gentlemanlike set, and the best of The officers of the shire were of the present party; but Mr. Wickham was as far beyond The officers of the shire in person, countenance, air, and walk, as The officers of the shire were superior to the broad faced, stuffy uncle Phillips, breathing port wine, who followed The officers of the shire into the room.
 
 Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom Mr. Wickham finally seated Mr. Wickham; and the agreeable manner in which Mr. Wickham immediately fell into conversation, though it was only on it being a wet night, made Elizabeth feel that the commonest, dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the skill of the speaker.
 
 With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and the officers, Mr. Wickham seemed to sink into insignificance; to the young ladies Mr. Wickham certainly was nothing; but Mr. Wickham had still at intervals a kind listener in Mrs. Phillips, and was by Mrs. Phillips watchfulness, most abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin. When the card tables were placed, Mr. Wickham had the opportunity of obliging Mrs. Phillips in turn, by sitting down to whist.
 
 “I know little of the game at present,” said Mr. Wickham, “but I shall be glad to improve Mr. Wickham, for in my situation in life ” Mrs. Phillips was very glad for Mr. Wickham compliance, but could not wait for Mr. Wickham reason.
 
 Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was Mr. Wickham received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia. At first there seemed danger of Lydia engrossing Mr. Wickham entirely, for Lydia was a most determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets, Lydia soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets and exclaiming after prizes to have attention for anyone in particular. Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to Elizabeth, and Elizabeth was very willing to hear Mr. Wickham, though what Elizabeth chiefly wished to hear Elizabeth could not hope to be told the history of Mr. Wickham acquaintance with Mr. Darcy. Elizabeth dared not even mention that gentleman. Elizabeth curiosity, however, was unexpectedly relieved. Mr. Wickham began the subject Mr. Wickham. Mr. Wickham enquired how far Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving Elizabeth answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there.
 
 “About a month,” said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject drop, added, “Mr. Darcy is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I understand.”
 
 “Yes,” replied Mr. Wickham; “Mr. Darcy estate there is a noble one. A clear ten thousand per annum. You could not have met with a person more capable of giving you certain information on that head than myself, for I have been connected with Mr. Darcy family in a particular manner from my infancy.”
 
 Elizabeth could not but look surprised.
 
 “You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, at such an assertion, after seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting yesterday. Are you much acquainted with Mr. Darcy?”
 
 “As much as I ever wish to be,” cried Elizabeth very warmly. “I have spent four days in the same house with Mr. Darcy, and I think Mr. Darcy very disagreeable.”
 
 “I have no right to give my opinion,” said Wickham, “as to Wickham being agreeable or otherwise. I am not qualified to form one. I have known Wickham too long and too well to be a fair judge. It is impossible for me to be impartial. But I believe your opinion of Wickham would in general astonish and perhaps you would not express it quite so strongly anywhere else. Here you are in your own family.”
 
 “Upon my word, I say no more here than I might say in any house in the neighbourhood, except Netherfield. Wickham is not at all liked in Hertfordshire. Everybody is disgusted with Wickham pride. You will not find Wickham more favourably spoken of by anyone.”
 
 “I cannot pretend to be sorry,” said Wickham, after a short interruption, “that Wickham or that any man should not be estimated beyond their deserts; but with Wickham I believe it does not often happen. The world is blinded by Wickham fortune and consequence, or frightened by Wickham high and imposing manners, and sees Wickham only as Wickham chooses to be seen.”
 
 “I should take Wickham, even on my slight acquaintance, to be an ill tempered man.” Wickham only shook Wickham head.
 
 “I wonder,” said Wickham, at the next opportunity of speaking, “whether Wickham is likely to be in this country much longer.”
 
 “I do not at all know; but I heard nothing of Wickham going away when I was at Netherfield. I hope your plans in favour of the shire will not be affected by Wickham being in the neighbourhood.”
 
 “Oh! no it is not for me to be driven away by Mr. Darcy. If Wickham wishes to avoid seeing me, Wickham must go. We are not on friendly terms, and it always gives me pain to meet Wickham, but I have no reason for avoiding Wickham but what I might proclaim before all the world, a sense of very great ill usage, and most painful regrets at Wickham being what Wickham is. Wickham father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never be in Mr. Wickham without being grieved to the soul by a thousand tender recollections. Wickham behaviour to Wickham has been scandalous; but I verily believe I could forgive Wickham anything and everything, rather than Wickham disappointing the hopes and disgracing the memory of Wickham father.”
 
 Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with all Elizabeth heart; but the delicacy of it prevented further enquiry.
 
 Mr. Wickham began to speak on more general topics, Meryton, the neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all that Mr. Wickham had yet seen, and speaking of the latter with gentle but very intelligible gallantry.
 
 “It was the prospect of constant society, and good society,” Mr. Wickham added, “which was my chief inducement to enter the shire. I knew it to be a most respectable, agreeable corps, and my friend Denny tempted me further by my friend Denny account of their present quarters, and the very great attentions and excellent acquaintances Meryton had procured their. Society, I own, is necessary to Wickham. I have been a disappointed man, and my spirits will not bear solitude. I must have employment and society. A military life is not what I was intended for, but circumstances have now made A military life eligible. The church ought to have been my profession I was brought up for The church, and I should at this time have been in possession of a most valuable living, had The church pleased the gentleman we were speaking of just now.”
 
 “Indeed!”
 
 “Yes Mr. Darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of the best living in Mr. Darcy gift. Mr. Darcy was my godfather, and excessively attached to Wickham. I cannot do justice to Mr. Darcy kindness. Mr. Darcy meant to provide for Wickham amply, and thought Mr. Darcy had done it; but when the best living in his gift fell, it was given elsewhere.”
 
 “Good heavens!” cried Elizabeth; “but how could that be? How could Mr. Darcy will be disregarded? Why did you not seek legal redress?”
 
 “There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to give me no hope from law. A man of honour could not have doubted the intention, but Mr. Darcy chose to doubt the intention or to treat the intention as a merely conditional recommendation, and to assert that I had forfeited all claim to the intention by extravagance, imprudence in short anything or nothing. Certain it is, that the best living in his gift became vacant two years ago, exactly as I was of an age to hold it, and that it was given to another man; and no less certain is it, that I cannot accuse Wickham of having really done anything to deserve to lose it. I have a warm, unguarded temper, and I may have spoken my opinion of him, and to him, too freely. I can recall nothing worse. But the fact is, that we are very different sort of men, and that him hates me.”
 
 “This is quite shocking! him deserves to be publicly disgraced.”
 
 “Some time or other him will be but it shall not be by Wickham. Till I can forget him , I can never defy or expose him.”
 
 Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than ever as him expressed them.
 
 “But what,” said Elizabeth, after a pause, “can have been him motive? What can have induced him to behave so cruelly?”
 
 “A thorough, determined dislike of Wickham a dislike which I cannot but attribute in some measure to jealousy. Had Mr. Darcy liked me less, Mr. Darcy son might have borne with Wickham better; but his son father uncommon attachment to Wickham irritated his son, I believe, very early in life. his son had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood the sort of preference which was often given me.”
 
 “I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this though I have never liked Mr. Darcy. I had not thought so very ill of Mr. Darcy. I had supposed Mr. Darcy to be despising Mr. Darcy fellow creatures in general, but did not suspect Mr. Darcy of descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as this.”
 
 After a few minutes’ reflection, however, she continued, “I do remember Mr. Darcy boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of Mr. Darcy resentments, of Mr. Darcy having an unforgiving temper. Mr. Darcy disposition must be dreadful.”
 
 “I will not trust Wickham on the subject,” replied Wickham; “I can hardly be just to Mr. Darcy.”
 
 Elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, “To treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his father!” Elizabeth could have added, “A young man, too, like you, whose very countenance may vouch for your being amiable” but Elizabeth contented Elizabeth with, “and one, too, who had probably been his companion from childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner!”
 
 “We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest part of We youth was passed together; inmates of the same house, sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care. his father began life in the profession which your uncle, Mr. Phillips, appears to do so much credit to but his father gave up everything to be of use to Mr. Darcy and devoted all his father time to the care of the Pemberley property. his father was most highly esteemed by Mr. Darcy, a most intimate, confidential friend. Mr. Darcy often acknowledged Mr. Darcy to be under the greatest obligations to my father active superintendence, and when, immediately before my father death, Mr. Darcy gave Mr. Darcy a voluntary promise of providing for his father, I am convinced that Mr. Darcy felt it to be as much a debt of gratitude to Mr. Darcy, as of Mr. Darcy affection to his father.”
 
 “How strange!” cried Elizabeth. “How abominable! I wonder that the very pride of Mr. Darcy has not made Mr. Darcy just to you! If from no better motive, that Mr. Darcy should not have been too proud to be dishonest for dishonesty I must call dishonesty.”
 
 “It is wonderful,” replied Wickham, “for almost all Wickham actions may be traced to pride; and pride had often been Wickham best friend. It has connected Wickham nearer with virtue than with any other feeling. But we are none of we consistent, and in Wickham behaviour to his father there were stronger impulses even than pride.”
 
 “Can such abominable pride as Wickham have ever done Wickham good?”
 
 “Yes. It has often led Wickham to be liberal and generous, to give Wickham money freely, to display hospitality, to assist Wickham tenants, and relieve the poor. Family pride, and filial pride for Wickham is very proud of what his father was have done this. Not to appear to disgrace Wickham family, to degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the Pemberley House, is a powerful motive. Wickham has also brotherly pride, which, with some brotherly affection, makes Wickham a very kind and careful guardian of Wickham sister, and you will hear Wickham generally cried up as the most attentive and best of brothers.”
 
 “What sort of girl is Mr. Darcy?”
 
 Wickham shook his head. “I wish I could call her amiable. It gives me pain to speak ill of Mr. Darcy. But her is too much like her brother very, very proud. As a child, her was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement. But her is nothing to me now. her is a handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen, and, I understand, highly accomplished. Since her , her home has been London, where a lady lives with a lady, and superintends a lady education.”
 
 After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elizabeth could not help reverting once more to the first, and saying:
 
 “I am astonished at Elizabeth intimacy with Mr. Bingley! How can Mr. Bingley, who seems good humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable, be in friendship with such a man? How can Mr. Bingley, who seems good humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable suit each other? Do you know Mr. Bingley?”
 
 “Not at all.”
 
 “Mr. Bingley is a sweet tempered, amiable, charming man. Mr. Bingley cannot know what Mr. Darcy is.”
 
 “Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where Mr. Darcy chooses. Mr. Darcy does not want abilities. Mr. Darcy can be a conversible companion if Mr. Darcy thinks it worth Mr. Darcy while. Among those who are at all Mr. Darcy equals in consequence, Mr. Darcy is a very different man from what Mr. Darcy is to the less prosperous. Mr. Darcy pride never deserts Mr. Darcy; but with the rich Mr. Darcy is liberal minded, just, sincere, rational, honourable, and perhaps agreeable allowing something for fortune and figure.”
 
 The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round the other table and Mr. Collins took Mr. Collins station between Mrs. Phillips. The usual enquiries as to Mr. Collins success were made by the latter. It had not been very great; Mr. Collins had lost every point; but when Mrs. Phillips began to express Mrs. Phillips concern thereupon, Mr. Collins assured Mrs. Phillips with much earnest gravity that it was not of the least importance, that Mr. Collins considered the money as a mere trifle, and begged that Mrs. Phillips would not make Mrs. Phillips uneasy.
 
 “I know very well, madam,” said Mr. Collins, “that when persons sit down to a card table, persons must take persons chances of these things, and happily I am not in such circumstances as to make five shillings any object. There are undoubtedly many who could not say the same, but thanks to Lady Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters.”
 
 Mr. Wickham attention was caught; and after observing Mr. Collins for a few moments, Mr. Collins asked Elizabeth in a low voice whether Elizabeth relation was very intimately acquainted with the family of de Bourgh.
 
 “Lady Catherine de Bourgh,” Elizabeth replied, “has very lately given Mr. Collins a living. I hardly know how Mr. Collins was first introduced to Elizabeth notice, but Mr. Collins certainly has not known Elizabeth long.”
 
 “You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne Darcy were sisters; consequently that Lady Catherine de Bourgh is aunt to Mr. Darcy.”
 
 “No, indeed, I did not. I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherine connections. I never heard of Lady Catherine existence till the day before yesterday.”
 
 “Lady Catherine daughter, Miss de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune, and it is believed that Lady Catherine and Lady Catherine cousin will unite the two estates.”
 
 This information made Elizabeth smile, as Elizabeth thought of poor Miss Bingley. Vain indeed must be all Elizabeth attentions, vain and useless Lady Catherine affection for Vain sister and Elizabeth praise of Vain, if Vain were already self destined for another.
 
 “Mr. Collins,” said Elizabeth, “speaks highly both of Lady Catherine and Lady Catherine daughter; but from some particulars that Mr. Collins has related of Elizabeth ladyship, I suspect Mr. Collins gratitude misleads Mr. Collins, and that in spite of Elizabeth being Mr. Collins patroness, Elizabeth is an arrogant, conceited woman.”
 
 “I believe Elizabeth to be both in a great degree,” replied Wickham; “I have not seen Elizabeth for many years, but I very well remember that I never liked Elizabeth, and that Elizabeth manners were dictatorial and insolent. Elizabeth has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but I rather believe Elizabeth derives part of Elizabeth abilities from Elizabeth rank and fortune, part from Elizabeth authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride of Elizabeth nephew, who chooses that everyone connected with him should have an understanding of the first class.”
 
 Elizabeth allowed that Elizabeth had given a very rational account of it, and they continued talking together, with mutual satisfaction till supper put an end to cards, and gave the rest of the ladies they share of Mr. Wickham attentions. There could be no conversation in the noise of Mrs. Phillips supper party, but Elizabeth manners recommended Elizabeth to everybody. Whatever Elizabeth said, was said well; and whatever Elizabeth did, done gracefully. Elizabeth went away with Elizabeth head full of Elizabeth. Elizabeth could think of nothing but of Mr. Wickham, and of what Mr. Wickham had told Elizabeth, all the way home; but there was not time for Elizabeth even to mention Mr. Wickham name as they went, for neither Lydia nor Mr. Collins were once silent. Lydia talked incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish Lydia had lost and the fish Lydia had won; and Mr. Collins in describing the civility of Mr. and Mrs. Phillips, protesting that he did not in the least regard he losses at whist, enumerating all the dishes at supper, and repeatedly fearing that he crowded he cousins, had more to say than he could well manage before the carriage stopped at Longbourn House.
 CHAPTER 18
17
 
 Elizabeth related to Jane the next day what had passed between Mr. Wickham and Jane. Jane listened with astonishment and concern; Jane knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr. Bingley regard; and yet, Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr. Bingley regard was not in Jane nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham. The possibility of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham having endured such unkindness, was enough to interest all Jane tender feelings; and nothing remained therefore to be done, but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be otherwise explained.
 
 “They have both,” said Jane, “been deceived, I dare say, in some way or other, of which we can form no idea. Interested people have perhaps misrepresented each to the other. It is, in short, impossible for us to conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated Interested people, without actual blame on either side.”
 
 “Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to say on behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business? Do clear the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business too, or the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business shall be obliged to think ill of somebody.”
 
 “Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my opinion. my dear Jane, do but consider in what a disgraceful light it places Mr. Darcy, to be treating Mr. Darcy father favourite in such a manner, one whom his father had promised to provide for. It is impossible. No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his character, could be capable of it. Can his most intimate friends be so excessively deceived in his? Oh! no.”
 
 “I can much more easily believe Mr. Bingley being imposed on, than that Mr. Wickham should invent such a history of Mr. Wickham as Mr. Wickham gave me last night; names, facts, everything mentioned without ceremony. If it be not so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it. Besides, there was truth in Mr. Darcy looks.”
 
 “It is difficult indeed it is distressing. One does not know what to think.”
 
 “I beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think.”
 
 But Jane could think with certainty on only one point that Mr. Bingley, if Mr. Bingley had been imposed on, would have much to suffer when the affair became public.
 
 The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this conversation passed, by the arrival of the very persons of whom The two young ladies had been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his sisters came to give Mr. Bingley and his sisters personal invitation for the long expected ball at Netherfield, which was fixed for the following Tuesday. The two young ladies were delighted to see The two young ladies dear friend again, called it an age since The two young ladies had met, and repeatedly asked what Jane had been doing with Jane since The two young ladies separation. To the rest of the family the family paid little attention; avoiding Jane as much as possible, saying not much to Elizabeth, and nothing at all to the others. the family were soon gone again, rising from the family seats with an activity which took the family brother by surprise, and hurrying off as if eager to escape from Mrs. Bennet civilities.
 
 The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every female of the family. Jane chose to consider it as given in compliment to Jane eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered by receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself, instead of a ceremonious card. Jane pictured to Jane a happy evening in the society of Jane two friends, and the attentions of their brother; and Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with Mr. Wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of everything in Mr. Darcy look and behaviour. The happiness anticipated by Catherine and Lydia depended less on any single event, or any particular person, for though The happiness anticipated by Catherine and Lydia each, like Elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham, Mr. Wickham was by no means the only partner who could satisfy no means, and a ball was, at any rate, a ball. And even Mary could assure even Mary family that even Mary had no disinclination for it.
 
 “While I can have my mornings to myself,” said even Mary, “it is enough I think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements. Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself one of those who consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for everybody.”
 
 Elizabeth spirits were so high on this occasion, that though Elizabeth did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, Elizabeth could not help asking Mr. Collins whether Mr. Collins intended to accept Mr. Bingley invitation, and if Mr. Collins did, whether Mr. Collins would think Mr. Bingley invitation proper to join in the evening amusement; and Elizabeth was rather surprised to find that Mr. Collins entertained no scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke either from the Archbishop, or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to dance.
 
 “I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you,” said he, “that a ball of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people, can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing he, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially, a preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right cause, and not to any disrespect for Jane.”
 
 Jane felt Jane completely taken in. Jane had fully proposed being engaged by Mr. Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins instead! Jane liveliness had never been worse timed. There was no help for it, however. Mr. Wickham happiness and Jane own were perforce delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins proposal accepted with as good a grace as Jane could. Jane was not the better pleased with his gallantry from the idea it suggested of something more. it now first struck Jane, that Jane was selected from among Jane sisters as worthy of being mistress of Hunsford Parsonage, and of assisting to form a quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible visitors. the idea soon reached to conviction, as Jane observed Mr. Collins increasing civilities toward Jane, and heard Mr. Collins frequent attempt at a compliment on Jane wit and vivacity; and though more astonished than gratified Jane by this effect of Jane charms, it was not long before Jane mother gave her mother to understand that the probability of their marriage was extremely agreeable to Jane. Jane, however, did not choose to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any reply. Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and till Mr. Collins did, the offer was useless to quarrel about Mr. Collins.
 
 If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of, the younger Miss Bennets would have been in a very pitiable state at this time, for from the day of the invitation, to the day of the ball, there was such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton once. No aunt, no officers, no news could be sought after the very shoe roses for Netherfield were got by proxy. Jane Jane might have found some trial of Jane patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement of Jane acquaintance with Mr. Wickham; and nothing less than a dance on Tuesday, could have made such a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday endurable to Kitty and Lydia.
 CHAPTER 19
18
 
 Till Elizabeth entered the drawing room at Netherfield, and looked in vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a doubt of Mr. Wickham being present had never occurred to Till Elizabeth. The certainty of meeting Mr. Wickham had not been checked by any of those recollections that might not unreasonably have alarmed Till Elizabeth. Till Elizabeth had dressed with more than usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all that remained unsubdued of Mr. Wickham heart, trusting that it was not more than might be won in the course of the evening. But in an instant arose the dreadful suspicion of Mr. Wickham being purposely omitted for Mr. Darcy pleasure in the Bingleys’ invitation to the officers; and though this was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of Mr. Wickham absence was pronounced by Mr. Wickham friend Denny, to whom Lydia eagerly applied, and who told whom that Mr. Wickham had been obliged to go to town on business the day before, and was not yet returned; adding, with a significant smile, “I do not imagine Mr. Wickham business would have called Mr. Wickham away just now, if Mr. Wickham had not wanted to avoid a certain gentleman here.”
 
 This part of Mr. Wickham intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by Elizabeth, and, as it assured Elizabeth that Darcy was not less answerable for Mr. Wickham absence than if Mr. Wickham first surmise had been just, every feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment, that Mr. Wickham could hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite enquiries which Mr. Wickham directly afterwards approached to make. Attendance, forbearance, patience with Darcy, was injury to Mr. Wickham. Mr. Wickham was resolved against any sort of conversation with Mr. Wickham, and turned away with a degree of ill humour which Mr. Wickham could not wholly surmount even in speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality provoked Mr. Wickham.
 
 But Elizabeth was not formed for ill humour; and though every prospect of Elizabeth own was destroyed for the evening, it could not dwell long on Elizabeth spirits; and having told all Elizabeth griefs to Charlotte Lucas, whom Elizabeth had not seen for a week, Elizabeth was soon able to make a voluntary transition to the oddities of Elizabeth cousin, and to point Mr. Wickham out to Elizabeth particular notice. The first two dances, however, brought a return of distress; The first two dances were dances of mortification. Mr. Collins, awkward and solemn, apologising instead of attending, and often moving wrong without being aware of it, gave Elizabeth all the shame and misery which a disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give. The moment of Elizabeth release from him was ecstasy.
 
 Elizabeth danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of Wickham, and of hearing that him was universally liked. When The first two dances were over, Elizabeth returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with Elizabeth, when Elizabeth found Elizabeth suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy who took Elizabeth so much by surprise in him application for Elizabeth hand, that, without knowing what Elizabeth did, Elizabeth accepted him. him walked away again immediately, and Elizabeth was left to fret over Elizabeth own want of presence of mind; Charlotte tried to console Elizabeth:
 
 “I dare say you will find him very agreeable.”
 
 “Heaven forbid! That would be the greatest misfortune of all! To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! Do not wish me such an evil.”
 
 When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to claim Darcy , Charlotte could not help cautioning Darcy in a whisper, not to be a simpleton, and allow Darcy fancy for Wickham to make Darcy appear unpleasant in the eyes of a man ten times a man consequence. Darcy made no answer, and took Darcy place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which Darcy was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Darcy, and reading in Darcy neighbours’ looks, their equal amazement in beholding it. their stood for some time without speaking a word; and Darcy began to imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and at first was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying that it would be the greater punishment to Darcy partner to oblige a man to talk, Darcy made some slight observation on the dance. a man replied, and was again silent. After a pause of some minutes, Darcy addressed a man a second time with: “It is your turn to say something now, Darcy. I talked about the dance, and you ought to make some sort of remark on the size of the room, or the number of couples.”
 
 a man smiled, and assured Darcy that whatever Darcy wished a man to say should be said.
 
 “Very well. That reply will do for the present. Perhaps by and by a man may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones. But now we may be silent.”
 
 “Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?”
 
 “Sometimes. One must speak a little, you know. It would look odd to be entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the advantage of some, conversation ought to be so arranged, as that they may have the trouble of saying as little as possible.”
 
 “Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you imagine that you are gratifying mine?”
 
 “Both,” replied Elizabeth archly; “for I have always seen a great similarity in the turn of our minds. our are each of an unsocial, taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless our expect to say something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to posterity with all the éclat of a proverb.”
 
 “This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure,” said he. “How near it may be to mine, I cannot pretend to say. You think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly.”
 
 “I must not decide on my own performance.”
 
 he made no answer, and they were again silent till they had gone down the dance, when he asked her if her and her sisters did not very often walk to Meryton. her answered in the affirmative, and, unable to resist the temptation, added, “When you met our there the other day, our had just been forming a new acquaintance.”
 
 The effect was immediate. A deeper shade of hauteur overspread his features, but his said not a word, and Elizabeth, though blaming her for her own weakness, could not go on. At length Darcy spoke, and in a constrained manner said, “Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may ensure Mr. Wickham making friends whether Mr. Wickham may be equally capable of retaining his making friends, is less certain.”
 
 “Mr. Wickham has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship,” replied Elizabeth with emphasis, “and in a manner which Mr. Wickham is likely to suffer from all Mr. Wickham life.”
 
 Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject. At that moment, Sir William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the room; but on perceiving Mr. Darcy, Sir William Lucas stopped with a bow of superior courtesy to compliment Sir William Lucas on Sir William Lucas dancing and Sir William Lucas partner.
 
 “I have been most highly gratified indeed, Sir William Lucas. Such very superior dancing is not often seen. It is evident that you belong to the first circles. Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not disgrace you, and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated, especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Eliza (glancing at her sister and Bingley) shall take place. What congratulations will then flow in! I appeal to Darcy: but let me not interrupt you, Sir William Lucas. You will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me.”
 
 The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but Sir William allusion to Darcy friend seemed to strike Darcy forcibly, and Darcy eyes were directed with a very serious expression towards Bingley and Jane, who were dancing together. Recovering Darcy, however, shortly, Darcy turned to your fair partner, and said, “Sir William interruption has made me forget what we were talking of.”
 
 “I do not think we were speaking at all. Sir William Lucas could not have interrupted two people in the room who had less to say for two people. we have tried two or three subjects already without success, and what we are to talk of next I cannot imagine.”
 
 “What think you of books?” said Sir William Lucas, smiling.
 
 “Books oh! no. I am sure we never read the same, or not with the same feelings.”
 
 “I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be no want of subject. We may compare We different opinions.”
 
 “No I cannot talk of books in a ball room; my head is always full of something else.”
 
 “The present always occupies you in such scenes does The present?” said he, with a look of doubt.
 
 “Yes, always,” she replied, without knowing what she said, for she thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared by she suddenly exclaiming, “I remember hearing you once say, Mr. Darcy, that you hardly ever forgave, that your resentment once created was unappeasable. You are very cautious, I suppose, as to your resentment once created was unappeasable being created?”
 
 “I am,” said he, with a firm voice.
 
 “And never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?”
 
 “I hope not.”
 
 “It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion, to be secure of judging properly at first.”
 
 “May I ask to what these questions tend?”
 
 “Merely to the illustration of your character,” said she, endeavouring to shake off she gravity. “I am trying to make it out.”
 
 “And what is your success?”
 
 she shook she head. “I do not get on at all. I hear such different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.”
 
 “I can readily believe,” answered he gravely, “that reports may vary greatly with respect to he; and I could wish, Miss Bennet, that you were not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either.”
 
 “But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another opportunity.”
 
 “I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours,” he coldly replied. she said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in silence; and on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree, for in Darcy breast there was a tolerably powerful feeling towards her, which soon procured she pardon, and directed all his anger against another.
 
 they had not long separated, when Miss Bingley came towards she, and with an expression of civil disdain accosted she:
 
 “So, she, I hear you are quite delighted with Mr. Wickham! Your sister has been talking to he about Mr. Wickham, and asking me a thousand questions; and I find that the young man quite forgot to tell you, among Mr. Wickham other communication, that Mr. Wickham was the son of old Wickham, the late Mr. Darcy steward. Let me recommend you, however, as a friend, not to give implicit confidence to all a friend assertions; for as to Darcy using a friend ill, it is perfectly false; for, on the contrary, a friend has always been remarkably kind to a friend, though Mr. Wickham has treated Darcy in a most infamous manner. I do not know the particulars, but I know very well that Darcy is not in the least to blame, that Darcy cannot bear to hear Mr. Wickham mentioned, and that though my brother thought that my brother could not well avoid including my brother in my brother invitation to the officers, my brother was excessively glad to find that my brother had taken my brother out of the way. my brother coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing, indeed, and I wonder how my brother could presume to do it. I pity you, Miss she, for this discovery of your favourite guilt; but really, considering my brother descent, one could not expect much better.”
 
 “my brother guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same,” said Darcy angrily; “for I have heard you accuse my brother of nothing worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcy steward, and of that, I can assure you, my brother informed me my brother.”
 
 “I beg your pardon,” replied Miss Bingley, turning away with a sneer. “Excuse my interference my interference was kindly meant.”
 
 “Insolent girl!” said Darcy to Darcy. “You are much mistaken if you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as this. I see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of Darcy.” Darcy then sought Darcy eldest sister, who had undertaken to make enquiries on the same subject of Miss Bingley. Darcy met Darcy with a smile of such sweet complacency, a glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently marked how well Darcy was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening. Darcy instantly read Darcy feelings, and at that moment solicitude for Mr. Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave way before the hope of Darcy being in the fairest way for happiness.
 
 “I want to know,” said Darcy, with a countenance no less smiling than Your sister, “what you have learnt about Mr. Wickham. But perhaps you have been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person; in which case you may be sure of your pardon.”
 
 “No,” replied Darcy, “I have not forgotten your pardon; but I have nothing satisfactory to tell you. Miss Bingley does not know the whole of Miss Bingley history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have principally offended Darcy; but Miss Bingley will vouch for the good conduct, the probity, and honour of Miss Bingley friend, and is perfectly convinced that Mr. Wickham has deserved much less attention from Darcy than Mr. Wickham has received; and I am sorry to say by Mr. Wickham account as well as Mr. Wickham sister, Mr. Wickham is by no means a respectable young man. I am afraid Mr. Wickham has been very imprudent, and has deserved to lose Mr. Darcy regard.”
 
 “Miss Bingley does not know Mr. Wickham?”
 
 “No; Mr. Wickham never saw Mr. Wickham till the other morning at Meryton.”
 
 “his account as well as his sister then is what Mr. Wickham has received from Darcy. I am satisfied. But what does Mr. Wickham say of the living?”
 
 “Mr. Wickham does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though Mr. Wickham has heard the circumstances from Darcy more than once, but Mr. Wickham believes that it was left to Mr. Wickham conditionally only.”
 
 “I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley sincerity,” said Darcy warmly; “but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only. Mr. Bingley defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but since Mr. Wickham is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt the rest from his friend, I shall venture to still think of both gentlemen as I did before.”
 
 Darcy then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on which there could be no difference of sentiment. Darcy listened with delight to the happy, though modest hopes which Darcy entertained of Mr. Bingley regard, and said all in Darcy power to heighten Darcy confidence in it. On their being joined by Mr. Bingley himself, Darcy withdrew to Miss Lucas; to whose enquiry after the pleasantness of Darcy last partner Darcy had scarcely replied, before Mr. Collins came up to their, and told Darcy with great exultation that Mr. Collins had just been so fortunate as to make a most important discovery.
 
 “I have found out,” said Mr. Collins, “by a singular accident, that there is now in the room a near relation of my patroness. I happened to overhear the gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of the house the names of Mr. Collins cousin Miss de Bourgh, and of Lady Catherine. How wonderfully these sort of things occur! Who would have thought of my meeting with, perhaps, a nephew of Lady Catherine de Bourgh in this assembly! I am most thankful that the discovery is made in time for me to pay my respects to him, which I am now going to do, and trust him will excuse my not having done the discovery before. My total ignorance of the connection must plead my apology.”
 
 “You are not going to introduce yourself to Darcy!”
 
 “Indeed I am. I shall entreat him pardon for not having done it earlier. I believe him to be Lady Catherine nephew. It will be in my power to assure him that Lady Catherine ladyship was quite well yesterday se’nnight.”
 
 Darcy tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme, assuring him that Darcy would consider him addressing him without introduction as an impertinent freedom, rather than a compliment to him aunt; that it was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either side; and that if it were, it must belong to Mr. Darcy, the superior in consequence, to begin the acquaintance. Mr. Collins listened to Darcy with the determined air of following Mr. Collins own inclination, and, when Darcy ceased speaking, replied thus:
 
 “Darcy, I have the highest opinion in the world in your excellent judgement in all matters within the scope of your understanding; but permit me to say, that there must be a wide difference between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity, and those which regulate the clergy; for, give me leave to observe that I consider the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank in the kingdom provided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time maintained. You must therefore allow me to follow the dictates of my conscience on this occasion, which leads me to perform what I look on as a point of duty. Pardon me for neglecting to profit by your advice, which on every other subject shall be my constant guide, though in the case before us I consider Mr. Collins more fitted by education and habitual study to decide on what is right than a young lady like yourself.” And with a low bow yourself left Mr. Collins to attack Mr. Darcy, whose reception of yourself advances Mr. Collins eagerly watched, and whose astonishment at being so addressed was very evident. Mr. Collins cousin prefaced Her cousin speech with a solemn bow and though Her cousin could not hear a word of his speech, Her cousin felt as if hearing it all, and saw in the motion of Her cousin lips the words “apology,” “Hunsford,” and “Lady Catherine de Bourgh.” It vexed Her cousin to see Her cousin expose Her cousin to such a man. Darcy was eyeing Darcy with unrestrained wonder, and when at Mr. Collins allowed Darcy time to speak, replied with an air of distant civility. Mr. Collins, however, was not discouraged from speaking again, and Mr. Darcy contempt seemed abundantly increasing with the length of Mr. Collins second speech, and at the end of it Mr. Collins only made Mr. Collins a slight bow, and moved another way. Mr. Collins then returned to Darcy.
 
 “I have no reason, I assure you,” said Mr. Collins, “to be dissatisfied with my reception. Darcy seemed much pleased with the attention. Darcy answered me with the utmost civility, and even paid me the compliment of saying that Darcy was so well convinced of Lady Catherine discernment as to be certain Lady Catherine could never bestow a favour unworthily. It was really a very handsome thought. Upon the whole, I am much pleased with Darcy.”
 
 As Darcy had no longer any interest of Darcy own to pursue, Darcy turned Darcy attention almost entirely on Darcy sister and Miss Bingley; and the train of agreeable reflections which Darcy observations gave birth to, made birth perhaps almost as happy as Darcy. birth saw birth in idea settled in that very house, in all the felicity which a marriage of true affection could bestow; and birth felt capable, under such circumstances, of endeavouring even to like Miss Bingley two sisters. birth mother thoughts birth plainly saw were bent the same way, and birth determined not to venture near birth, lest birth might hear too much. When they sat down to supper, therefore, birth considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed they within one of each other; and deeply was birth vexed to find that birth was talking to that one person (Lady Lucas) freely, openly, and of nothing else but birth expectation that Darcy would soon be married to Miss Bingley. It was an animating subject, and birth seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match. birth being such a charming young man, and so rich, and living but three miles from them, were the first points of self gratulation; and then it was such a comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of Darcy, and to be certain that the two sisters must desire the connection as much as Darcy could do. It was, moreover, such a promising thing for Darcy younger daughters, as Darcy marrying so greatly must throw such a promising thing for her younger daughters in the way of other rich men; and lastly, it was so pleasant at Darcy time of life to be able to consign Darcy single daughters to the care of such a promising thing for her younger daughters sister, that Darcy might not be obliged to go into company more than Darcy liked. It was necessary to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on such occasions it is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than birth to find comfort in staying home at any period of birth life. birth concluded with many good wishes that Miss Lucas might soon be equally fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no chance of it.
 
 In vain did Darcy endeavour to check the rapidity of Darcy mother words, or persuade Darcy to describe Darcy felicity in a less audible whisper; for, to Darcy inexpressible vexation, Darcy could perceive that the chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy, who sat opposite to them. Lady Catherine only scolded Darcy for being nonsensical.
 
 “What is Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of Darcy? I am sure we owe Darcy no such particular civility as to be obliged to say nothing Darcy may not like to hear.”
 
 “For heaven sake, madam, speak lower. What advantage can it be for you to offend Darcy? You will never recommend yourself to his friend by so doing!”
 
 Nothing that his friend could say, however, had any influence. Lady Catherine would talk of his friend views in the same intelligible tone. Darcy blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation. Darcy could not help frequently glancing Darcy eye at Darcy, though every glance convinced Darcy of what Darcy dreaded; for though Darcy was not always looking at Lady Catherine, Darcy was convinced that Darcy attention was invariably fixed by Darcy. The expression of Darcy face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity.
 
 At length, however, birth had no more to say; and Lady Lucas, who had been long yawning at the repetition of delights which birth saw no likelihood of sharing, was left to the comforts of cold ham and chicken. Darcy now began to revive. But not long was the interval of tranquillity; for, when supper was over, singing was talked of, and Darcy had the mortification of seeing Mary, after very little entreaty, preparing to oblige the company. By many significant looks and silent entreaties, did Darcy endeavour to prevent such a proof of complaisance, but in vain; Mary would not understand them; such an opportunity of exhibiting was delightful to Mary, and Mary began Mary song. Darcy eyes were fixed on Mary with most painful sensations, and Darcy watched Darcy progress through the several stanzas with an impatience which was very ill rewarded at their close; for Mary, on receiving, amongst the thanks of the table, the hint of a hope that Mary might be prevailed on to favour their again, after the pause of half a minute began another. Mary powers were by no means fitted for such a display; Mary voice was weak, and Mary manner affected. Darcy was in agonies. Darcy looked at Darcy, to see how Darcy bore it; but Darcy was very composedly talking to Miss Bingley. Darcy looked at his two sisters, and saw his two sisters making signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however, imperturbably grave. Darcy looked at Darcy father to entreat his interference, lest Mary should be singing all night. his took the hint, and when Mary had finished her song, said aloud, “That will do extremely well, child. You have delighted “ long enough. Let the other young ladies have time to exhibit.”
 
 Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and Darcy, sorry for Mary, and sorry for Mary father speech, was afraid Mary anxiety had done no good. Others of the party were now applied to.
 
 “If I,” said Mr. Collins, “were so fortunate as to be able to sing, I should have great pleasure, I am sure, in obliging the company with an air; for I consider music as a very innocent diversion, and perfectly compatible with the profession of a clergyman. I do not mean, however, to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of we time to music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to. The rector of a parish has much to do. In the first place, The rector of a parish must make such an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to The rector of a parish and not offensive to The rector of a parish patron. The rector of a parish must write The rector of a parish own sermons; and the time that remains will not be too much for The rector of a parish parish duties, and the care and improvement of The rector of a parish dwelling, which The rector of a parish cannot be excused from making as comfortable as possible. And I do not think it of light importance that The rector of a parish should have attentive and conciliatory manners towards everybody, especially towards those to whom The rector of a parish owes The rector of a parish preferment. I cannot acquit The rector of a parish of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying The rector of a parish respect towards anybody connected with the family.” And with a bow to Darcy, Darcy concluded Darcy speech, which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room. Many stared many smiled; but no one looked more amused than birth, while birth wife seriously commended Mr. Collins for having spoken so sensibly, and observed in a half whisper to Miss Lucas, that birth was a remarkably clever, good kind of young man.
 
 To Darcy it appeared that, had Darcy family made an agreement to expose her family as much as her family could during the evening, it would have been impossible for her family to play her family parts with more spirit or finer success; and happy did Darcy think it for Miss Bingley and Darcy sister that some of the exhibition had escaped birth notice, and that birth feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which birth must have witnessed. That birth two sisters and Darcy, however, should have such an opportunity of ridiculing Darcy relations, was bad enough, and Darcy could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman, or the insolent smiles of the ladies, were more intolerable.
 
 The rest of the evening brought Darcy little amusement. Darcy was teased by Mr. Collins, who continued most perseveringly by Darcy side, and though birth could not prevail on Darcy to dance with birth again, put it out of Darcy power to dance with others. In vain did Darcy entreat birth to stand up with somebody else, and offer to introduce birth to any young lady in the room. birth assured Darcy, that as to dancing, birth was perfectly indifferent to it; that birth chief object was by delicate attentions to recommend birth to Darcy and that birth should therefore make a point of remaining close to Darcy the whole evening. There was no arguing upon such a project. Darcy owed Darcy greatest relief to Darcy friend Miss Lucas, who often joined them, and good naturedly engaged Mr. Collins conversation to Darcy.
 
 Darcy was at least free from the offense of Darcy further notice; though often standing within a very short distance of Darcy, quite disengaged, Darcy never came near enough to speak. Darcy felt it to be the probable consequence of Darcy allusions to Mr. Wickham, and rejoiced in it.
 
 the party were the last of all the company to depart, and, by a manoeuvre of birth, had to wait for the party carriage a quarter of an hour after everybody else was gone, which gave the party time to see how heartily the party were wished away by some of the family. Mrs. Hurst and Darcy sister scarcely opened Mrs. Hurst and her sister mouths, except to complain of fatigue, and were evidently impatient to have the house to Mrs. Hurst and her sister. Mrs. Hurst and her sister repulsed every attempt of birth at conversation, and by so doing threw a languor over the whole party, which was very little relieved by the long speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr. Bingley and his sisters on the elegance of Mrs. Hurst and her sister entertainment, and the hospitality and politeness which had marked Mrs. Hurst and her sister behaviour to Mrs. Hurst and her sister guests. Darcy said nothing at all. birth, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene. Mr. Bingley and Jane were standing together, a little detached from the rest, and talked only to each other. Darcy preserved as steady a silence as either Mrs. Hurst or Miss Miss Bingley; and even Lydia was too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of “Lord, how tired I am!” accompanied by a violent yawn.
 
 When at length Mr. Bingley and Jane arose to take leave, birth was most pressingly civil in birth hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn, and addressed birth especially to Miss Bingley, to assure Miss Bingley how happy Miss Bingley would make Mr. Bingley and Jane by eating a family dinner with Mr. Bingley and Jane at any time, without the ceremony of a formal invitation. Miss Bingley was all grateful pleasure, and Miss Bingley readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on birth, after Miss Bingley return from London, whither Miss Bingley was obliged to go the next day for a short time.
 
 birth was perfectly satisfied, and quitted the house under the delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary preparations of settlements, new carriages, and wedding clothes, birth should undoubtedly see birth daughter settled at Netherfield in the course of three or four months. Of having another daughter married to Mr. Collins, birth thought with equal certainty, and with considerable, though not equal, pleasure. Darcy was the least dear to Darcy of all Darcy children; and though the man and the match were quite good enough for Darcy, the worth of each was eclipsed by Mr. Bingley and Netherfield.
 CHAPTER 20
19
 
 The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn. Mr. Collins made Mr. Collins declaration in form. Having resolved to do his declaration without loss of time, as Mr. Collins leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to Mr. Collins even at the moment, Mr. Collins set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the observances, which Mr. Collins supposed a regular part of the business. On finding Mrs. Bennet, Elizabeth, and one of the younger girls together, soon after breakfast, Mr. Collins addressed the mother in these words:
 
 “May I hope, madam, for your interest with Elizabeth, when I solicit for the honour of a private audience with Elizabeth in the course of this morning?”
 
 Before Elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise, Elizabeth answered instantly, “Oh dear! yes certainly. I am sure Elizabeth will be very happy I am sure Elizabeth can have no objection. Come, Kitty, I want you up stairs.” And, gathering Elizabeth work together, Elizabeth was hastening away, when Elizabeth called out:
 
 “Dear madam, do not go. I beg you will not go. Mr. Collins must excuse me. Mr. Collins can have nothing to say to Mr. Collins that anybody need not hear. I am going away Mr. Collins.”
 
 “No, no, nonsense, Elizabeth. I desire you to stay where you are.” And upon Elizabeth seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about to escape, Elizabeth added: Mr. Collins, I insist upon your staying and hearing Mr. Collins.”
 
 Elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction and a moment consideration making Elizabeth also sensible that it would be wisest to get it over as soon and as quietly as possible, Elizabeth sat down again and tried to conceal, by incessant employment the feelings which were divided between distress and diversion. Mrs. Bennet and Kitty walked off, and as soon as Mrs. Bennet and Kitty were gone, Mr. Collins began.
 
 “Believe me, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that your modesty, so far from doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections. You would have been less amiable in my eyes had there not been this little unwillingness; but allow me to assure you, that I have your respected mother permission for this address. You can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken. Almost as soon as I entered the house, I singled you out as the companion of my future life. But before I am run away with by my feelings on this subject, perhaps it would be advisable for me to state my reasons for marrying and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the design of selecting a wife, as I certainly did.”
 
 The idea of Mr. Collins, with all Mr. Collins solemn composure, being run away with by Mr. Collins feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing, that Elizabeth could not use the short pause Mr. Collins allowed in any attempt to stop Mr. Collins further, and Mr. Collins continued:
 
 “My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances (like Mr. Collins) to set the example of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced that it will add very greatly to my happiness; and thirdly which perhaps I ought to have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and recommendation of the very noble lady whom I have the honour of calling patroness. Twice has Elizabeth condescended to give me Elizabeth opinion (unasked too!) on this subject; and it was but the very Saturday night before I left Hunsford between our pools at quadrille, while Mrs. Jenkinson was arranging Miss de Bourgh footstool, that Mrs. Jenkinson said, ‘Mr. Collins, you must marry. A clergyman like you must marry. Choose properly, choose a gentlewoman for my sake; and for your own, let Elizabeth be an active, useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make a small income go a good way. This is my advice. Find such a woman as soon as you can, bring such a woman to Hunsford, and I will visit such a woman.’ Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer. You will find such a woman manners beyond anything I can describe; and your wit and vivacity, I think, must be acceptable to such a woman, especially when tempered with the silence and respect which such a woman rank will inevitably excite. Thus much for my general intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views were directed towards Longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood, where I can assure you there are many amiable young women. But the fact is, that being, as I am, to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured father (who, however, may live many years longer), I could not satisfy myself without resolving to choose a wife from among myself daughters, that the loss to them might be as little as possible, when the melancholy event takes place which, however, as I have already said, may not be for several years. This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and I flatter myself This will not sink me in your esteem. And now nothing remains for myself but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection. To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds in the four per cents, which will not be yours till after your mother decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to. On that head, therefore, I shall be uniformly silent; and you may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married.”
 
 It was absolutely necessary to interrupt no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married now.
 
 “You are too hasty, sir,” she cried. “You forget that I have made no answer. Let me do it without further loss of time. Accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible of the honour of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than to decline your proposals.”
 
 “I am not now to learn,” replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the hand, “that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the man whom young ladies secretly mean to accept, when the man whom they secretly mean to accept first applies for young ladies favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second, or even a third time. I am therefore by no means discouraged by what you have just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long.”
 
 “Upon my word, sir,” cried Elizabeth, “your hope is a rather extraordinary one after my declaration. I do assure you that I am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk those young ladies ( happiness on the chance of being asked a second time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal. You could not make me happy, and I am convinced that I am the last woman in the world who could make you so. Nay, were Lady Catherine to know me, I am persuaded Lady Catherine would find me in every respect ill qualified for the situation.”
 
 “Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so,” said Mr. Collins very gravely “but I cannot imagine that Lady Catherine ladyship would at all disapprove of you. And you may be certain when I have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine again, I shall speak in the very highest terms of your modesty, economy, and other amiable qualification.”
 
 “Indeed, Mr. Collins, all praise of Mr. Collins will be unnecessary. You must give me leave to judge for Mr. Collins, and pay me the compliment of believing what I say. I wish you very happy and very rich, and by refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise. In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn estate whenever possession of Longbourn estate falls, without any self reproach. This matter may be considered, therefore, as finally settled.” And rising as Lady Catherine thus spoke, Lady Catherine would have quitted the room, had Mr. Collins not thus addressed Lady Catherine:
 
 “When I do Mr. Collins the honour of speaking to you next on the subject, I shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given me; though I am far from accusing you of cruelty at present, because I know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject a man on the first application, and perhaps you have even now said as much to encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the female character.”
 
 “Really, Mr. Collins,” cried Elizabeth with some warmth, “you puzzle me exceedingly. If what I have hitherto said can appear to you in the form of encouragement, I know not how to express my refusal in such a way as to convince you of its being one.”
 
 “You must give me leave to flatter Mr. Collins, my dear cousin, that your refusal of my addresses is merely words of course. My reasons for believing it are briefly these: it does not appear to Mr. Collins that my hand is unworthy of your acceptance, or that the establishment I can offer would be any other than highly desirable. My situation in life, my connections with the family of de Bourgh, and my relationship to your own, are circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take my favour into further consideration, that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you. Your portion is unhappily so small that it will in all likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications. As I must therefore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of Mr. Collins, I shall choose to attribute your rejection of me to your wish of increasing my love by suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females.”
 
 “I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to that kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man. I would rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere. I thank you again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals, but to accept your proposals is absolutely impossible. My feelings in every respect forbid it. Can I speak plainer? Do not consider me now as an elegant female, intending to plague you, but as a rational creature, speaking the truth from an elegant female heart.”
 
 “You are uniformly charming!” cried he, with an air of awkward gallantry; “and I am persuaded that when sanctioned by the express authority of both your excellent parents, your proposals will not fail of being acceptable.”
 
 To such perseverance in wilful self deception Elizabeth would make no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, if he persisted in considering Elizabeth repeated refusals as flattering encouragement, to apply to Elizabeth father, whose negative might be uttered in such a manner as to be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
 CHAPTER 21
20
 
 Mr. Collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of Mr. Collins successful love; for Mrs. Bennet, having dawdled about in the vestibule to watch for the end of the conference, no sooner saw Elizabeth open the door and with quick step pass Elizabeth towards the staircase, than Elizabeth entered the breakfast room, and congratulated both Mr. Collins and Elizabeth in warm terms on the happy prospect of both him and herself nearer connection. Mr. Collins received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then proceeded to relate the particulars of both him and herself interview, with the result of which Mr. Collins trusted Mr. Collins had every reason to be satisfied, since the refusal which Mr. Collins cousin had steadfastly given Mr. Collins would naturally flow from Elizabeth bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of Elizabeth character.
 
 This information, however, startled Mrs. Bennet; Mrs. Bennet would have been glad to be equally satisfied that Mrs. Bennet daughter had meant to encourage Mr. Collins by protesting against Mr. Collins proposals, but Mrs. Bennet dared not believe his proposals, and could not help saying so.
 
 “But, depend upon his proposals, Mr. Collins,” Mrs. Bennet added, “that Mrs. Bennet shall be brought to reason. I will speak to Mrs. Bennet about it directly. Mrs. Bennet is a very headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know Mrs. Bennet own interest but I will make Mrs. Bennet know it.”
 
 “Pardon me for interrupting you, madam,” cried Mr. Collins; “but if Mrs. Bennet is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether Mrs. Bennet would altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my situation, who naturally looks for happiness in the marriage state. If therefore Mrs. Bennet actually persists in rejecting my suit, perhaps therefore she actually persists in rejecting my suit were better not to force Mrs. Bennet into accepting me, because if liable to such defects of temper, Mrs. Bennet could not contribute much to my felicity.”
 
 “Sir, you quite misunderstand me,” said Mrs. Bennet, alarmed. “Mrs. Bennet is only headstrong in such matters as these. In everything else Mrs. Bennet is as good natured a girl as ever lived. I will go directly to Mrs. Bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with Mrs. Bennet, I am sure.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet would not give Mrs. Bennet time to reply, but hurrying instantly to Mrs. Bennet husband, called out as Mrs. Bennet entered the library, “Oh! Mrs. Bennet, you are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar. You must come and make Mrs. Bennet marry Mr. Collins, for Mrs. Bennet vows Mrs. Bennet will not have Mr. Collins, and if you do not make haste Mr. Collins will change Mr. Collins mind and not have Mrs. Bennet.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet raised Mrs. Bennet eyes from Mrs. Bennet book as Mrs. Bennet entered, and fixed them on Mrs. Bennet face with a calm unconcern which was not in the least altered by Mrs. Bennet communication.
 
 “I have not the pleasure of understanding you,” said he, when Mrs. Bennet had finished Mrs. Bennet speech. “Of what are you talking?”
 
 “Of Mr. Collins and Lizzy. Mrs. Bennet declares Mrs. Bennet will not have Mr. Collins, and Mr. Collins begins to say that Mr. Collins will not have Mrs. Bennet.”
 
 “And what am I to do on the occasion? It seems an hopeless business.”
 
 “Speak to Mrs. Bennet about it Mrs. Bennet. Tell Mrs. Bennet that you insist upon Mrs. Bennet marrying understanding you.”
 
 “Let Mrs. Bennet be called down. Mrs. Bennet shall hear my opinion.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet rang the bell, and Miss Elizabeth was summoned to the library.
 
 “Come here, child,” cried Mrs. Bennet father as Mrs. Bennet appeared. “I have sent for Mrs. Bennet on an affair of importance. I understand that Mr. Collins has made you an offer of marriage. Is it true?” Miss Elizabeth replied that it was. “Very well and this offer of marriage you have refused?”
 
 “I have, sir.”
 
 “Very well. We now come to the point. Your mother insists upon your accepting it was. Is it not so, Mrs. Bennet?”
 
 “Yes, or I will never see Mrs. Bennet again.”
 
 “An unhappy alternative is before you, Miss Elizabeth. From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never see you again if you do not marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again if you do.”
 
 Miss Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning, but Mrs. Bennet, who had persuaded Miss Elizabeth that Miss Elizabeth husband regarded the affair as Miss Elizabeth wished, was excessively disappointed.
 
 “What do you mean, Mrs. Bennet, in talking this way? You promised me to insist upon Miss Elizabeth marrying Mrs. Bennet.”
 
 “My dear,” replied her husband, “I have two small favours to request. First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the present occasion; and secondly, of my room. I shall be glad to have the library to Mrs. Bennet as soon as may be.”
 
 Not yet, however, in spite of Miss Elizabeth disappointment in her husband, did Mrs. Bennet give up the point. Miss Elizabeth talked to Miss Elizabeth again and again; coaxed and threatened Miss Elizabeth by turns. Miss Elizabeth endeavoured to secure Jane in Miss Elizabeth interest; but Jane, with all possible mildness, declined interfering; and Miss Elizabeth, sometimes with real earnestness, and sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to Miss Elizabeth attacks. Though Miss Elizabeth manner varied, however, Miss Elizabeth determination never did.
 
 Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed. Mr. Collins thought too well of Mr. Collins to comprehend on what motives Mr. Collins cousin could refuse Mr. Collins; and though Mr. Collins pride was hurt, Mr. Collins suffered in no other way. Mr. Collins regard for Miss Elizabeth was quite imaginary; and the possibility of Miss Elizabeth deserving Miss Elizabeth mother reproach prevented Mr. Collins feeling any regret.
 
 While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to spend the day with the family. Charlotte Lucas was met in the vestibule by Lydia, who, flying to Charlotte Lucas, cried in a half whisper, “I am glad you are come, for there is such fun here! What do you think has happened this morning? Mr. Collins has made an offer to Charlotte Lucas, and Charlotte Lucas will not have Mr. Collins.”
 
 Charlotte hardly had time to answer, before they were joined by Kitty, who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they entered the breakfast room, where Charlotte Lucas was alone, than Charlotte Lucas likewise began on the subject, calling on Charlotte Lucas for Charlotte Lucas compassion, and entreating Charlotte Lucas to persuade Charlotte Lucas friend Charlotte Lucas to comply with the wishes of all Charlotte Lucas family. “Pray do, my dear Miss Lucas,” Pray added in a melancholy tone, “for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me. I am cruelly used, nobody feels for my poor nerves.”
 
 Charlotte reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and Elizabeth.
 
 “Aye, there “Aye comes,” continued Mrs. Bennet, “looking as unconcerned as may be, and caring no more for us than if us were at York, provided “Aye can have “Aye own way. But I tell you, “Aye “Aye if you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way, you will never get a husband at all and I am sure I do not know who is to maintain you when your father is dead. I shall not be able to keep you and so I warn you. I have done with you from this very day. I told you in the library, you know, that I should never speak to you again, and you will find me as good as my word. I have no pleasure in talking to undutiful children. Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have no great inclination for talking. Nobody can tell what I suffer! But it is always so. Those who do not complain are never pitied.”
 
 “Aye daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any attempt to reason with “Aye or soothe “Aye would only increase the irritation. “Aye talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of Those who do not complain, till Those who do not complain were joined by Mr. Collins, who entered the room with an air more stately than usual, and on perceiving whom, “Aye said to the girls, “Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and let me and Mr. Collins have a little conversation together.”
 
 “Aye passed quietly out of the room, Jane and Kitty followed, but Lydia stood Lydia ground, determined to hear all Lydia could; and Charlotte, detained first by the civility of Mr. Collins, whose enquiries after Lydia and all her family Lydia were very minute, and then by a little curiosity, satisfied Lydia with walking to the window and pretending not to hear. In a doleful voice Mrs. Bennet began the projected conversation: “Oh! Mr. Collins!”
 
 “My dear madam,” replied My dear madam, “let us be for ever silent on this point. Far be it from me,” My dear madam presently continued, in a voice that marked My dear madam displeasure, “to resent the behaviour of your daughter. Resignation to inevitable evils is the duty of us all; the peculiar duty of a young man who has been so fortunate as I have been in early preferment; and I trust I am resigned. Perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt of my positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with my fair cousin hand; for I have often observed that resignation is never so perfect as when the blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of the blessing denied value in our estimation. You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect to your family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your daughter favour, without having paid yourself and Mrs. Bennet the compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf. My conduct may, I fear, be objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your daughter lips instead of your own. But we are all liable to error. I have certainly meant well through the whole affair. My object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with due consideration for the advantage of all your family, and if my manner has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to apologise.”
 CHAPTER 22
21
 
 The discussion of Mr. Collins offer was now nearly at an end, and Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily attending Mr. Collins offer, and occasionally from some peevish allusions of Elizabeth mother. As for the gentleman himself, the gentleman himself feelings were chiefly expressed, not by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid Elizabeth, but by stiffness of manner and resentful silence. the gentleman himself scarcely ever spoke to Elizabeth, and the assiduous attentions which the gentleman himself had been so sensible of the gentleman himself were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose civility in listening to the gentleman himself was a seasonable relief to them all, and especially to Mr. Collins.
 
 The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet ill humour or ill health. Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride. Elizabeth had hoped that Mr. Collins resentment might shorten Mr. Collins visit, but Mr. Collins plan did not appear in the least affected by his plan. Mr. Collins was always to have gone on Saturday, and to Saturday Mr. Collins meant to stay.
 
 After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton to enquire if Mr. Wickham were returned, and to lament over Mr. Wickham absence from the Netherfield ball. Mr. Wickham joined the girls on the girls entering the town, and attended the girls to the girls aunt where Mr. Wickham regret and vexation, and the concern of everybody, was well talked over. To Elizabeth, however, Mr. Wickham voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of Mr. Wickham absence had been self imposed.
 
 “I found,” said Mr. Wickham, “as the time drew near that I had better not meet Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with Mr. Wickham for so many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than Mr. Wickham.”
 
 Mr. Wickham highly approved Mr. Wickham forbearance, and they had leisure for a full discussion of it, and for all the commendation which they civilly bestowed on each other, as Wickham and another officer walked back with Wickham and another officer to Longbourn, and during the walk Mr. Wickham particularly attended to Mr. Wickham. Mr. Wickham accompanying Wickham and another officer was a double advantage; Mr. Wickham felt all the compliment it offered to Mr. Wickham, and it was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing Mr. Wickham to Mr. Wickham father and mother.
 
 Soon after Wickham and another officer return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; a letter came from Netherfield. a letter contained a sheet of elegant, little, hot pressed paper, well covered with a lady fair, flowing hand; and Elizabeth saw Elizabeth sister countenance change as Elizabeth read her sister countenance change, and saw Elizabeth dwelling intently on some particular passages. Jane recollected Jane soon, and putting a letter away, tried to join with Jane usual cheerfulness in the general conversation; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off Elizabeth attention even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and he companion taken leave, than a glance from Jane invited Jane to follow Jane up stairs. When they had gained they own room, Jane, taking out a letter, said:
 
 “This is from Caroline Bingley; what Caroline Bingley contains has surprised me a good deal. The whole party have left Netherfield by this time, and are on The whole party way to town and without any intention of coming back again. You shall hear what Jane says.”
 
 Jane then read the first sentence aloud, which comprised the information of their having just resolved to follow their brother to town directly, and of their meaning to dine in Grosvenor Street, where Mr. Hurst had a house. The next was in these words: “I do not pretend to regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire, except your society, my dearest friend; but we will hope, at some future period, to enjoy many returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in the meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence. I depend on my dearest friend for that.” To these highflown expressions Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of these highflown expressions Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust removal surprised Jane, Jane saw nothing in it really to lament; it was not to be supposed that lament absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley being there; and as to the loss of lament society, Jane was persuaded that Jane must cease to regard it, in the enjoyment of Mr. Bingley.
 
 “It is unlucky,” said Jane, after a short pause, “that you should not be able to see your friends before your friends leave the country. But may we not hope that the period of future happiness to which Mr. Bingley looks forward may arrive earlier than Jane is aware, and that the delightful intercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet greater satisfaction as sisters? Mr. Bingley will not be detained in London by the period of future happiness to which Miss Bingley looks forward may arrive earlier than she is aware, and that the delightful intercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet greater satisfaction as sisters.”
 
 “Caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into Hertfordshire this winter. I will read it to you:”
 
 “When my brother left we yesterday, my brother imagined that the business which took my brother to London might be concluded in three or four days; but as we are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time convinced that when Charles gets to town Charles will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have determined on following my brother thither, that my brother may not be obliged to spend my brother vacant hours in a comfortless hotel. Many of my acquaintances are already there for the winter; I wish that I could hear that you, my dearest friend, had any intention of making one of the crowd but of that I despair. I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire may abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings, and that your beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the three of whom we shall deprive you.”
 
 “It is evident by this,” added Jane, “that he comes back no more this winter.”
 
 “It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he should.”
 
 “Why will you think so? It must be he own doing. he is he own master. But you do not know all. I will read you the passage which particularly hurts me. I will have no reserves from you.”
 
 “Mr. Darcy is impatient to see Mr. Darcy sister; and, to confess the truth, we are scarcely less eager to meet his sister again. I really do not think Mr. Darcy has Mr. Darcy equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments; and the affection Mr. Darcy inspires in Louisa and Mr. Darcy is heightened into something still more interesting, from the hope we dare entertain of Mr. Darcy being hereafter we sister. I do not know whether I ever before mentioned to you my feelings on this subject; but I will not leave the country without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them unreasonable. My brother admires My brother greatly already; My brother will have frequent opportunity now of seeing My brother on the most intimate footing; My brother relations all wish the connection as much as My brother own; and a sister partiality is not misleading me, I think, when I call Charles most capable of engaging any woman heart. With all these circumstances to favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent an attachment, am I wrong, my dearest Jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness of so many?”
 
 “What do you think of this sentence, my dear Lizzy?” said my dearest Jane as my dearest Jane finished this sentence. “Is it not clear enough? Does it not expressly declare that Caroline neither expects nor wishes me to be Caroline sister; that Caroline is perfectly convinced of Caroline brother indifference; and that if Caroline suspects the nature of my feelings for him, Caroline means (most kindly!) to put me on my guard? Can there be any other opinion on the subject?”
 
 “Yes, there can; for mine is totally different. Will you hear it?”
 
 “Most willingly.”
 
 “You shall have it in a few words. Miss Bingley sees that Miss Bingley brother is in love with you, and wants her brother to marry Miss Darcy. Miss Bingley follows her brother to town in hope of keeping her brother there, and tries to persuade you that her brother does not care about you.”
 
 Jane shook Jane head.
 
 “Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me. No one who has ever seen you together can doubt No one who has ever seen you together affection. Miss Bingley, I am sure, cannot. Jane is not such a simpleton. Could Jane have seen half as much love in Mr. Darcy for Jane, Jane would have ordered Jane wedding clothes. But the case is this: We are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and Jane is the more anxious to get Mr. Darcy Mr. Darcy for Jane , from the notion that when there has been one intermarriage, Jane may have less trouble in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way. But, my dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that because Miss Bingley tells you Miss Bingley brother greatly admires Miss Darcy, her brother is in the smallest degree less sensible of your merit than when her brother took leave of my dearest Jane on Tuesday, or that it will be in Jane power to persuade her brother that, instead of being in love with my dearest Jane, her brother is very much in love with Jane friend.”
 
 “If we thought alike of Miss Bingley,” replied Jane, “your representation of all this might make me quite easy. But I know the foundation is unjust. Caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone; and all that I can hope in the case is that Caroline is deceiving Caroline.”
 
 “That is right. You could not have started a more happy idea, since you will not take comfort in mine. Believe Caroline to be deceived, by all means. You have now done your duty by Caroline, and must fret no longer.”
 
 “But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry elsewhere?”
 
 “You must decide for my dear sister,” said Elizabeth; “and if, upon mature deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his two sisters is more than equivalent to the happiness of being his wife, I advise you by all means to refuse his.”
 
 “How can you talk so?” said Jane, faintly smiling. “You must know that though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could not hesitate.”
 
 “I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot consider your situation with much compassion.”
 
 “But if his returns no more this winter, my choice will never be required. A thousand things may arise in six months!”
 
 The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost contempt. It appeared to Elizabeth merely the suggestion of Caroline interested wishes, and Elizabeth could not for a moment suppose that those wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man so totally independent of everyone.
 
 Elizabeth represented to my dear sister as forcibly as possible what Elizabeth felt on the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing the subject happy effect. Jane temper was not desponding, and Jane was gradually led to hope, though the diffidence of affection sometimes overcame the hope, that Caroline Bingley would return to Netherfield and answer every wish of Jane heart.
 
 They agreed that Jane should only hear of the departure of the family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman conduct; but even this partial communication gave Jane a great deal of concern, and Jane bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen to go away just as the ladies were all getting so intimate together. After lamenting it, however, at some length, Jane had the consolation that Mr. Bingley would be soon down again and soon dining at Longbourn, and the conclusion of all was the comfortable declaration, that though Mr. Bingley had been invited only to a family dinner, Jane would take care to have two full courses.
 CHAPTER 23
22
 
 The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases and again during the chief of the day was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen to Mr. Collins. Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking Elizabeth. “It keeps Mr. Collins in good humour,” said Elizabeth, “and I am more obliged to Elizabeth than I can express.” Charlotte assured Elizabeth friend of Elizabeth satisfaction in being useful, and that it amply repaid Elizabeth for the little sacrifice of Elizabeth time. This was very amiable, but Charlotte kindness extended farther than Elizabeth had any conception of; Charlotte object was nothing else than to secure Elizabeth from any return of Mr. Collins addresses, by engaging Mr. Collins addresses towards Elizabeth. Such was Miss Lucas scheme; and appearances were so favourable, that when Mr. Collins addresses parted at night, Elizabeth would have felt almost secure of success if he had not been to leave Hertfordshire so very soon. But here Elizabeth did injustice to the fire and independence of he character, for it led he to escape out of Longbourn House the next morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw he at Elizabeth feet. he was anxious to avoid the notice of he cousins, from a conviction that if they saw he depart, they could not fail to conjecture he design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known till its success might be known likewise; for though feeling almost secure, and with reason, for Charlotte had been tolerably encouraging, he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of Wednesday. he reception, however, was of the most flattering kind. Miss Lucas perceived he from an upper window as he walked towards Longbourn House, and instantly set out to meet he accidentally in the lane. But little had Miss Lucas dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited Miss Lucas there.
 
 In as short a time as Mr. Collins long speeches would allow, everything was settled between Mr. Collins long speeches would allow to the satisfaction of Mr. Collins long speeches would allow; and as Mr. Collins long speeches would allow entered the house Mr. Collins earnestly entreated Miss Lucas to name the day that was to make Mr. Collins the happiest of men; and though such a solicitation must be waived for the present, Miss Lucas felt no inclination to trifle with Miss Lucas happiness. The stupidity with which Miss Lucas was favoured by nature must guard Miss Lucas courtship from any charm that could make a woman wish for its continuance; and Miss Lucas, who accepted Miss Lucas solely from the pure and disinterested desire of an establishment, cared not how soon an establishment were gained.
 
 Sir William and Lady Lucas were speedily applied to for Sir William and Lady Lucas consent; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity. Mr. Collins present circumstances made it a most eligible match for their daughter, to whom their could give little fortune; and Mr. Collins prospects of future wealth were exceedingly fair. Lady Lucas began directly to calculate, with more interest than the matter had ever excited before, how many years longer Mr. Collins was likely to live; and Sir William gave it as Sir William decided opinion, that whenever Mr. Collins should be in possession of the Longbourn estate, it would be highly expedient that both Mr. Collins and Mr. Collins wife should make both he and his wife appearance at St. James. The whole family, in short, were properly overjoyed on the occasion. The younger girls formed hopes of coming out a year or two sooner than The younger girls might otherwise have done; and the boys were relieved from The younger girls apprehension of Charlotte dying an old maid. Charlotte was tolerably composed. Charlotte had gained Charlotte point, and had time to consider of it. Charlotte reflections were in general satisfactory. Mr. Collins, to be sure, was neither sensible nor agreeable; Mr. Collins society was irksome, and Mr. Collins attachment to Charlotte must be imaginary. But still Mr. Collins would be Charlotte husband. Without thinking highly either of men or matrimony, marriage had always been marriage object; it was the only provision for well educated young women of small fortune, and however uncertain of giving happiness, must be the only provision for well educated young women of small fortune, and however uncertain of giving happiness pleasantest preservative from want. This preservative marriage had now obtained; and at the age of twenty seven, without having ever been handsome, marriage felt all the good luck of it. The least agreeable circumstance in the business was the surprise the business must occasion to Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship marriage valued beyond that of any other person. marriage would wonder, and probably would blame marriage; and though marriage resolution was not to be shaken, marriage feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation. marriage resolved to give marriage the information marriage, and therefore charged Mr. Collins, when Mr. Collins returned to Longbourn to dinner, to drop no hint of what had passed before any of the family. A promise of secrecy was of course very dutifully given, but A promise of secrecy could not be kept without difficulty; for the curiosity excited by Mr. Collins long absence burst forth in such very direct questions on Mr. Collins return as required some ingenuity to evade, and Mr. Collins was at the same time exercising great self denial, for Mr. Collins was longing to publish Mr. Collins prosperous love.
 
 As Mr. Collins was to begin Mr. Collins journey too early on the morrow to see any of the family, the ceremony of leave taking was performed when the ladies moved for the night; and Mrs. Bennet, with great politeness and cordiality, said how happy Mrs. Bennet, with great politeness and cordiality should be to see Mr. Collins at Longbourn again, whenever Mr. Collins engagements might allow Mr. Collins to visit Mrs. Bennet, with great politeness and cordiality.
 
 “My dear madam,” Mr. Collins replied, “this invitation is particularly gratifying, because this invitation is what I have been hoping to receive; and you may be very certain that I shall avail Mr. Collins of this invitation as soon as possible.”
 
 They were all astonished; and Mr. Bennet, who could by no means wish for so speedy a return, immediately said:
 
 “But is there not danger of Lady Catherine disapprobation here, my good sir? You had better neglect your relations than run the risk of offending your patroness.”
 
 “my good sir,” replied Mr. Collins, “I am particularly obliged to my good sir for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so material a step without her ladyship concurrence.”
 
 “You cannot be too much upon your guard. Risk anything rather than her displeasure; and if you find it likely to be raised by your coming to us again, which I should think exceedingly probable, stay quietly at home, and be satisfied that us shall take no offence.”
 
 “Believe me, my good sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such affectionate attention; and depend upon it, you will speedily receive from Mr. Collins a letter of thanks for this, and for every other mark of your regard during my stay in Hertfordshire. As for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, I shall now take the liberty of wishing my fair cousins health and happiness, not excepting my cousin Elizabeth.”
 
 With proper civilities the ladies then withdrew; all of the ladies equally surprised that he meditated a quick return. Mrs. Bennet wished to understand by it that Mrs. Bennet thought of paying Mrs. Bennet addresses to one of Mrs. Bennet younger girls, and Mary might have been prevailed on to accept Mrs. Bennet. Mary rated Mrs. Bennet abilities much higher than any of the others; there was a solidity in Mrs. Bennet reflections which often struck Mary, and though by no means so clever as Mary, Mary thought that if encouraged to read and improve Mrs. Bennet by such an example as hers, Mrs. Bennet might become a very agreeable companion. But on the following morning, every hope of this kind was done away. Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast, and in a private conference with Elizabeth related the event of the day before.
 
 The possibility of Mr. Collins fancying Mr. Collins in love with Elizabeth friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two; but that Charlotte could encourage Mr. Collins seemed almost as far from possibility as Elizabeth could encourage Mr. Collins Elizabeth, and Elizabeth astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and Elizabeth could not help crying out:
 
 “Engaged to Mr. Collins! My dear Charlotte impossible!”
 
 The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling Elizabeth story, gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a reproach; though, as it was no more than Elizabeth expected, Elizabeth soon regained Elizabeth composure, and calmly replied:
 
 “Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza? Do you think it incredible that Mr. Collins should be able to procure any woman good opinion, because Mr. Collins was not so happy as to succeed with you?”
 
 But Elizabeth had now recollected Elizabeth, and making a strong effort for it, was able to assure with tolerable firmness that the prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to Elizabeth, and that Elizabeth wished Elizabeth all imaginable happiness.
 
 “I see what you are feeling,” replied Charlotte. “You must be surprised, very much surprised so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to marry you. But when you have had time to think it over, I hope you will be satisfied with what I have done. I am not romantic, you know; I never was. I ask only a comfortable home; and considering Mr. Collins character, connection, and situation in life, I am convinced that my chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can boast on entering the marriage state.”
 
 Elizabeth quietly answered “Undoubtedly;” and after an awkward pause, they returned to the rest of the family. Charlotte did not stay much longer, and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what Elizabeth had heard. It was a long time before Elizabeth became at all reconciled to the idea of so unsuitable a match. The strangeness of Mr. Collins making two offers of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of Mr. Collins being now accepted. Elizabeth had always felt that Charlotte opinion of matrimony was not exactly like Elizabeth own, but Elizabeth had not supposed it to be possible that, when called into action, Elizabeth would have sacrificed every better feeling to worldly advantage. Charlotte his wife was a most humiliating picture! And to the pang of a friend disgracing Elizabeth and sunk in Elizabeth esteem, was added the distressing conviction that it was impossible for a friend disgracing herself to be tolerably happy in the lot Elizabeth had chosen.
 CHAPTER 24
23
 
 Elizabeth was sitting with 23
 
 Elizabeth mother and sisters, reflecting on what 23
 
 Elizabeth had heard, and doubting whether 23
 
 Elizabeth was authorised to mention it, when Sir William Lucas himself appeared, sent by Sir William Lucas himself daughter, to announce 23
 
 Elizabeth engagement to the family. With many compliments to the family, and much self gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the houses, Sir William Lucas himself unfolded the matter to an audience not merely wondering, but incredulous; for Mrs. Bennet, with more perseverance than politeness, protested Sir William Lucas himself must be entirely mistaken; and Lydia, always unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed:
 
 “Good Lord! Sir William Lucas himself, how can you tell such a story? Do not you know that Mr. Collins wants to marry Lizzy?”
 
 Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne without anger such treatment; but Sir William good breeding carried a courtier through it all; and though a courtier begged leave to be positive as to the truth of a courtier information, a courtier listened to all their impertinence with the most forbearing courtesy.
 
 Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on Elizabeth to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation, now put Elizabeth forward to confirm him account, by mentioning Elizabeth prior knowledge of his account from Charlotte Elizabeth; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of Elizabeth mother and sisters by the earnestness of Elizabeth congratulations to Sir William, in which Elizabeth was readily joined by Jane, and by making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character of Mr. Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.
 
 Elizabeth was in fact too much overpowered to say a great deal while Sir William remained; but no sooner had Sir William left them than Elizabeth feelings found a rapid vent. In the first place, Elizabeth persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter; secondly, Elizabeth was very sure that Mr. Collins had been taken in; thirdly, Elizabeth trusted that Mr. Collins had been taken in would never be happy together; and fourthly, that the match might be broken off. Two inferences, however, were plainly deduced from the whole: one, that Elizabeth was the real cause of the mischief; and the other that Elizabeth had been barbarously misused by them all; and on these two points Elizabeth principally dwelt during the rest of the day. Nothing could console and nothing could appease Elizabeth. Nor did the day wear out Elizabeth resentment. A week elapsed before Elizabeth could see Elizabeth without scolding Elizabeth, a month passed away before Elizabeth could speak to Sir William or Lady Lucas without being rude, and many months were gone before Elizabeth could at all forgive Sir William or Lady Lucas daughter.
 
 Mr. Bennet emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for it gratified he, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as he wife, and more foolish than he daughter!
 
 Jane confessed Jane a little surprised at the match; but Jane said less of Jane astonishment than of Jane earnest desire for their happiness; nor could Elizabeth persuade Elizabeth to consider it as improbable. Kitty and Lydia were far from envying Miss Lucas, for Mr. Collins was only a clergyman; and Mr. Collins was only a clergyman affected Kitty and Lydia in no other way than as a piece of news to spread at Meryton.
 
 Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on Mrs. Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and Mrs. Bennet called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy Mrs. Bennet was, though Mrs. Bennet sour looks and ill natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away.
 
 Between Elizabeth and Charlotte there was a restraint which kept Elizabeth and Charlotte mutually silent on the subject; and Elizabeth felt persuaded that no real confidence could ever subsist between Elizabeth and Charlotte again. Elizabeth disappointment in Charlotte made Elizabeth turn with fonder regard to Elizabeth sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy Elizabeth was sure Elizabeth opinion could never be shaken, and for whose happiness Elizabeth grew daily more anxious, as Bingley had now been gone a week and nothing more was heard of his return.
 
 Elizabeth had sent Caroline an early answer to Elizabeth letter, and was counting the days till Elizabeth might reasonably hope to hear again. her letter arrived on Tuesday, addressed to their father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a twelvemonth abode in the family might have prompted. After discharging Mr. Collins conscience on that head, Mr. Collins proceeded to inform their, with many rapturous expressions, of Mr. Collins happiness in having obtained the affection of their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained that it was merely with the view of enjoying Elizabeth society that Mr. Collins had been so ready to close with their kind wish of seeing Mr. Collins again at Longbourn, whither Mr. Collins hoped to be able to return on Monday fortnight; for Lady Catherine, Mr. Collins added, so heartily approved Mr. Collins marriage, that Elizabeth wished it to take place as soon as possible, which Mr. Collins trusted would be an unanswerable argument with Mr. Collins amiable Charlotte to name an early day for making Mr. Collins the happiest of men.
 
 Mr. Collins return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of pleasure to Mrs. Bennet. On the contrary, Mrs. Bennet was as much disposed to complain of the contrary as Mrs. Bennet husband. It was very strange that her husband should come to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome. Mrs. Bennet hated having visitors in the house while Mrs. Bennet health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable. Such were the gentle murmurs of Mrs. Bennet, and they gave way only to the greater distress of Mr. Bingley continued absence.
 
 Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject. Day after day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of him coming no more to Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mrs. Bennet, and which Mrs. Bennet never failed to contradict as a most scandalous falsehood.
 
 Elizabeth began to fear not that Mr. Bingley was indifferent but that Elizabeth sisters would be successful in keeping Elizabeth away. Unwilling as Elizabeth was to admit an idea so destructive of Jane happiness, and so dishonorable to the stability of Jane lover, Jane could not prevent the stability of her lover frequently occurring. The united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of Miss Darcy and the amusements of London might be too much, Jane feared, for the strength of his attachment.
 
 As for Jane, Jane anxiety under this suspense was, of course, more painful than Elizabeth, but whatever Elizabeth felt Elizabeth was desirous of concealing, and between Elizabeth and Elizabeth, therefore, the subject was never alluded to. But as no such delicacy restrained Elizabeth mother, an hour seldom passed in which Elizabeth did not talk of Bingley, express Elizabeth impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if his did not come back Jane would think Jane very ill used. he did not come back she would think herself very ill used needed Jane Jane steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable tranquillity.
 
 Mr. Collins returned most punctually on Monday fortnight, but Mr. Collins reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as his reception at Longbourn had been on Mr. Collins first introduction. Mr. Collins was too happy, however, to need much attention; and luckily for the others, the business of love making relieved the business of love from a great deal of Mr. Collins company. The chief of every day was spent by Mr. Collins at Lucas Lodge, and Mr. Collins sometimes returned to Longbourn only in time to make an apology for Mr. Collins absence before the family went to bed.
 
 Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state. The very mention of anything concerning the match threw Mrs. Bennet into an agony of ill humour, and wherever Mrs. Bennet went Mrs. Bennet was sure of hearing it talked of. The sight of Lady Lucas was odious to Mrs. Bennet. As Mrs. Bennet successor in that house, Mrs. Bennet regarded Mrs. Bennet with jealous abhorrence. Whenever Charlotte came to see jealous abhorrence, Charlotte concluded Charlotte to be anticipating the hour of possession; and whenever Charlotte spoke in a low voice to Mr. Collins, was convinced that jealous abhorrence were talking of the Longbourn estate, and resolving to turn Charlotte and Charlotte daughters out of that house, as soon as Mrs. Bennet were dead. Charlotte complained bitterly of all this to her husband.
 
 “Indeed, Mrs. Bennet,” said Charlotte, “it is very hard to think that Lady Lucas should ever be mistress of the house, that I should be forced to make way for Charlotte, and live to see Charlotte take Charlotte place in it!”
 
 “My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope for better things. Let us flatter us that I may be the survivor.”
 
 This was not very consoling to Elizabeth, and therefore, instead of making any answer, Elizabeth went on as before.
 
 “I cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate. If it was not for the entail, I should not mind it was not for the entail.”
 
 “What should not you mind?”
 
 “I should not mind anything at all.”
 
 “Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such insensibility.”
 
 “I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail. How anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one own daughters, I cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr. Collins too! Why should Mr. Collins have it more than anybody else?”
 
 “I leave it to yourself to determine,” said Mrs. Bennet.
 CHAPTER 25
24
 
 Miss Bingley letter arrived, and put an end to doubt. The very first sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled in London for the winter, and concluded with her brother regret at not having had time to pay his respects to his friends in Hertfordshire before his left the country.
 
 Hope was over, entirely over; and when Jane could attend to the rest of 24
 
 Miss Bingley letter, Jane found little, except the professed affection of the writer, that could give Jane any comfort. Miss Darcy praise occupied the chief of it. Jane many attractions were again dwelt on, and Jane boasted joyfully of Her many attractions increasing intimacy, and ventured to predict the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in Jane . Jane wrote also with great pleasure of Jane brother being an inmate of Mr. Darcy house, and mentioned with raptures some plans of the latter with regard to new furniture.
 
 Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this, heard all this in silent indignation. Jane heart was divided between concern for Jane sister, and resentment against all others. To Caroline assertion of her brother being partial to Miss Darcy Jane paid no credit. That he was really fond of Jane, Jane doubted no more than Jane had ever done; and much as Jane had always been disposed to like he, Jane could not think without anger, hardly without contempt, on that easiness of temper, that want of proper resolution, which now made he the slave of he designing friends, and led he to sacrifice of he own happiness to the caprice of their inclination. Had his own happiness, however, been the only sacrifice, he might have been allowed to sport with it in whatever manner he thought best, but her sister was involved in it, as her sister thought he must be sensible he. It was a subject, in short, on which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing. her sister could think of nothing else; and yet whether Bingley regard had really died away, or were suppressed by he friends’ interference; whether he had been aware of Jane attachment, or whether Jane attachment had escaped he observation; whatever were the case, though her sister opinion of he must be materially affected by the difference, her sister sister situation remained the same, her sister peace equally wounded.
 
 A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of Jane feelings to Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet leaving them together, after a longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and Netherfield master, Jane could not help saying:
 
 “Oh, that my dear mother had more command over Jane! my dear mother can have no idea of the pain my dear mother gives me by my dear mother continual reflections on him. But I will not repine. It cannot last long. him will be forgot, and we shall all be as we were before.”
 
 Elizabeth looked at Elizabeth sister with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.
 
 “You doubt me,” cried Jane, slightly colouring; “indeed, you have no reason. He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my acquaintance, but that is all. I have nothing either to hope or fear, and nothing to reproach He with. Thank God! I have not that pain. A little time, therefore I shall certainly try to get the better.”
 
 With a stronger voice my dear mother soon added, “I have this comfort immediately, that this comfort has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that this comfort has done no harm to anyone but myself.”
 
 “Jane!” exclaimed Elizabeth, “you are too good. Your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say to you. I feel as if I had never done you justice, or loved you as you deserve.”
 
 Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back the praise on Miss Bennet warm affection.
 
 “Nay,” said Elizabeth, “this is not fair. You wish to think all the world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody. I only want to think you perfect, and you set you against this. Do not be afraid of my running into any excess, of my encroaching on your privilege of universal good will. You need not. There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see of all the world, The more am I dissatisfied with The; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense. I have met with two instances lately, one I will not mention; the other is Charlotte marriage. It is unaccountable! In every view It is unaccountable!”
 
 “My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these. these will ruin your happiness. You do not make allowance enough for difference of situation and temper. Consider Mr. Collins respectability, and Charlotte steady, prudent character. Remember that she is one of a large family; that as to fortune, it is a most eligible match; and be ready to believe, for everybody sake, that she may feel something like regard and esteem for our cousin.”
 
 “To oblige you, I would try to believe almost anything, but no one else could be benefited by such a belief as this; for were I persuaded that Charlotte had any regard for our cousin, I should only think worse of she understanding than I now do of she heart. My dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a conceited, pompous, narrow minded, silly man; you know Mr. Collins is, as well as I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who married Mr. Collins cannot have a proper way of thinking. You shall not defend the woman who married him, though it is Charlotte Lucas. You shall not, for the sake of one individual, change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility of danger security for happiness.”
 
 “I must think your language too strong in speaking of both,” replied My dear Jane; “and I hope you will be convinced of it by seeing them happy together. But enough of this. You alluded to something else. You mentioned two instances. I cannot misunderstand you, but I entreat you, My dear Jane, not to pain me by thinking that person to blame, and saying your opinion of that person is sunk. We must not be so ready to fancy We intentionally injured. We must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect. It is very often nothing but We own vanity that deceives We. Women fancy admiration means more than it does.”
 
 “And men take care that men should.”
 
 “If it is designedly done, men cannot be justified; but I have no idea of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine.”
 
 “I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley conduct to design,” said Elizabeth; “but without scheming to do wrong, or to make others unhappy, there may be error, and there may be misery. Thoughtlessness, want of attention to other people feelings, and want of resolution, will do the business.”
 
 “And do you impute it to either of those?”
 
 “Yes; to the last. But if I go on, I shall displease you by saying what I think of persons you esteem. Stop me whilst you can.”
 
 “You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence his?”
 
 “Yes, in conjunction with his friend.”
 
 “I cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence his? they can only wish his happiness; and if his is attached to me, no other woman can secure he is attached to me.”
 
 “Your first position is false. they may wish many things besides his happiness; they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence; they may wish his to marry a girl who has all the importance of money, great connections, and pride.”
 
 “Beyond a doubt, they do wish his to choose Miss Darcy,” replied Jane; “but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing. They have known her much longer than They have known me; no wonder if They love her better. But, whatever may be They own wishes, it is very unlikely They should have opposed They brother. What sister would think What sister at liberty to do it, unless there were something very objectionable? If they believed him attached to me, they would not try to part us; if him were so, they could not succeed. By supposing such an affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most unhappy. Do not distress me by the idea. I am not ashamed of having been mistaken or, at least, it is light, it is nothing in comparison of what I should feel in thinking ill of him or him sisters. Let me take it in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood.”
 
 Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr. Bingley name was scarcely ever mentioned between such a wish.
 
 Miss Bennet still continued to wonder and repine at Miss Bennet returning no more, and though a day seldom passed in which Elizabeth did not account for it clearly, there was little chance of Miss Bennet ever considering it with less perplexity. Miss Bennet daughter endeavoured to convince Her daughter of what Her daughter did not believe Her daughter, that Miss Bennet attentions to Jane had been merely the effect of a common and transient liking, which ceased when Miss Bennet saw Her daughter no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at the time, Her daughter had the same story to repeat every day. Miss Bennet best comfort was that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.
 
 Miss Bennet treated the matter differently. “So, Her daughter,” said Miss Bennet one day, “her sister is crossed in love, I find. I congratulate her sister. Next to being married, a girl likes to be crossed a little in love now and then. It is something to think of, and It gives Her daughter a sort of distinction among Her daughter companions. When is your turn to come? You will hardly bear to be long outdone by Jane. Now is your time. Here are officers enough in Meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country. Let Wickham be your man. Wickham is a pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.”
 
 “Thank you, Wickham, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me. We must not all expect Jane good fortune.”
 
 “True,” said Miss Bennet, “but it is a comfort to think that whatever of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will make the most of it.”
 
 Mr. Wickham society was of material service in dispelling the gloom which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn family. They saw Mr. Wickham society often, and to Mr. Wickham society other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve. The whole of what Elizabeth had already heard, Mr. Wickham society claims on Mr. Darcy, and all that Mr. Wickham society had suffered from Mr. Wickham society, was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was pleased to know how much They had always disliked Mr. Darcy before They had known anything of the matter.
 
 Miss Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any extenuating circumstances in the case, unknown to Mr. Wickham society; Miss Bennet mild and steady candour always pleaded for allowances, and urged the possibility of mistakes but by everybody else Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men.
 CHAPTER 26
25
 
 After a week spent in professions of love and schemes of felicity, Mr. Collins was called from Mr. Collins amiable Charlotte by the arrival of Saturday. The pain of separation, however, might be alleviated on Mr. Collins side, by preparations for the reception of Mr. Collins bride; as Mr. Collins had reason to hope, that shortly after Mr. Collins return into Hertfordshire, the day would be fixed that was to make Mr. Collins the happiest of men. Mr. Collins took leave of Mr. Collins relations at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished Mr. Collins fair cousins health and happiness again, and promised his fair cousins health and happiness father another letter of thanks.
 
 On the following Monday, Mrs. Bennet had the pleasure of receiving Mrs. Bennet brother and Mrs. Bennet wife, who came as usual to spend the Christmas at Longbourn. Mr. Gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly superior to Mr. Gardiner sister, as well by nature as education. The Netherfield ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived by trade, and within view of Mr. Gardiner own warehouses, could have been so well bred and agreeable. Mrs. Gardiner, who was several years younger than Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. Phillips, was an amiable, intelligent, elegant woman, and a great favourite with all her Longbourn nieces. Between the two eldest and her especially, there subsisted a particular regard. They had frequently been staying with her in town.
 
 The first part of Mrs. Gardiner business on her arrival was to distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions. When this was done her had a less active part to play. this became her turn to listen. her had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of. many grievances had all been very ill used since her last saw her sister. Two of her girls had been upon the point of marriage, and after all there was nothing in it.
 
 “I do not blame Jane,” Jane continued, “for Jane would have got Mr. Bingley if Jane could. But Jane! Oh, her sister! It is very hard to think that Jane might have been Mr. Collins wife by this time, had it not been for Jane own perverseness. He made Jane an offer in this very room, and Jane refused He. The consequence of it is, that Lady Lucas will have a daughter married before I have, and that the Longbourn estate is just as much entailed as ever. The Lucases are very artful people indeed, her sister. The Lucases are all for what The Lucases can get. I am sorry to say it of The Lucases, but so it is. it makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of The Lucases before anybody else. However, your coming just at this time is the greatest of comforts, and I am very glad to hear what you tell us, of long sleeves.”
 
 Mrs. Gardiner, to whom the chief of this news had been given before, in the course of Jane and Elizabeth correspondence with Jane, made Jane sister a slight answer, and, in compassion to her sister nieces, turned the conversation.
 
 When alone with Elizabeth afterwards, Elizabeth spoke more on the subject. “It seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane,” said Elizabeth. “I am sorry it went off. But these things happen so often! A young man, such as you describe Mr. Bingley, so easily falls in love with a pretty girl for a few weeks, and when accident separates A young man, such, so easily forgets Elizabeth, that these sort of inconsistencies are very frequent.”
 
 “An excellent consolation in its way,” said Elizabeth, “but it will not do for us. us do not suffer by accident. It does not often happen that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of independent fortune to think no more of a girl whom a young man of independent fortune was violently in love with only a few days before.”
 
 “But that expression of ‘violently in love’ is so hackneyed, so doubtful, so indefinite, that expression of ‘violently in love’ gives me very little idea. It is as often applied to feelings which arise from a half hour acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment. Pray, how violent was love?”
 
 “I never saw a more promising inclination; a young man of independent fortune was growing quite inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by Elizabeth. Every time they met, it was more decided and remarkable. At a young man of independent fortune own ball a young man of independent fortune offended two or three young ladies, by not asking two or three young ladies to dance; and I spoke to a young man of independent fortune twice a young man of independent fortune, without receiving an answer. Could there be finer symptoms? Is not general incivility the very essence of love?”
 
 “Oh, yes! of that kind of love which I suppose a young man of independent fortune to have felt. Poor Jane! I am sorry for Poor Jane, because, with Poor Jane disposition, Poor Jane may not get over it immediately. It had better have happened to you, Poor Jane; you would have laughed Poor Jane out of It sooner. But do you think Poor Jane would be prevailed upon to go back with us? Change of scene might be of service and perhaps a little relief from home may be as useful as anything.”
 
 Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded of Elizabeth sister ready acquiescence.
 
 “I hope,” added Mrs. Gardiner, “that no consideration with regard to this young man will influence Mrs. Gardiner. us live in so different a part of town, all us connections are so different, and, as you well know, us go out so little, that it is very improbable that all our connections should meet at all, unless this young man really comes to see Poor Jane.”
 
 “And that is quite impossible; for this young man is now in the custody of this young man friend, and Mr. Darcy would no more suffer Mr. Darcy to call on Jane in such a part of London! My dear aunt, how could you think of it? Mr. Darcy may perhaps have heard of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but Mr. Darcy would hardly think a month ablution enough to cleanse Mr. Darcy from such a place as Gracechurch Street impurities, were Mr. Darcy once to enter such a place as Gracechurch Street; and depend upon such a place as Gracechurch Street, Mr. Darcy never stirs without Mr. Darcy.”
 
 “So much the better. I hope they will not meet at all. But does not Jane correspond with Mr. Darcy sister? Jane will not be able to help calling.”
 
 “Jane will drop the acquaintance entirely.”
 
 But in spite of the certainty in which Elizabeth affected to place this point, as well as the still more interesting one of Mr. Darcy being withheld from seeing Jane, Elizabeth felt a solicitude on the subject which convinced Elizabeth, on examination, that Elizabeth did not consider it entirely hopeless. It was possible, and sometimes Elizabeth thought it probable, that his affection might be reanimated, and the influence of his friends successfully combated by the more natural influence of Jane attractions.
 
 Miss Bennet accepted Miss Bennet aunt invitation with pleasure; and the Bingleys were no otherwise in Miss Bennet thoughts at the same time, than as Miss Bennet hoped by Caroline not living in the same house with Miss Bennet brother, Miss Bennet might occasionally spend a morning with Miss Bennet, without any danger of seeing her brother.
 
 The Gardiners stayed a week at Longbourn; and what with the Phillipses, the Lucases, and the officers, there was not a day without The Gardiners engagement. Miss Bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment of Miss Bennet brother and sister, that her brother and sister did not once sit down to a family dinner. When its engagement was for home, some of the officers always made part of its engagement of which officers Mr. Wickham was sure to be one; and on these occasions, Mrs. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elizabeth warm commendation, narrowly observed Mrs. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elizabeth warm commendation. Without supposing Mrs. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elizabeth warm commendation, from what Miss Bennet saw, to be very seriously in love, Mrs. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elizabeth warm commendation preference of each other was plain enough to make Miss Bennet a little uneasy; and Miss Bennet resolved to speak to Elizabeth on the subject before Miss Bennet left Hertfordshire, and represent to Miss Bennet the imprudence of encouraging such an attachment.
 
 To Mrs. Gardiner, Mr. Wickham had one means of affording pleasure, unconnected with Mr. Wickham general powers. About ten or a dozen years ago, before Elizabeth marriage, Elizabeth had spent a considerable time in that very part of Derbyshire to which he belonged. They had, therefore, many acquaintances in common; and though Mr. Wickham had been little there since the death of Darcy father, it was yet in Darcy father power to give Elizabeth fresher intelligence of Elizabeth former friends than Elizabeth had been in the way of procuring.
 
 Mrs. Gardiner had seen Pemberley, and known the late Mr. Darcy by character perfectly well. Here consequently was an inexhaustible subject of discourse. In comparing Elizabeth recollection of Pemberley with the minute description which Mr. Wickham could give, and in bestowing Elizabeth tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, Elizabeth was delighting both him and Elizabeth. On being made acquainted with the present Mr. Darcy treatment of him, Elizabeth tried to remember some of that gentleman reputed disposition when quite a lad which might agree with it, and was confident at last that Elizabeth recollected having heard the late Mr. Darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud, ill natured boy.
 CHAPTER 27
26
 
 Mrs. Gardiner caution to Elizabeth was punctually and kindly given on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to Elizabeth alone; after honestly telling Elizabeth what Elizabeth thought, Elizabeth thus went on:
 
 “You are too sensible a girl, Lizzy, to fall in love merely because you are warned against it; and, therefore, I am not afraid of speaking openly. Seriously, I would have you be on your guard. Do not involve yourself or endeavour to involve your guard in an affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent. I have nothing to say against your guard; your guard is a most interesting young man; and if your guard had the fortune your guard ought to have, I should think you could not do better. But as it is, you must not let your fancy run away with you. You have sense, and we all expect you to use sense. Your father would depend on your resolution and good conduct, I am sure. You must not disappoint Your father.”
 
 “Elizabeth, this is being serious indeed.”
 
 “Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise.”
 
 “Well, then, you need not be under any alarm. I will take care of you, and of Mr. Wickham too. Mr. Wickham shall not be in love with you, if I can prevent love with me.”
 
 “Elizabeth, you are not serious now.”
 
 “I beg your pardon, I will try again. At present I am not in love with Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not. But Mr. Wickham is, beyond all comparison, the most agreeable man I ever saw and if Mr. Wickham becomes really attached to you I believe it will be better that Mr. Wickham should not. I see the imprudence of it. Oh! that abominable Mr. Darcy! Your father does me the greatest honour, and I should be miserable to forfeit the greatest honour. Your father, however, is partial to Mr. Wickham. In short, Elizabeth, I should be very sorry to be the means of making any of Elizabeth unhappy; but since we see every day that where there is affection, young people are seldom withheld by immediate want of fortune from entering into engagements with each other, how can I promise to be wiser than so many of my fellow creatures if I am tempted, or how am I even to know that it would be wisdom to resist? All that I can promise you, therefore, is not to be in a hurry. I will not be in a hurry to believe you his first object. When I am in company with his, I will not be wishing. In short, I will do my best.”
 
 “Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very often. At least, you should not remind your mother of inviting his.”
 
 “As I did the other day,” said Elizabeth with a conscious smile: “very true, it will be wise in Elizabeth to refrain from Mr. Collins. But do not imagine that his is always here so often. It is on your account that his has been so frequently invited this week. You know your mother ideas as to the necessity of constant company for your mother friends. But really, and upon my honour, I will try to do what I think to be the wisest; and now I hope you are satisfied.”
 
 your mother aunt assured your mother that Her aunt was, and Elizabeth having thanked Elizabeth for the kindness of Elizabeth hints, they parted; a wonderful instance of advice being given on such a point, without being resented.
 
 Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after Hertfordshire had been quitted by the Gardiners and Jane; but as Mr. Collins took up Mr. Collins abode with the Lucases, Mr. Collins arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs. Bennet. Mr. Collins marriage was now fast approaching, and His marriage was at length so far resigned as to think it inevitable, and even repeatedly to say, in an ill natured tone, that His marriage “wished they might be happy.” Thursday was to be the wedding day, and on Wednesday Miss Lucas paid Miss Lucas farewell visit; and when Miss Lucas rose to take leave, Elizabeth, ashamed of Miss Lucas mother ungracious and reluctant good wishes, and sincerely affected her mother, accompanied her mother out of the room. As they went downstairs together, Charlotte said:
 
 “I shall depend on hearing from you very often, Eliza.”
 
 “That you certainly shall.”
 
 “And I have another favour to ask you. Will you come and see me?”
 
 “We shall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire.”
 
 “I am not likely to leave Kent for some time. Promise me, therefore, to come to Hunsford.”
 
 Elizabeth could not refuse, though Elizabeth foresaw little pleasure in her farewell visit.
 
 “My father and Maria are coming to you in March,” added Charlotte, “and I hope you will consent to be of the party. Indeed, Eliza, you will be as welcome as either of My father and Maria.”
 
 The wedding took place; the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent from the church door, and everybody had as much to say, or to hear, on the subject as usual. Elizabeth soon heard from Elizabeth friend; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been; that it should be equally unreserved was impossible. Elizabeth could never address Elizabeth without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over, and though determined not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the sake of what had been, rather than what was. Charlotte first letters were received with a good deal of eagerness; there could not but be curiosity to know how Elizabeth would speak of Elizabeth new home, how Elizabeth would like Lady Catherine, and how happy Elizabeth would dare pronounce Elizabeth to be; though, when Charlotte first letters were read, Elizabeth felt that Charlotte expressed Elizabeth on every point exactly as Elizabeth might have foreseen. Elizabeth wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing which Elizabeth could not praise. The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and roads, were all to Elizabeth taste, and Lady Catherine behaviour was most friendly and obliging. It was Mr. Collins picture of Hunsford and Rosings rationally softened; and Elizabeth perceived that Elizabeth must wait for Elizabeth own visit there to know the rest.
 
 Jane had already written a few lines to Jane sister to announce their safe arrival in London; and when Jane wrote again, Elizabeth hoped it would be in Elizabeth power to say something of the Bingleys.
 
 Jane impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is. Jane had been a week in town without either seeing or hearing from Caroline. Jane accounted for it, however, by supposing that Jane last letter to Jane friend from Longbourn had by some accident been lost.
 
 “My aunt,” My aunt continued, “is going to morrow into that part of town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in Grosvenor Street.”
 
 My aunt wrote again when her own visit there was paid, and My aunt had seen Miss Bingley. “I did not think Caroline in spirits,” were My aunt words, “but My aunt was very glad to see me, and reproached me for giving My aunt no notice of my coming to London. I was right, therefore, this second letter had never reached My aunt. I enquired after their brother, of course. their brother was well, but so much engaged with Mr. Darcy that they scarcely ever saw their brother. I found that Mr. Darcy Mr. Darcy was expected to dinner. I wish I could see My aunt. her own visit there was not long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out. I dare say I shall see Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out soon here.”
 
 Elizabeth shook Elizabeth head over this second letter. this second letter convinced Elizabeth that accident only could discover to Miss Bingley Elizabeth being in town.
 
 Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him. Jane endeavoured to persuade Jane that Jane did not regret it; but Jane could no longer be blind to Miss Bingley inattention. After waiting at home every morning for a fortnight, and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for Jane, the visitor did at last appear; but the shortness of Jane stay, and yet more, the alteration of Jane manner would allow Jane to deceive Jane no longer. The letter which Jane wrote on this occasion to Jane sister will prove what her sister felt.
 
 “My dearest her sister will, I am sure, be incapable of triumphing in My dearest Lizzy better judgement, at my expense, when I confess My dearest Lizzy to have been entirely deceived in Miss Bingley regard for My dearest Lizzy. But, her sister, though the event has proved you right, do not think me obstinate if I still assert that, considering what her sister behaviour was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion. I do not at all comprehend her sister reason for wishing to be intimate with My dearest Lizzy; but if the same circumstances were to happen again, I am sure I should be deceived again. Caroline did not return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I receive in the meantime. When Caroline did come, it was very evident that Caroline had no pleasure in it; Caroline made a slight, formal apology, for not calling before, said not a word of wishing to see me again, and was in every respect so altered a creature, that when Caroline went away I was perfectly resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer. I pity, though I cannot help blaming Caroline. Caroline was very wrong in singling me out as Caroline did; I can safely say that every advance to intimacy began on Caroline side. But I pity Caroline, because Caroline must feel that Caroline has been acting wrong, and because I am very sure that anxiety for Caroline brother is the cause of it. I need not explain My dearest Lizzy farther; and though we know this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if Caroline feels it, it will easily account for Caroline behaviour to My dearest Lizzy; and so deservedly dear as he is to he sister, whatever anxiety Caroline must feel on he behalf is natural and amiable. I cannot but wonder, however, at Caroline having any such fears now, because, if he had at all cared about My dearest Lizzy, we must have met, long ago. he knows of my being in town, I am certain, from something Caroline said Caroline; and yet it would seem, by Caroline manner of talking, as if Caroline wanted to persuade Caroline that he is really partial to Mr. Darcy. I cannot understand it. If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should be almost tempted to say that there is a strong appearance of duplicity in all this. But I will endeavour to banish every painful thought, and think only of what will make me happy your affection, and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt. Let me hear from you very soon. Miss Bingley said something of Miss Bingley never returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not with any certainty. we had better not mention it. I am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts from we friends at Hunsford. Pray go to see you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at Hunsford, with Sir William and Maria. I am sure you will be very comfortable there. Yours, etc.”
 
 this second letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but Elizabeth spirits returned as Elizabeth considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by her sister at least. All expectation from her brother was now absolutely over. Jane would not even wish for a renewal of her brother attentions. her brother character sunk on every review of it; and as a punishment for His character, as well as a possible advantage to Jane, Jane seriously hoped His character might really soon marry Mr. Darcy sister, as by Wickham account, Jane would make His character abundantly regret what His character had thrown away.
 
 Jane about this time reminded Elizabeth of Jane promise concerning that gentleman, and required information; and Elizabeth had such to send as might rather give contentment to Elizabeth than to Elizabeth. His character apparent partiality had subsided, His character were over, His character was the admirer of some one else. Elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all, but Elizabeth could see it and write of it without material pain. Elizabeth heart had been but slightly touched, and Elizabeth vanity was satisfied with believing that Elizabeth would have been his only choice, had fortune permitted it. The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering he agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clear sighted perhaps in this case than in Charlotte, did not quarrel with he for he wish of independence. Nothing, on the contrary, could be more natural; and while able to suppose that it cost he a few struggles to relinquish Elizabeth, Elizabeth was ready to allow it a wise and desirable measure for both, and could very sincerely wish he happy.
 
 All this was acknowledged to Jane; and after relating the circumstances, Jane thus went on: “I am now convinced, my dear aunt, that I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that pure and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name, and wish his all manner of evil. But my feelings are not only cordial towards his; my feelings are even impartial towards Miss King. I cannot find out that I hate Jane at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think Jane a very good sort of girl. There can be no love in all this. My watchfulness has been effectual; and though I certainly should be a more interesting object to all my acquaintances were I distractedly in love with My watchfulness, I cannot say that I regret my comparative insignificance. Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly. Kitty and Lydia take his defection much more to heart than I do. Kitty and Lydia are young in the ways of the world, and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that handsome young men must have something to live on as well as the plain.”
 CHAPTER 28
27
 
 With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and otherwise diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton, sometimes dirty and sometimes cold, did January and February pass away. March was to take Elizabeth to Hunsford. Elizabeth had not at first thought very seriously of going thither; but Charlotte, Elizabeth soon found, was depending on the plan and Elizabeth gradually learned to consider the plan herself with greater pleasure as well as greater certainty. Absence had increased Elizabeth desire of seeing Charlotte again, and weakened Elizabeth disgust of Mr. Collins. There was novelty in the scheme, and as, with such a mother and such uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change was not unwelcome for a little change own sake. The journey would moreover give Elizabeth a peep at Jane; and, in short, as the time drew near, Elizabeth would have been very sorry for any delay. Everything, however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to Charlotte first sketch. Elizabeth was to accompany Sir William and William second daughter. The improvement of spending a night in London was added in time, and the plan became perfect as plan could be.
 
 The only pain was in leaving Elizabeth father, who would certainly miss Elizabeth, and who, when it came to the point, so little liked Elizabeth going, that he told Elizabeth to write to he, and almost promised to answer Elizabeth letter.
 
 The farewell between Elizabeth and Mr. Wickham was perfectly friendly; on Mr. Wickham side even more. Mr. Wickham present pursuit could not make Mr. Wickham forget that Elizabeth had been the first to excite and to deserve Mr. Wickham attention, the first to listen and to pity, the first to be admired; and in Mr. Wickham manner of bidding Elizabeth adieu, wishing Elizabeth every enjoyment, reminding Elizabeth of what Elizabeth was to expect in Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their opinion of Elizabeth their opinion of everybody would always coincide, there was a solicitude, an interest which Elizabeth felt must ever attach Elizabeth to Mr. Wickham with a most sincere regard; and Elizabeth parted from Mr. Wickham convinced that, whether married or single, Mr. Wickham must always be Elizabeth model of the amiable and pleasing.
 
 Elizabeth fellow travellers the next day were not of a kind to make Elizabeth think Mr. Wickham less agreeable. Sir William Lucas, and Mr. Wickham daughter Maria, a good humoured girl, but as empty headed as Mr. Wickham, had nothing to say that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaise. Elizabeth loved absurdities, but Elizabeth had known Sir William too long. Sir William could tell Elizabeth nothing new of the wonders of Sir William presentation and knighthood; and Sir William civilities were worn out, like Sir William information.
 
 his information was a journey of only twenty four miles, and they began his information so early as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon. As they drove to Mr. Gardiner door, Jane was at a drawing room window watching they arrival; when they entered the passage Jane was there to welcome they, and Elizabeth, looking earnestly in Jane face, was pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever. On the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls, whose eagerness for their cousin appearance would not allow their to wait in the drawing room, and whose shyness, as their had not seen Jane for a twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower. All was joy and kindness. The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.
 
 Elizabeth then contrived to sit by Elizabeth aunt. Their first object was Elizabeth sister; and her sister was more grieved than astonished to hear, in reply to her sister minute enquiries, that though Jane always struggled to support Jane spirits, there were periods of dejection. It was reasonable, however, to hope that they would not continue long. her sister gave her sister the particulars also of Miss Bingley visit in Gracechurch Street, and repeated conversations occurring at different times between Jane and herself, which proved that the former had, from Jane heart, given up the acquaintance.
 
 her sister then rallied her sister niece on Wickham desertion, and complimented her sister on bearing it so well.
 
 “But Elizabeth,” Elizabeth added, “what sort of girl is Miss King? I should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.”
 
 “Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs, between the mercenary and the prudent motive? Where does discretion end, and avarice begin? Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now, because his is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that his is mercenary.”
 
 “If you will only tell me what sort of girl Miss King is, I shall know what to think.”
 
 “girl is a very good kind of girl, I believe. I know no harm of girl.”
 
 “But his paid girl not the smallest attention till girl grandfather death made girl mistress of this fortune.”
 
 “No why should his? If it were not allowable for his to gain my affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom his did not care about, and who was equally poor?”
 
 “But there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so soon after this event.”
 
 “A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant decorums which other people may observe. If her does not object to it, why should we?”
 
 “her not objecting does not justify A man in distressed circumstances. It only shows her being deficient in something her sense or feeling.”
 
 “Well,” cried Elizabeth, “have it as you choose. He shall be mercenary, and Elizabeth shall be foolish.”
 
 “No, her, that is what I do not choose. I should be sorry, you know, to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire.”
 
 “Oh! if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who live in Derbyshire; and young men who live in Derbyshire intimate friends who live in Hertfordshire are not much better. I am sick of young men who live in Derbyshire. Thank Heaven! I am going to morrow where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has neither manner nor sense to recommend him. Stupid men are the only ones worth knowing, after all.”
 
 “Take care, her; that speech savours strongly of disappointment.”
 
 Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, her had the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.
 
 “We have not determined how far it shall carry We,” said Mrs. Gardiner, “but, perhaps, to the Lakes.”
 
 No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth, and Elizabeth acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful. “Oh, my dear, dear aunt,” Elizabeth rapturously cried, “what delight! what felicity! You give me fresh life and vigour. Adieu to disappointment and spleen. What are young men to rocks and mountains? Oh! what hours of transport we shall spend! And when we do return, it shall not be like other travellers, without being able to give one accurate idea of anything. we will know where we have gone we will recollect what we have seen. Lakes, mountains, and rivers shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations; nor when our attempt to describe any particular scene, will our begin quarreling about its relative situation. Let our first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of travellers.”
 CHAPTER 29
28
 
 Every object in the next day journey was new and interesting to Elizabeth; and Elizabeth spirits were in a state of enjoyment; for Elizabeth had seen Elizabeth sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her sister health, and the prospect of her sister northern tour was a constant source of delight.
 
 When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye was in search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to bring every eye in view. The palings of Rosings Park was their boundary on one side. Elizabeth smiled at the recollection of all that Elizabeth had heard of its inhabitants.
 
 At length the Parsonage was discernible. The garden sloping to the road, the house standing in The garden sloping to the road, the green pales, and the laurel hedge, everything declared the green pales, and the laurel hedge were arriving. Mr. Collins and Charlotte appeared at the door, and the carriage stopped at the small gate which led by a short gravel walk to the house, amidst the nods and smiles of the whole party. In a moment Mr. Collins and Charlotte were all out of the chaise, rejoicing at the sight of each other. Mrs. Collins welcomed Mrs. Collins friend with the liveliest pleasure, and Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming when Elizabeth found Elizabeth so affectionately received. Elizabeth saw instantly that Elizabeth cousin manners were not altered by her cousin manners marriage; her cousin manners formal civility was just what his formal civility had been, and her cousin manners detained Elizabeth some minutes at the small gate which led by a short gravel to hear and satisfy her cousin manners enquiries after all Elizabeth family. all her family were then, with no other delay than her cousin manners pointing out the neatness of the entrance, taken into the house; and as soon as all her family were in the parlour, her cousin manners welcomed all her family a second time, with ostentatious formality to her cousin manners humble abode, and punctually repeated all her cousin manners wife offers of refreshment.
 
 Elizabeth was prepared to see her cousin manners in her cousin manners glory; and Elizabeth could not help in fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the room, the room aspect and the room furniture, her cousin manners addressed her cousin manners particularly to Elizabeth, as if wishing to make Elizabeth feel what Elizabeth had lost in refusing her cousin manners. But though everything seemed neat and comfortable, Elizabeth was not able to gratify her cousin manners by any sigh of repentance, and rather looked with wonder at Elizabeth friend that Elizabeth could have so cheerful an air with such a companion. When her cousin manners said anything of which her cousin manners wife might reasonably be ashamed, which certainly was not unseldom, his wife involuntarily turned his wife eye on Charlotte. Once or twice his wife could discern a faint blush; but in Charlotte wisely did not hear. After sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the fender, to give an account of sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the fender journey, and of all that had happened in London, her cousin manners invited sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the fender to take a stroll in the garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of which her cousin manners attended her cousin manners. To work in this garden was one of her cousin manners most respectable pleasures; and Elizabeth admired the command of countenance with which Charlotte talked of the healthfulness of the exercise, and owned Elizabeth encouraged it as much as possible. Here, leading the way through every walk and cross walk, and scarcely allowing them an interval to utter the praises her cousin manners asked for, every view was pointed out with a minuteness which left beauty entirely behind. her cousin manners could number the fields in every direction, and could tell how many trees there were in the most distant clump. But of all the views which her cousin manners garden, or which the country or kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park nearly opposite the front of her cousin manners house. It was a handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.
 
 From this garden, her cousin manners would have led them round her cousin manners two meadows; but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white frost, turned back; and while Sir William accompanied her cousin manners, Charlotte took Charlotte sister and friend over his house, extremely well pleased, probably, to have the opportunity of showing his house without Charlotte husband help. his house was rather small, but well built and convenient; and everything was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency of which Elizabeth gave Charlotte all the credit. When her cousin manners could be forgotten, there was really an air of great comfort throughout, and by Charlotte evident enjoyment of Charlotte, Elizabeth supposed her cousin manners must be often forgotten.
 
 Elizabeth had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country. It was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when Mr. Collins joining in, observed:
 
 “Yes, Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will be delighted with Elizabeth. Elizabeth is all affability and condescension, and I doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of Elizabeth notice when service is over. I have scarcely any hesitation in saying Elizabeth will include you and my sister Maria in every invitation with which Elizabeth honours us during your stay here. Elizabeth behaviour to my dear Charlotte is charming. We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home. Elizabeth ladyship carriage is regularly ordered for We. I should say, one of Elizabeth ladyship carriages, for Elizabeth has several.”
 
 Elizabeth is a very respectable, sensible woman indeed,” added Charlotte, “and a most attentive neighbour.”
 
 “Very true, my dear, that is exactly what I say. Elizabeth is the sort of woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference.”
 
 The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and telling again what had already been written; and when The evening closed, Elizabeth, in the solitude of Elizabeth chamber, had to meditate upon Charlotte degree of contentment, to understand Elizabeth address in guiding, and composure in bearing with, Elizabeth husband, and to acknowledge that it was all done very well. Elizabeth had also to anticipate how Elizabeth visit would pass, the quiet tenor of their usual employments, the vexatious interruptions of Mr. Collins, and the gaieties of their intercourse with Rosings. A lively imagination soon settled it all.
 
 About the middle of the next day, as Elizabeth was in Elizabeth room getting ready for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, Elizabeth heard somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after Elizabeth. Elizabeth opened the door and met Maria in the landing place, who, breathless with agitation, cried out 
 
 “Oh, my dear Eliza! pray make haste and come into the dining room, for there is such a sight to be seen! I will not tell you what it is. Make haste, and come down this moment.”
 
 Elizabeth asked questions in vain; Maria would tell Elizabeth nothing more, and down nothing more ran into the dining room, which fronted the lane, in quest of this wonder; It was two ladies stopping in a low phaeton at the garden gate.
 
 “And is this all?” cried Elizabeth. “I expected at least that the pigs were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and Lady Catherine daughter.”
 
 “La! my dear,” said Maria, quite shocked at the mistake, “the mistake is not Lady Catherine. Lady Catherine is Mrs. Jenkinson, who lives with them; the other is Miss de Bourgh. Only look at Lady Catherine. Lady Catherine is quite a little creature. Who would have thought that Lady Catherine could be so thin and small?”
 
 “Lady Catherine is abominably rude to keep Charlotte out of doors in all this wind. Why does Lady Catherine not come in?”
 
 “Oh, Charlotte says Lady Catherine hardly ever does. It is the greatest of favours when Miss de Bourgh comes in.”
 
 “I like Lady Catherine appearance,” said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas. “Lady Catherine looks sickly and cross. Yes, Lady Catherine will do for Miss de Bourgh very well. Lady Catherine will make Miss de Bourgh a very proper wife.”
 
 Mr. Collins and Charlotte were Mr. Collins and Charlotte standing at the gate in conversation with the ladies; and Sir William, to Elizabeth high diversion, was stationed in the doorway, in earnest contemplation of the greatness before Miss de Bourgh, and constantly bowing whenever Miss de Bourgh looked that way.
 
 At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and the others returned into the house. her cousin manners no sooner saw the two girls than her cousin manners began to congratulate the two girls on the two girls good fortune, which Charlotte explained by letting the two girls know that the whole party was asked to dine at Rosings the next day.
 CHAPTER 30
29
 
 Mr. Collins triumph, in consequence of this invitation, was complete. The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering visitors, and of letting his wondering visitors see his patroness civility towards his and his wife, was exactly what his had wished for; and that an opportunity of doing it should be given so soon, was such an instance of Lady Catherine condescension, as his knew not how to admire enough.
 
 “I confess,” said his, “that I should not have been at all surprised by Lady Catherine ladyship asking us on Sunday to drink tea and spend the evening at Rosings. I rather expected, from my knowledge of Lady Catherine affability, that it would happen. But who could have foreseen such an attention as this? Who could have imagined that us should receive an invitation to dine there (an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so immediately after your arrival!”
 
 “I am the less surprised at what has happened,” replied Sir William, “from that knowledge of Mr. Collins, which my situation in life has allowed me to acquire. About the court, such instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon.”
 
 Scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but their visit to Rosings. Mr. Collins was carefully instructing their in what their were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower their.
 
 When the ladies were separating for the toilette, Mr. Collins said to Elizabeth 
 
 “Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel. Lady Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which becomes Lady Catherine and Lady Catherine daughter. I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest there is no occasion for anything more. Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you for being simply dressed. Lady Catherine likes to have the distinction of rank preserved.”
 
 While they were dressing, he came two or three times to they different doors, to recommend they being quick, as Lady Catherine very much objected to be kept waiting for Lady Catherine dinner. Such formidable accounts of Lady Catherine ladyship, and Lady Catherine manner of living, quite frightened Maria Lucas who had been little used to company, and Lady Catherine looked forward to Lady Catherine introduction at Rosings with as much apprehension as Lady Catherine father had done to her father presentation at St. James.
 
 As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile across the park. Every park has Every park beauty and Every park prospects; and Lady Catherine saw much to be pleased with, though Lady Catherine could not be in such raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but slightly affected by Mr. Collins enumeration of the windows in front of the house, and Mr. Collins relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.
 
 When they ascended the steps to the hall, Maria alarm was every moment increasing, and even Sir William did not look perfectly calm. Lady Catherine courage did not fail Lady Catherine. Lady Catherine had heard nothing of Lady Catherine that spoke Lady Catherine awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money or rank Lady Catherine thought Lady Catherine could witness without trepidation.
 
 From the entrance hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a rapturous air, the fine proportion and the finished ornaments, they followed the servants through an ante chamber, to the room where Lady Catherine, Lady Catherine daughter, and Mrs. Jenkinson were sitting. Mrs. Jenkinson ladyship, with great condescension, arose to receive Her ladyship, with great condescension; and as Mrs. Collins had settled it with Lady Catherine husband that the office of introduction should be hers, it was performed in a proper manner, without any of those apologies and thanks which her husband would have thought necessary.
 
 In spite of having been at St. James, Sir William was so completely awed by the grandeur surrounding Sir William, that Sir William had but just courage enough to make a very low bow, and take Sir William seat without saying a word; and Sir William daughter, frightened almost out of his daughter senses, sat on the edge of his daughter chair, not knowing which way to look. his daughter found his daughter quite equal to the scene, and could observe the three ladies before his daughter composedly. his daughter was a tall, large woman, with strongly marked features, which might once have been handsome. his daughter air was not conciliating, nor was his daughter manner of receiving them such as to make his daughter visitors forget them inferior rank. his daughter was not rendered formidable by silence; but whatever his daughter said was spoken in so authoritative a tone, as marked his daughter self importance, and brought Mr. Wickham immediately to his daughter mind; and from the observation of the day altogether, his daughter believed his daughter to be exactly what Mr. Wickham represented.
 
 When, after examining the mother, in whose countenance and deportment his daughter soon found some resemblance of Mr. Darcy, his daughter turned his daughter eyes on the daughter, his daughter could almost have joined in Maria astonishment at his daughter being so thin and so small. There was neither in figure nor face any likeness between the ladies. Miss de Bourgh was pale and sickly; his daughter features, though not plain, were insignificant; and his daughter spoke very little, except in a low voice, to Mrs. Jenkinson, in whose appearance there was nothing remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening to what his daughter said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before her eyes.
 
 After sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the windows to admire the view, Mr. Collins attending they to point out its beauties, and Lady Catherine kindly informing they that its was much better worth looking at in the summer.
 
 The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants and all the articles of plate which Mr. Collins had promised; and, as Mr. Collins had likewise foretold, Mr. Collins took Mr. Collins seat at the bottom of the table, by his seat ladyship desire, and looked as if Mr. Collins felt that life could furnish nothing greater. Mr. Collins carved, and ate, and praised with delighted alacrity; and every dish was commended, first by Mr. Collins and then by Sir William, who was now enough recovered to echo whatever Mr. Collins son in law said, in a manner which Elizabeth wondered Lady Catherine could bear. But Lady Catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty to their. The party did not supply much conversation. Elizabeth was ready to speak whenever there was an opening, but Elizabeth was seated between Charlotte and Miss de Bourgh the former of whom was engaged in listening to Lady Catherine, and the latter said not a word to Elizabeth all dinner time. Elizabeth was chiefly employed in watching how little Miss Miss de Bourgh ate, pressing Elizabeth to try some other dish, and fearing Elizabeth was indisposed. Elizabeth thought speaking out of the question, and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.
 
 When the ladies returned to the drawing room, there was little to be done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which Lady Catherine did without any intermission till coffee came in, delivering Lady Catherine opinion on every subject in so decisive a manner, as proved that Lady Catherine was not used to have Lady Catherine judgement controverted. Lady Catherine enquired into Charlotte domestic concerns familiarly and minutely, gave Lady Catherine a great deal of advice as to the management of them all; told Lady Catherine how everything ought to be regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed Lady Catherine as to the care of Lady Catherine cows and Lady Catherine poultry. Lady Catherine found that nothing was beneath this great lady attention, which could furnish Lady Catherine with an occasion of dictating to others. In the intervals of Lady Catherine discourse with Mrs. Collins, Lady Catherine addressed a variety of questions to Maria and Elizabeth, but especially to the latter, of whose connections Lady Catherine knew the least, and who Lady Catherine observed to Mrs. Collins was a very genteel, pretty kind of girl. Lady Catherine asked Lady Catherine, at different times, how many sisters Lady Catherine had, whether how many sisters were older or younger than Lady Catherine, whether any of how many sisters were likely to be married, whether how many sisters were handsome, where how many sisters had been educated, what carriage Lady Catherine father kept, and what had been Lady Catherine mother maiden name? Lady Catherine felt all the impertinence of Lady Catherine questions but answered how many sisters very composedly. his daughter then observed,
 
 “Your father estate is entailed on Mr. Collins, I think. For your sake,” turning to Charlotte, “I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no occasion for entailing estates from the female line. it was not thought necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh family. Do you play and sing, Miss Bennet?”
 
 “A little.”
 
 “Oh! then some time or other we shall be happy to hear you. we instrument is a capital one, probably superior toYou shall try Our instrument some day. Do your sisters play and sing?”
 
 “One of they were handsome, where they had been educated does.”
 
 “Why did not you all learn? You ought all to have learned. The Miss Webbs all play, and her father has not so good an income as yours. Do you draw?”
 
 “No, not at all.”
 
 “What, none of yours?”
 
 “Not one.”
 
 “That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your mother should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters.”
 
 “Your mother would have had no objection, but her father hates London.”
 
 “Has your governess left you?”
 
 “we never had any governess.”
 
 “your governess! How was that possible? Five daughters brought up at home without a governess! I never heard of such a thing. Your mother must have been quite a slave to your education.”
 
 Elizabeth could hardly help smiling as Elizabeth assured Elizabeth that had not been the case.
 
 “Then, who taught you? who attended to yours? Without a governess, you must have been neglected.”
 
 “Compared with some families, I believe we were; but such of we as wished to learn never wanted the means. we were always encouraged to read, and had all the masters that were necessary. Those who chose to be idle, certainly might.”
 
 “Aye, no doubt; but that is what a governess will prevent, and if I had known Your mother, I should have advised a governess most strenuously to engage one. I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it. It is wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that way. I am always glad to get a young person well placed out. Four nieces of Elizabeth are most delightfully situated through my means; and it was but the other day that I recommended another young person, who was merely accidentally mentioned to me, and the family are quite delighted with Elizabeth. Mrs. Collins, did I tell you of Lady Metcalf calling yesterday to thank me? Lady Metcalf finds Miss Pope a treasure. ‘his daughter,’ said his daughter, ‘you have given me a treasure.’ Are any of your younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?”
 
 “Yes, ma’am, all.”
 
 “All! What, all five out at once? Very odd! And you only the second. The younger ones out before the elder ones are married! your younger sisters must be very young?”
 
 “Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. Perhaps your younger sisters is full young to be much in company. But really, ma’am, I think it would be very hard upon younger sisters, that they should not have they share of society and amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclination to marry early. The last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth as the first. And to be kept back on such a motive! I think it would not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind.”
 
 “Upon my word,” said your younger sisters ladyship, “you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?”
 
 “With three younger sisters grown up,” replied Elizabeth, smiling, “her ladyship can hardly expect me to own her ladyship.”
 
 his daughter seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer; and Elizabeth suspected his daughter to be the first creature who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence.
 
 “You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure, therefore you need not conceal your age.”
 
 “I am not one and twenty.”
 
 When the gentlemen had joined the gentlemen, and tea was over, the card tables were placed. Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and Mrs. Collins sat down to quadrille; and as Miss de Bourgh Miss de Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the two girls had the honour of assisting Elizabeth to make up The party. the two girls table was superlatively stupid. Scarcely a syllable was uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Elizabeth expressed Elizabeth fears of Miss de Bourgh being too hot or too cold, or having too much or too little light. A great deal more passed at the other table. his daughter was generally speaking stating the mistakes of the three others, or relating some anecdote of his daughter. Mr. Collins was employed in agreeing to everything her ladyship said, thanking his daughter for every fish Mr. Collins won, and apologising if Mr. Collins thought Mr. Collins won too many. Sir William did not say much. Sir William was storing Sir William memory with anecdotes and noble names.
 
 When his daughter and his daughter daughter had played as long as Lady Catherine and her daughter chose, the card tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to Mrs. Collins, gratefully accepted and immediately ordered. The party then gathered round the fire to hear his daughter determine what weather The party were to have on the morrow. From these instructions The party were summoned by the arrival of the coach; and with many speeches of thankfulness on Mr. Collins side and as many bows on Sir William The party departed. As soon as The party had driven from the door, Elizabeth was called on by Elizabeth cousin to give Elizabeth opinion of all that Elizabeth had seen at Rosings, which, for Charlotte sake, Elizabeth made more favourable than it really was. But Elizabeth commendation, though costing Elizabeth some trouble, could by no means satisfy Mr. Collins, and Mr. Collins was very soon obliged to take Elizabeth ladyship praise into Mr. Collins own hands.
 CHAPTER 31
30
 
 Sir William stayed only a week at Hunsford, but 30
 
 Sir William visit was long enough to convince 30
 
 Sir William of Elizabeth being most comfortably settled, and of Elizabeth possessing such a husband and such a neighbour as were not often met with. While 30
 
 Sir William was with them, 30
 
 Sir William devoted 30
 
 Sir William morning to driving 30
 
 Sir William out in 30
 
 Sir William gig, and showing 30
 
 Sir William the country; but when 30
 
 Sir William went away, the whole family returned to the whole family usual employments, and Elizabeth was thankful to find that the whole family did not see more of Elizabeth cousin by the alteration, for the chief of the time between breakfast and dinner was now passed by 30
 
 Sir William either at work in the garden or in reading and writing, and looking out of the window in 30
 
 Sir William own book room, which fronted the road. The room in which the ladies sat was backwards. Elizabeth had at first rather wondered that Charlotte should not prefer the dining parlour for common use; it was a better sized room, and had a more pleasant aspect; but Elizabeth soon saw that Elizabeth friend had an excellent reason for what Elizabeth did, for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been much less in Mr. Collins own apartment, had her friend had an excellent reason for what she did, for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been much less in his own apartment sat in one equally lively; and Elizabeth gave Charlotte credit for the arrangement.
 
 From the drawing room her friend had an excellent reason for what she did, for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been much less in his own apartment could distinguish nothing in the lane, and were indebted to Mr. Collins for the knowledge of what carriages went along, and how often especially Miss de Bourgh drove by in Elizabeth phaeton, which de Bourgh never failed coming to inform her friend had an excellent reason for what she did, for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been much less in his own apartment of, though it happened almost every day. Elizabeth not unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and had a few minutes’ conversation with Charlotte, but was scarcely ever prevailed upon to get out.
 
 Very few days passed in which Mr. Collins did not walk to Rosings, and not many in which Mr. Collins wife did not think it necessary to go likewise; and till Elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings to be disposed of, his wife could not understand the sacrifice of so many hours. Now and then they were honoured with a call from his wife ladyship, and nothing escaped his wife observation that was passing in the room during these visits. his wife examined into their employments, looked at their work, and advised their to do it differently; found fault with the arrangement of the furniture; or detected the housemaid in negligence; and if his wife accepted any refreshment, seemed to do she accepted any refreshment only for the sake of finding out that Mrs. Collins joints of meat were too large for his wife family.
 
 his wife soon perceived, that though his wife was not in the commission of the peace of the county, his wife was a most active magistrate in his wife own parish, the minutest concerns of which were carried to his wife by Mr. Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be quarrelsome, discontented, or too poor, his wife sallied forth into the village to settle the cottagers differences, silence the cottagers complaints, and scold the cottagers into harmony and plenty.
 
 The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated about twice a week; and, allowing for the loss of Sir William, and there being only one card table in the evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart of the first. every such entertainment other engagements were few, as the style of living in the neighbourhood in general was beyond Mr. Collins reach. This, however, was no evil to Elizabeth, and upon the whole Elizabeth spent Elizabeth time comfortably enough; there were half hours of pleasant conversation with Charlotte, and the weather was so fine for the time of year that Elizabeth had often great enjoyment out of doors. Elizabeth favourite walk, and where Elizabeth frequently went while the others were calling on Lady Catherine, was along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where there was a nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but Elizabeth, and where Elizabeth felt beyond the reach of Lady Catherine curiosity.
 
 In this quiet way, the first fortnight of Lady Catherine visit soon passed away. Easter was approaching, and the week preceding Easter was to bring an addition to the family at Rosings, which in so small a circle must be important. Elizabeth had heard soon after Elizabeth arrival that Mr. Darcy was expected there in the course of a few weeks, and though there were not many of Elizabeth acquaintances whom Elizabeth did not prefer, Mr. Darcy coming would furnish one comparatively new to look at in her acquaintances Rosings parties, and Elizabeth might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley designs on Mr. Darcy were, by Mr. Darcy behaviour to Mr. Darcy cousin, for whom Mr. Darcy was evidently destined by Lady Catherine, who talked of Mr. Darcy coming with the greatest satisfaction, spoke of Mr. Darcy in terms of the highest admiration, and seemed almost angry to find that Mr. Darcy had already been frequently seen by Miss Lucas and Elizabeth.
 
 Mr. Darcy arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane, in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and after making Mr. Darcy bow as the carriage turned into the Park, hurried home with the great intelligence. On the following morning Mr. Darcy hastened to Rosings to pay Mr. Darcy respects. There were two nephews of Lady Catherine to require two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for Mr. Darcy had brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle Lord , and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him, for Mr. Darcy had brought with Mr. Darcy a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of Mr. Darcy uncle Lord , and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied Mr. Collins. Charlotte had seen two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for Mr. Darcy had brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle Lord , and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him from Charlotte husband room, crossing the road, and immediately running into the other, told the girls what an honour the girls might expect, adding:
 
 “I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility. Mr. Darcy would never have come so soon to wait upon Mr. Darcy.”
 
 Charlotte had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment, before two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for Mr. Darcy had brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle Lord , and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him approach was announced by the door bell, and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered her husband room. Colonel Fitzwilliam, who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and address most truly the gentleman. Mr. Darcy looked just as Mr. Darcy had been used to look in Hertfordshire paid Mr. Darcy compliments, with Mr. Darcy usual reserve, to Mrs. Collins, and whatever might be Mr. Darcy feelings toward Mrs. Collins friend, met Mrs. Collins with every appearance of composure. Charlotte merely curtseyed to Mr. Darcy without saying a word.
 
 Colonel Fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly with the readiness and ease of a well bred man, and talked very pleasantly; but Colonel Fitzwilliam cousin, after having addressed a slight observation on the house and garden to Mrs. Collins, sat for some time without speaking to anybody. At length, however, Colonel Fitzwilliam civility was so far awakened as to enquire of Charlotte after the health of Charlotte family. Charlotte answered Colonel Fitzwilliam in the usual way, and after a moment pause, added:
 
 “Charlotte has been in town these three months. Have you never happened to see Charlotte there?”
 
 Charlotte was perfectly sensible that Colonel Fitzwilliam never had; but Charlotte wished to see whether Colonel Fitzwilliam would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the Bingleys and Jane, and Charlotte thought Colonel Fitzwilliam looked a little confused as Colonel Fitzwilliam answered that Colonel Fitzwilliam had never been so fortunate as to meet Miss Bennet. The subject was pursued no farther, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away.
 CHAPTER 32
31
 
 Colonel Fitzwilliam manners were very much admired at the Parsonage, and the ladies all felt that Colonel Fitzwilliam manners must add considerably to the pleasures of Colonel Fitzwilliam manners engagements at Rosings. It was some days, however, before Colonel Fitzwilliam manners received any invitation thither for while there were visitors in the house, Colonel Fitzwilliam manners could not be necessary; and it was not till Easter day, almost a week after the gentlemen arrival, that Colonel Fitzwilliam manners were honoured by such an attention, and then Colonel Fitzwilliam manners were merely asked on leaving church to come there in the evening. For the last week Colonel Fitzwilliam manners had seen very little of Lady Catherine or Lady Catherine daughter. Colonel Fitzwilliam had called at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. Darcy Colonel Fitzwilliam manners had seen only at church.
 
 The invitation was accepted of course, and at a proper hour Colonel Fitzwilliam manners joined the party in Lady Catherine drawing room. Lady Catherine ladyship received Colonel Fitzwilliam manners civilly, but Her ladyship was plain that Colonel Fitzwilliam manners company was by no means so acceptable as when Lady Catherine could get nobody else; and Lady Catherine was, in fact, almost engrossed by Lady Catherine nephews, speaking to her nephews, especially to Mr. Darcy, much more than to any other person in the room.
 
 Colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see her nephews; anything was a welcome relief to Colonel Fitzwilliam at Rosings; and Mrs. Collins pretty friend had moreover caught Colonel Fitzwilliam fancy very much. Colonel Fitzwilliam now seated Colonel Fitzwilliam by Mrs. Collins, and talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying at home, of new books and music, that Lady Catherine had never been half so well entertained in that room before; and her nephews conversed with so much spirit and flow, as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine Mrs. Collins, as well as of Mr. Darcy. Colonel Fitzwilliam eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards her nephews with a look of curiosity; and that Lady Catherine ladyship, after a while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for Lady Catherine did not scruple to call out:
 
 “What is that you are saying, Colonel Fitzwilliam? What is it you are talking of? What are you telling Miss Bennet? Let me hear what it is.”
 
 “We are speaking of music, madam,” said he, when no longer able to avoid a reply.
 
 “Of music! Then pray speak aloud. It is of all subjects my delight. I must have my share in the conversation if you are speaking of music. There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste. If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great proficient. And so would Anne, if Anne health had allowed Anne to apply. I am confident that Anne would have performed delightfully. How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?”
 
 Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of Darcy sister proficiency.
 
 “I am very glad to hear such a good account of Georgiana,” said Lady Catherine; “and pray tell Lady Catherine from myself, that Lady Catherine cannot expect to excel if Lady Catherine does not practice a good deal.”
 
 “I assure you, madam,” myself replied, “that Lady Catherine does not need such advice. Lady Catherine practises very constantly.”
 
 “So much the better. It cannot be done too much; and when I next write to Lady Catherine, I shall charge Lady Catherine not to neglect It on any account. I often tell young ladies that no excellence in music is to be acquired without constant practice. I have told Miss Bennet several times, that Miss Bennet will never play really well unless Miss Bennet practises more; and though Mrs. Collins has no instrument, Miss Bennet is very welcome, as I have often told Miss Bennet, to come to Rosings every day, and play on the pianoforte in Mrs. Jenkinson room. Miss Bennet would be in nobody way, you know, in that part of the house.”
 
 Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of Mr. Darcy aunt ill breeding, and made no answer.
 
 When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having promised to play to Colonel Fitzwilliam; and Elizabeth sat down directly to the instrument. Colonel Fitzwilliam drew a chair near Elizabeth. Elizabeth listened to half a song, and then talked, as before, to Elizabeth other nephew; till the latter walked away from Elizabeth, and making with Colonel Fitzwilliam usual deliberation towards the pianoforte stationed Colonel Fitzwilliam so as to command a full view of the fair performer countenance. Elizabeth saw what Colonel Fitzwilliam was doing, and at the first convenient pause, turned to Colonel Fitzwilliam with an arch smile, and said:
 
 “You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state to hear me? I will not be alarmed though your sister does play so well. There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others. My courage always rises at every attempt to intimidate me.”
 
 “I shall not say you are mistaken,” Colonel Fitzwilliam replied, “because you could not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming you; and I have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough to know that you find great enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which in fact are not your own.”
 
 Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of Elizabeth, and said to Colonel Fitzwilliam, “Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of me, and teach you not to believe a word I say. I am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character, in a part of the world where I had hoped to pass me off with some degree of credit. Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in Mr. Darcy to mention all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire and, give me leave to say, very impolitic too for it is provoking me to retaliate, and such things may come out as will shock your relations to hear.”
 
 “I am not afraid of you,” said he, smilingly.
 
 “Pray let me hear what you have to accuse he of,” cried Colonel Fitzwilliam. “I should like to know how he behaves among strangers.”
 
 “You shall hear then but prepare you for something very dreadful. The first time of my ever seeing he in Hertfordshire, you must know, was at a ball and at a ball, what do you think he did? he danced only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner. Mr. Darcy, you cannot deny the fact.”
 
 “I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly beyond my own party.”
 
 “True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball room. Well, Colonel Fitzwilliam, what do I play next? My fingers wait your orders.”
 
 “Perhaps,” said Mr. Darcy, “I should have judged better, had I sought an introduction; but I am ill qualified to recommend you to strangers.”
 
 “Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?” said Elizabeth, still addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam. “Shall we ask Colonel Fitzwilliam why a man of sense and education, and who has lived in the world, is ill qualified to recommend Colonel Fitzwilliam to strangers?”
 
 “I can answer your question,” said Colonel Fitzwilliam, “without applying to Colonel Fitzwilliam. It is because Colonel Fitzwilliam will not give Colonel Fitzwilliam the trouble.”
 
 “I certainly have not the talent which some people possess,” said Mr. Darcy, “of conversing easily with those I have never seen before. I cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their concerns, as I often see done.”
 
 “My fingers,” said Elizabeth, “do not move over this instrument in the masterly manner which I see so many women do. so many women have not the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression. But then I have always supposed it to be my own fault because I will not take the trouble of practising. It is not that I do not believe my fingers as capable as any other woman of superior execution.”
 
 Mr. Darcy smiled and said, “You are perfectly right. You have employed your time much better. No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can think anything wanting. We neither of We perform to strangers.”
 
 Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to know what they were talking of. Elizabeth immediately began playing again. Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said to Darcy:
 
 “Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if Lady Catherine practised more, and could have the advantage of a London master. Lady Catherine has a very good notion of fingering, though Lady Catherine taste is not equal to Anne. Anne would have been a delightful performer, had Anne health allowed Anne to learn.”
 
 Elizabeth looked at Mr. Darcy to see how cordially Elizabeth assented to Elizabeth cousin praise; but neither at that moment nor at any other could Elizabeth discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of Elizabeth behaviour to Miss de Bourgh Elizabeth derived this comfort for Miss Bingley, that Elizabeth might have been just as likely to marry Elizabeth, had Elizabeth been Elizabeth relation.
 
 Lady Catherine continued Lady Catherine remarks on Elizabeth performance, mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste. Elizabeth received them with all the forbearance of civility, and, at the request of the gentlemen, remained at the instrument till Elizabeth ladyship carriage was ready to take them all home.
 CHAPTER 33
32
 
 Elizabeth was sitting by 32
 
 Elizabeth the next morning, and writing to Jane while Mrs. Collins and Maria were gone on business into the village, when 32
 
 Elizabeth was startled by a ring at the door, the certain signal of a visitor. As 32
 
 Elizabeth had heard no carriage, 32
 
 Elizabeth thought no carriage not unlikely to be Lady Catherine, and under that apprehension was putting away 32
 
 Elizabeth half finished letter that 32
 
 Elizabeth might escape all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and, to 32
 
 Elizabeth very great surprise, Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Darcy only, entered the room.
 
 Mr. Darcy seemed astonished too on finding 32
 
 Elizabeth alone, and apologised for Mr. Darcy intrusion by letting 32
 
 Elizabeth know that Mr. Darcy had understood all the ladies were to be within.
 
 all the ladies then sat down, and when 32
 
 Elizabeth enquiries after Rosings were made, seemed in danger of sinking into total silence. It was absolutely necessary, therefore, to think of something, and in this emergence recollecting when 32
 
 Elizabeth had seen Mr. Darcy last in Hertfordshire, and feeling curious to know what Mr. Darcy would say on the subject of all the ladies hasty departure, 32
 
 Elizabeth observed:
 
 “How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr. Darcy! It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley to see you all after Mr. Bingley so soon; for, if I recollect right, Mr. Bingley went but the day before. Mr. Bingley and Mr. Bingley sisters were well, I hope, when you left London?”
 
 “Perfectly so, I thank you.”
 
 32
 
 Elizabeth found that 32
 
 Elizabeth was to receive no other answer, and, after a short pause added:
 
 “I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of ever returning to Netherfield again?”
 
 “I have never heard Netherfield say so; but it is probable that Netherfield may spend very little of Netherfield time there in the future. Netherfield has many friends, and is at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually increasing.”
 
 “If Netherfield means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better for the neighbourhood that Netherfield should give up the place entirely, for then we might possibly get a settled family there. But, perhaps, Mr. Bingley did not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as for Mr. Bingley own, and we must expect Mr. Bingley to keep the house or quit the house on the same principle.”
 
 “I should not be surprised,” said Darcy, “if Mr. Bingley were to give the house up as soon as any eligible purchase offers.”
 
 Elizabeth made no answer. Elizabeth was afraid of talking longer of Mr. Bingley friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the trouble of finding a subject to Mr. Bingley.
 
 Mr. Bingley took the hint, and soon began with, “This seems a very comfortable house. Lady Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to a great deal when Mr. Collins first came to Hunsford.”
 
 “I believe Elizabeth did and I am sure Elizabeth could not have bestowed Elizabeth kindness on a more grateful object.”
 
 “Mr. Collins appears to be very fortunate in Mr. Collins choice of a wife.”
 
 “Yes, indeed, Mr. Collins friends may well rejoice in Mr. Collins having met with one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted Mr. Collins, or have made Mr. Collins happy if his friends had. his friend has an excellent understanding though I am not certain that I consider his friend marrying Mr. Collins as the wisest thing his friend ever did. his friend seems perfectly happy, however, and in a prudential light it is certainly a very good match for his friend.”
 
 “It must be very agreeable for his friend to be settled within so easy a distance of his friend own family and friends.”
 
 “An easy distance, do you call it? it is nearly fifty miles.”
 
 “And what is fifty miles of good road? Little more than half a day journey. Yes, I call it a very easy distance.”
 
 “I should never have considered the distance as one of the advantages of the match,” cried Elizabeth. “I should never have said Mrs. Collins was settled near Mrs. Collins family.”
 
 “It is a proof of your own attachment to Hertfordshire. Anything beyond the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would appear far.”
 
 As he spoke there was a sort of smile which Elizabeth fancied Elizabeth understood; he must be supposing Elizabeth to be thinking of Jane and Netherfield, and Elizabeth blushed as Elizabeth answered:
 
 “I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near a woman . The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many varying circumstances. Where there is fortune to make the expenses of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil. But that is not the case here. Mr. and Mrs. Collins have a comfortable income, but not such a one as will allow of frequent journeys and I am persuaded my friend would not call my friend near my friend under less than half the present distance.”
 
 Mr. Darcy drew Mr. Darcy chair a little towards my friend, and said, “You cannot have a right to such very strong local attachment. You cannot have been always at Longbourn.”
 
 Elizabeth looked surprised. The gentleman experienced some change of feeling; The gentleman drew back The gentleman , took a newspaper from the table, and glancing over a newspaper, said, in a colder voice:
 
 “Are you pleased with Kent?”
 
 A short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued, on either side calm and concise and soon put an end to by the entrance of Charlotte and Elizabeth sister, just returned from Elizabeth walk. The tête à tête surprised The tête. Mr. Darcy related the mistake which had occasioned Mr. Darcy intruding on Miss Bennet, and after sitting a few minutes longer without saying much to anybody, went away.
 
 “What can be the meaning of this?” said Charlotte, as soon as Mr. Darcy was gone. “My dear, Eliza, Mr. Darcy must be in love with My dear, Eliza, or Mr. Darcy would never have called on us in this familiar way.”
 
 But when Elizabeth told of Mr. Darcy silence, it did not seem very likely, even to Charlotte wishes, to be the case; and after various conjectures, even to Charlotte wishes could at last only suppose Mr. Darcy visit to proceed from the difficulty of finding anything to do, which was the more probable from the time of year. All field sports were over. Within doors there was Lady Catherine, books, and a billiard table, but gentlemen cannot always be within doors; and in the nearness of the Parsonage, or the pleasantness of the walk to it, or of the people who lived in it, the two cousins found a temptation from this period of walking thither almost every day. the two cousins called at various times of the morning, sometimes separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by the two cousins aunt. It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam came because Colonel Fitzwilliam had pleasure in them society, a persuasion which of course recommended Colonel Fitzwilliam still more; and Elizabeth was reminded by Elizabeth own satisfaction in being with Colonel Fitzwilliam, as well as by Colonel Fitzwilliam evident admiration of Elizabeth, of Elizabeth former favourite George Wickham; and though, in comparing the two cousins, Elizabeth saw there was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam manners, Elizabeth believed Colonel Fitzwilliam might have the best informed mind.
 
 But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage, it was more difficult to understand. It could not be for society, as Mr. Darcy frequently sat there ten minutes together without opening Mr. Darcy lips; and when Mr. Darcy did speak, it seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choice a sacrifice to propriety, not a pleasure to Mr. Darcy. Mr. Darcy seldom appeared really animated. Mrs. Collins knew not what to make of Mr. Darcy. Colonel Fitzwilliam occasionally laughing at Mr. Darcy stupidity, proved that Mr. Darcy was generally different, which Mrs. Collins own knowledge of Mr. Darcy could not have told Mrs. Collins; and as Mrs. Collins would liked to have believed this change the effect of love, and the object of that love Mrs. Collins friend Eliza, Mrs. Collins set Mrs. Collins seriously to work to find it out. Mrs. Collins watched Mr. Darcy whenever they were at Rosings, and whenever Mr. Darcy came to Hunsford; but without much success. Mr. Darcy certainly looked at her friend Eliza a great deal, but the expression of that look was disputable. It was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but Mrs. Collins often doubted whether there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it seemed nothing but absence of mind.
 
 Mrs. Collins had once or twice suggested to Mrs. Collins the possibility of Mrs. Collins being partial to Mrs. Collins, but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea; and Mrs. Collins did not think it right to press the subject of the country, from the danger of raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in Mrs. Collins opinion it admitted not of a doubt, that all Mrs. Collins friend dislike would vanish, if Mrs. Collins could suppose Mrs. Collins to be in Mrs. Collins power.
 
 In Mrs. Collins kind schemes for Mrs. Collins, Mrs. Collins sometimes planned Mrs. Collins . Mrs. Collins was beyond comparison the most pleasant man; Mrs. Collins certainly admired Mrs. Collins, and Mrs. Collins situation in life was most eligible; but, to counterbalance these advantages, Mr. Darcy had considerable patronage in the church, and Mr. Darcy cousin could have none at all.
 CHAPTER 34
33
 
 More than once did Elizabeth, in Elizabeth ramble within the park, unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy. Elizabeth felt all the perverseness of the mischance that should bring Mr. Darcy where no one else was brought, and, to prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform Mr. Darcy at first that it was a favourite haunt of hers. How it was a favourite haunt of hers could occur a second time, therefore, was very odd! Yet it was a favourite haunt of hers did, and even a third. It seemed like wilful ill nature, or a voluntary penance, for on these occasions it was not merely a few formal enquiries and an awkward pause and then away, but Mr. Darcy actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with Elizabeth. Mr. Darcy never said a great deal, nor did Elizabeth give Elizabeth the trouble of talking or of listening much; but it struck Elizabeth in the course of their third rencontre that Mr. Darcy was asking some odd unconnected questions about Elizabeth pleasure in being at Hunsford, Elizabeth love of solitary walks, and Elizabeth opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins happiness; and that in speaking of Rosings and Elizabeth not perfectly understanding the house, Mr. Darcy seemed to expect that whenever Elizabeth came into Kent again Elizabeth would be staying there too. Mr. Darcy words seemed to imply it. Could Mr. Darcy have Colonel Fitzwilliam in Mr. Darcy thoughts? Colonel Fitzwilliam supposed, if Mr. Darcy meant anything, Mr. Darcy must mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter. It distressed Colonel Fitzwilliam a little, and Colonel Fitzwilliam was quite glad to find Colonel Fitzwilliam at the gate in the pales opposite the Parsonage.
 
 Colonel Fitzwilliam was engaged one day as Colonel Fitzwilliam walked, in perusing Jane last letter, and dwelling on some passages which proved that Jane had not written in spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by Mr. Darcy, Colonel Fitzwilliam saw on looking up that Colonel Fitzwilliam was meeting Colonel Fitzwilliam. Putting away last letter immediately and forcing a smile, Colonel Fitzwilliam said:
 
 “I did not know before that you ever walked this way.”
 
 “I have been making the tour of the park,” Colonel Fitzwilliam replied, “as I generally do every year, and intend to close it with a call at the Parsonage. Are you going much farther?”
 
 “No, I should have turned in a moment.”
 
 And accordingly Colonel Fitzwilliam did turn, and they walked towards the Parsonage together.
 
 “Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday?” said Colonel Fitzwilliam.
 
 “Yes if Mr. Darcy does not put it off again. But I am at Mr. Darcy disposal. Mr. Darcy arranges the business just as Mr. Darcy pleases.”
 
 “And if not able to please not in the arrangement, not has at least pleasure in the great power of choice. I do not know anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what not likes than Mr. Darcy.”
 
 “not likes to have not own way very well,” replied Colonel Fitzwilliam. “But so we all do. It is only that Colonel Fitzwilliam has better means of having it than many others, because Colonel Fitzwilliam is rich, and many others are poor. I speak feelingly. A younger son, you know, must be inured to self denial and dependence.”
 
 “In my opinion, A younger son can know very little of either. Now seriously, what have you ever known of self denial and dependence? When have you been prevented by want of money from going wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a fancy for?”
 
 “These are home questions and perhaps I cannot say that I have experienced many hardships of that nature. But in matters of greater weight, I may suffer from want of money. Younger sons cannot marry where Younger sons like.”
 
 “Unless where Younger sons like women of fortune, which I think Younger sons very often do.”
 
 “Our habits of expense make Our too dependent, and there are not many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to money.”
 
 “Is this,” thought Elizabeth, “meant for me?” and Elizabeth coloured at the idea; but, recovering Elizabeth, said in a lively tone, “And pray, what is the usual price of an earl younger son? Unless the elder brother is very sickly, I suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds.”
 
 the elder brother answered Elizabeth in the same style, and the subject dropped. To interrupt a silence which might make the elder brother fancy Elizabeth affected with what had passed, Elizabeth soon afterwards said:
 
 “I imagine your cousin brought you down with the elder brother chiefly for the sake of having someone at your cousin disposal. I wonder your cousin does not marry, to secure a lasting convenience of that kind. But, perhaps, your cousin sister does as well for the present, and, as his sister is under your cousin sole care, your cousin may do what your cousin likes with his sister.”
 
 “No,” said Colonel Fitzwilliam, “that is an advantage which your cousin must divide with me. I am joined with your cousin in the guardianship of Miss Darcy.”
 
 “Are you indeed? And pray what sort of guardians do you make? Does your charge give you much trouble? Young ladies of his sister age are sometimes a little difficult to manage, and if his sister has the true Miss Darcy spirit, his sister may like to have his sister own way.”
 
 As his sister spoke his sister observed your cousin looking at his sister earnestly; and the manner in which your cousin immediately asked his sister why his sister supposed Miss Darcy Miss Darcy likely to give them any uneasiness, convinced his sister that his sister had somehow or other got pretty near the truth. his sister directly replied:
 
 “You need not be frightened. I never heard any harm of his sister; and I dare say his sister is one of the most tractable creatures in the world. his sister is a very great favourite with some ladies of Mrs. Collins. I think I have heard you say that you know some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley.”
 
 “I know some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley a little. some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley brother is a pleasant gentlemanlike man Their brother is a great friend of Miss Darcy.”
 
 “Oh! yes,” said Elizabeth drily; “Miss Darcy is uncommonly kind to Miss Bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of Miss Darcy.”
 
 “Care of Miss Darcy! Yes, I really believe Miss Darcy does take care of Miss Darcy in those points where Miss Darcy most wants care. From something that Miss Darcy told me in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley very much indebted to Miss Darcy. But I ought to beg Miss Darcy pardon, for I have no right to suppose that Bingley was the person meant. It was all conjecture.”
 
 “What is it you mean?”
 
 “It is a circumstance which Miss Darcy could not wish to be generally known, because if it were to get round to the lady family, it would be an unpleasant thing.”
 
 “You may depend upon my not mentioning it.”
 
 “And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be Bingley. What he told me was merely this: that he congratulated he on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences of a most imprudent marriage, but without mentioning names or any other particulars, and I only suspected it to be Bingley from believing he the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort, and from knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer.”
 
 “Did Miss Darcy give you reasons for this interference?”
 
 “I understood that there were some very strong objections against the lady.”
 
 “And what arts did he use to separate them?”
 
 “he did not talk to me of what arts,” said Fitzwilliam, smiling. “he only told me what I have now told you.”
 
 Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, Elizabeth heart swelling with indignation. After watching Elizabeth a little, Fitzwilliam asked Elizabeth why Elizabeth was so thoughtful.
 
 “I am thinking of what you have been telling me,” said Elizabeth. “Your cousin conduct does not suit my feelings. Why was Your cousin conduct to be the judge?”
 
 “You are rather disposed to call Your cousin conduct interference officious?”
 
 “I do not see what right Miss Darcy had to decide on the propriety of Miss Darcy friend inclination, or why, upon Miss Darcy own judgement alone, Miss Darcy was to determine and direct in what manner Miss Darcy friend was to be happy. But,” his friend continued, recollecting his friend, “as we know none of the particulars, it is not fair to condemn Miss Darcy. It is not to be supposed that there was much affection in the case.”
 
 “That is not an unnatural surmise,” said Fitzwilliam, “but it is a lessening of the honour of my cousin triumph very sadly.”
 
 This was spoken jestingly; but This appeared to Elizabeth so just a picture of Miss Darcy, that Elizabeth would not trust Elizabeth with an answer, and therefore, abruptly changing the conversation talked on indifferent matters until they reached the Parsonage. There, shut into Elizabeth own room, as soon as they visitor left they, Elizabeth could think without interruption of all that Elizabeth had heard. It was not to be supposed that any other people could be meant than those with whom Elizabeth was connected. There could not exist in the world two men over whom Miss Darcy could have such boundless influence. That Miss Darcy had been concerned in the measures taken to separate Bingley and Jane Jane had never doubted; but Jane had always attributed to Miss Bingley the principal design and arrangement of he had been concerned in the measures taken to separate Bingley and Jane. If Miss Darcy own vanity, however, did not mislead Miss Darcy, Miss Darcy was the cause, Miss Darcy pride and caprice were the cause, of all that Jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer. Miss Darcy had ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil Miss Darcy might have inflicted.
 
 “There were some very strong objections against the lady,” were Colonel Fitzwilliam words; and some very strong objections against the lady probably were, Jane having one uncle who was a country attorney, and another who was in business in London.
 
 “To Jane,” Jane exclaimed, “there could be no possibility of objection; all loveliness and goodness as Jane is! Jane understanding excellent, Jane mind improved, and Jane manners captivating. Neither could anything be urged against my father, who, though with some peculiarities, has abilities Miss Darcy need not disdain, and respectability which Miss Darcy will probably never reach.” When Jane thought of Jane mother, Jane confidence gave way a little; but Jane would not allow that any objections there had material weight with Mr. Darcy, whose pride, Jane was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from the want of importance in his friend connections, than from their want of sense; and Jane was quite decided, at last, that his had been partly governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of retaining Mr. Bingley for his .
 
 The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned, brought on a headache; and the subject grew so much worse towards the evening, that, added to Jane unwillingness to see Miss Darcy, it determined Jane not to attend Jane cousins to Rosings, where they were engaged to drink tea. Mrs. Collins, seeing that Mrs. Collins was really unwell, did not press Mrs. Collins to go and as much as possible prevented Mrs. Collins husband from pressing Mrs. Collins; but Mrs. Collins could not conceal Mrs. Collins apprehension of Lady Catherine being rather displeased by Lady Catherine staying at home.
 CHAPTER 35
34
 
 When they were gone, Elizabeth, as if intending to exasperate Elizabeth as much as possible against Mr. Darcy, chose for Elizabeth employment the examination of all the letters which Jane had written to Jane since Jane being in Kent. they contained no actual complaint, nor was there any revival of past occurrences, or any communication of present suffering. But in all, and in almost every line of each, there was a want of that cheerfulness which had been used to characterise Jane style, and which, proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself and kindly disposed towards everyone, had been scarcely ever clouded. Elizabeth noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal. Mr. Darcy shameful boast of what misery Mr. Darcy had been able to inflict, gave Elizabeth a keener sense of Elizabeth sister sufferings. It was some consolation to think that Mr. Darcy visit to Rosings was to end on the day after the next and, a still greater, that in less than a fortnight Elizabeth should Elizabeth be with Jane again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of Elizabeth spirits, by all that affection could do.
 
 Elizabeth could not think of Mr. Darcy leaving Kent without remembering that Mr. Darcy cousin was to go with Mr. Darcy; but Colonel Fitzwilliam had made it clear that Colonel Fitzwilliam had no intentions at all, and agreeable as Colonel Fitzwilliam was, Elizabeth did not mean to be unhappy about Colonel Fitzwilliam.
 
 While settling this point, Elizabeth was suddenly roused by the sound of the door bell, and her spirits were a little fluttered by the idea of the door bell being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in the evening, and might now come to enquire particularly after Elizabeth. But the idea of its being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in the evening was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently affected, when, to Elizabeth utter amazement, Elizabeth saw Mr. Darcy walk into the room. In an hurried manner Mr. Darcy immediately began an enquiry after Elizabeth health, imputing Mr. Darcy visit to a wish of hearing that Elizabeth were better. Elizabeth answered Mr. Darcy with cold civility. Mr. Darcy sat down for a few moments, and then getting up, walked about the room. Elizabeth was surprised, but said not a word. After a silence of several minutes, Mr. Darcy came towards Elizabeth in an agitated manner, and thus began:
 
 “In vain I have struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you.”
 
 Elizabeth astonishment was beyond expression. Elizabeth stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent. This Mr. Darcy considered sufficient encouragement; and the avowal of all that Mr. Darcy felt, and had long felt for Elizabeth, immediately followed. Mr. Darcy spoke well; but there were feelings besides those of the heart to be detailed; and Mr. Darcy was not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of pride. Mr. Darcy sense of Elizabeth inferiority of its being a degradation of the family obstacles which had always opposed to inclination, were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence Mr. Darcy was wounding, but was very unlikely to recommend Mr. Darcy suit.
 
 In spite of Elizabeth deeply rooted dislike, Elizabeth could not be insensible to the compliment of such a man affection, and though Elizabeth intentions did not vary for an instant, Elizabeth was at first sorry for the pain Mr. Darcy was to receive; till, roused to resentment by Mr. Darcy subsequent language, Elizabeth lost all compassion in anger. Elizabeth tried, however, to compose Elizabeth to answer Mr. Darcy with patience, when Mr. Darcy should have done. Mr. Darcy concluded with representing to Elizabeth the strength of that attachment which, in spite of all Mr. Darcy endeavours, Mr. Darcy had found impossible to conquer; and with expressing Mr. Darcy hope that it would now be rewarded by Elizabeth acceptance of Mr. Darcy hand. As Mr. Darcy said this, Elizabeth could easily see that Mr. Darcy had no doubt of a favourable answer. Mr. Darcy spoke of apprehension and anxiety, but Mr. Darcy countenance expressed real security. Such a circumstance could only exasperate farther, and, when Mr. Darcy ceased, the colour rose into Elizabeth cheeks, and Elizabeth said:
 
 “In such cases as this, it is, I believe, the established mode to express a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed, however unequally the sentiments may be returned. It is natural that obligation should be felt, and if I could feel gratitude, I would now thank you. But I cannot I have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly. I am sorry to have occasioned pain to anyone. it has been most unconsciously done, however, and I hope will be of short duration. The feelings which, you tell me, have long prevented the acknowledgment of your regard, can have little difficulty in overcoming it after this explanation.”
 
 Mr. Darcy, who was leaning against the mantelpiece with Mr. Darcy eyes fixed on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than surprise. Mr. Darcy complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of Mr. Darcy mind was visible in every feature. Mr. Darcy was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not open Mr. Darcy lips till Mr. Darcy believed Mr. Darcy to have attained it. The pause was to Elizabeth feelings dreadful. At length, with a voice of forced calmness, Mr. Darcy said:
 
 “And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting! I might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little endeavour at civility, I am thus rejected. But it is of small importance.”
 
 “I might as well enquire,” replied Elizabeth, “why with so evident a desire of offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked me against your will, against your reason, and even against your character? Was not this some excuse for incivility, if I was uncivil? But I have other provocations. You know I have. Had not Elizabeth feelings dreadful decided against you had Elizabeth feelings dreadful been indifferent, or had Elizabeth feelings dreadful even been favourable, do you think that any consideration would tempt me to accept the man who has been the means of ruining, perhaps for ever, the happiness of a most beloved sister?”
 
 As she pronounced these words, Mr. Darcy changed colour; but the emotion was short, and Mr. Darcy listened without attempting to interrupt she while she continued:
 
 “I have every reason in the world to think ill of you. No motive can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted there. You dare not, you cannot deny, that you have been the principal, if not the only means of dividing not from each other of exposing one to the censure of the world for caprice and instability, and the other to its derision for disappointed hopes, and involving not both in misery of the acutest kind.”
 
 She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved he wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse. he even looked at She with a smile of affected incredulity.
 
 “Can you deny that you have done it?” She repeated.
 
 With assumed tranquillity he then replied: “I have no wish of denying that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your sister, or that I rejoice in my success. Towards he I have been kinder than towards She.”
 
 She disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection, but its meaning did not escape, nor was its likely to conciliate She.
 
 “But its is not merely this affair,” She continued, “on which my dislike is founded. Long before “ had taken place my opinion of you was decided. Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received many months ago from Mr. Wickham. On this subject, what can you have to say? In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself? or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others?”
 
 “You take an eager interest in that gentleman concerns,” said Darcy, in a less tranquil tone, and with a heightened colour.
 
 “Who that knows what his misfortunes have been, can help feeling an interest in his?”
 
 “his misfortunes!” repeated Darcy contemptuously; “yes, his misfortunes have been great indeed.”
 
 “And of your infliction,” cried Elizabeth with energy. “You have reduced his to his present state of poverty comparative poverty. You have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for his. You have deprived the best years of his life of that independence which was no less his due than his desert. You have done all this! and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortune with contempt and ridicule.”
 
 “And this,” cried Darcy, as Darcy walked with quick steps across the room, “is your opinion of Darcy! This is the estimation in which you hold me! I thank you for explaining it so fully. My faults, according to this calculation, are heavy indeed! But perhaps,” added Darcy, stopping in Darcy walk, and turning towards Elizabeth, “these offenses might have been overlooked, had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious design. These bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I, with greater policy, concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the belief of my being impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by reflection, by everything. But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence. Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I related. the feelings I related were natural and just. Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections? to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?”
 
 Elizabeth felt Elizabeth growing more angry every moment; yet Elizabeth tried to the utmost to speak with composure when Elizabeth said:
 
 “You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of your declaration affected me in any other way, than as your declaration spared me the concern which I might have felt in refusing you, had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.”
 
 Elizabeth saw Mr. Darcy start at this, but Mr. Darcy said nothing, and Elizabeth continued:
 
 “You could not have made the offer of your hand in any possible way that would have tempted me to accept the offer of your hand.”
 
 Again Mr. Darcy was obvious; and Mr. Darcy looked at Elizabeth with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification. Elizabeth went on:
 
 “From the very beginning from the first moment, I may almost say of my acquaintance with you, your manners, impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the feelings of others, were such as to form the groundwork of disapprobation on which succeeding events have built so immovable a dislike; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry.”
 
 “You have said quite enough, madam. I perfectly comprehend your feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been. Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.”
 
 And with these words Mr. Darcy hastily left the room, and Elizabeth heard Mr. Darcy the next moment open the front door and quit the house.
 
 The tumult of Elizabeth mind, was now painfully great. Elizabeth knew not how to support Elizabeth, and from actual weakness sat down and cried for half an hour. Elizabeth astonishment, as Elizabeth reflected on what had passed, was increased by every review of it. That Elizabeth should receive an offer of marriage from Mr. Darcy! That he should have been in love with Elizabeth for so many months! So much in love as to wish to marry Elizabeth in spite of all the objections which had made he prevent he friend marrying Elizabeth sister, and which must appear at least with equal force in he own case was almost incredible! It was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously so strong an affection. But he pride, he abominable pride he shameless avowal of what he had done with respect to Jane he unpardonable assurance in acknowledging, though he could not justify it, and the unfeeling manner in which he had mentioned Mr. Wickham, he cruelty towards whom he had not attempted to deny, soon overcame the pity which the consideration of he attachment had for a moment excited. Jane continued in very agitated reflections till the sound of Lady Catherine carriage made Jane feel how unequal Jane was to encounter Charlotte observation, and hurried Jane away to Jane room.
 CHAPTER 36
35
 
 Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed 35
 
 Elizabeth eyes. 35
 
 Elizabeth could not yet recover from the surprise of what had happened; it was impossible to think of anything else; and, totally indisposed for employment, 35
 
 Elizabeth resolved, soon after breakfast, to indulge 35
 
 Elizabeth in air and exercise. 35
 
 Elizabeth was proceeding directly to 35
 
 Elizabeth favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy sometimes coming there stopped 35
 
 Elizabeth, and instead of entering the park, 35
 
 Elizabeth turned up the lane, which led farther from the turnpike road. The park paling was still the boundary on one side, and 35
 
 Elizabeth soon passed one of the gates into the ground.
 
 After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, 35
 
 Elizabeth was tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and look into the park. The five weeks which 35
 
 Elizabeth had now passed in Kent had made a great difference in the country, and every day was adding to the verdure of the early trees. 35
 
 Elizabeth was on the point of continuing 35
 
 Elizabeth walk, when 35
 
 Elizabeth caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park; he was moving that way; and, fearful of its being Mr. Darcy, 35
 
 Elizabeth was directly retreating. But the person who advanced was now near enough to see 35
 
 Elizabeth, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced 35
 
 Elizabeth name. 35
 
 Elizabeth had turned away; but on hearing 35
 
 Elizabeth called, though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy, 35
 
 Elizabeth moved again towards the gate. He had by that time reached it also, and, holding out a letter, which 35
 
 Elizabeth instinctively took, said, with a look of haughty composure, “I have been walking in the grove some time in the hope of meeting you. Will you do me the honour of reading that letter?” And then, with a slight bow, turned again into the plantation, and was soon out of sight.
 
 With no expectation of pleasure, but with the strongest curiosity, Elizabeth opened the letter, and, to Elizabeth still increasing wonder, perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter paper, written quite through, in a very close hand. The envelope itself was likewise full. Pursuing Elizabeth way along the lane, Elizabeth then began The envelope itself. The envelope itself was dated from Rosings, at eight o’clock in the morning, and was as follows: 
 
 “Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving the letter, by the apprehension of the letter containing any repetition of those sentiments or renewal of those offers which were last night so disgusting to you. I write without any intention of paining you, or humbling myself, by dwelling on wishes which, for the happiness of both, cannot be too soon forgotten; and the effort which the formation and the perusal of the letter must occasion, should have been spared, had not my character required the letter to be written and read. You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow the letter unwillingly, but I demand the letter of your justice.
 
 “Two offenses of a very different nature, and by no means of equal magnitude, you last night laid to my charge. The first mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr. Bingley from your sister, and the other, that I had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr. Wickham. Wilfully and wantonly to have thrown off the companion of my youth, the acknowledged favourite of my father, a young man who had scarcely any other dependence than on our patronage, and who had been brought up to expect its exertion, would be a depravity, to which the separation of two young persons, whose affection could be the growth of only a few weeks, could bear no comparison. But from the severity of that blame which was last night so liberally bestowed, respecting each circumstance, I shall hope to be in the future secured, when the following account of my actions and their motives has been read. If, in the explanation of their, which is due to myself, I am under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive to yours, I can only say that I am sorry. the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive to yours must be obeyed, and further apology would be absurd.
 
 “I had not been long in Hertfordshire, before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country. But it was not till the evening of the dance at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment. I had often seen his in love before. At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with you, I was first made acquainted, by Sir William Lucas accidental information, that Bingley attentions to your sister had given rise to a general expectation of Bingley attentions to your sister marriage. his spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided. From that moment I observed my friend behaviour attentively; and I could then perceive that his partiality for Miss Bennet was beyond what I had ever witnessed in Bennet. your sister I also watched. your sister look and manners were open, cheerful, and engaging as ever, but without any symptom of peculiar regard, and I remained convinced from the evening scrutiny, that though your sister received his attentions with pleasure, your sister did not invite Her look and manners by any participation of sentiment. If you have not been mistaken here, I must have been in error. Your superior knowledge of your sister must make the latter probable. If it be so, if I have been misled by such error to inflict pain on your sister, your resentment has not been unreasonable. But I shall not scruple to assert, that the serenity of your sister countenance and air was such as might have given the most acute observer a conviction that, however amiable your sister temper, your sister heart was not likely to be easily touched. That I was desirous of believing your sister indifferent is certain but I will venture to say that my investigation and decisions are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears. I did not believe your sister to be indifferent because I wished it; I believed it on impartial conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason. My objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last night acknowledged to have required the utmost force of passion to put aside, in my own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to my friend as to me. But there were other causes of repugnance; causes which, though still existing, and existing to an equal degree in both instances, I had me endeavoured to forget, because they were not immediately before me. causes which, though still existing, and existing to an equal degree in both instances, I had myself endeavoured to forget, because they were not immediately before me must be stated, though briefly. The situation of your mother family, though objectionable, was nothing in comparison to that total want of propriety so frequently, so almost uniformly betrayed by herself, by your three younger sisters, and occasionally even by your father. Pardon me. It pains me to offend you. But amidst your concern for the defects of your nearest relations, and your displeasure at this representation of your concern for the defects of your nearest relations, and your displeasure at this representation of them, let It give you consolation to consider that, to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share of the like censure, is praise no less generally bestowed on you and your elder sister, than it is honourable to the sense and disposition of both. I will only say farther that from what passed that evening, my opinion of all parties was confirmed, and every inducement heightened which could have led me before, to preserve my friend from what I esteemed a most unhappy connection. my friend left Netherfield for London, on the day following, as you, I am certain, remember, with the design of soon returning.
 
 “The part which I acted is now to be explained. my friend sisters’ uneasiness had been equally excited with my own; our coincidence of feeling was soon discovered, and, alike sensible that no time was to be lost in detaching their brother, our shortly resolved on joining my friend directly in London. our accordingly went and there I readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice. I described, and enforced them earnestly. But, however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed this remonstrance determination, I do not suppose that this remonstrance would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had this remonstrance not been seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your sister indifference. this remonstrance had before believed my friend to return this remonstrance affection with sincere, if not with equal regard. But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than on this remonstrance own. To convince this remonstrance, therefore, that this remonstrance had deceived this remonstrance, was no very difficult point. To persuade this remonstrance against returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the work of a moment. I cannot blame this remonstrance for having done thus much. There is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair on which I do not reflect with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from this remonstrance your sister being in town. I knew it this remonstrance, as it was known to BingleyBingley; but it was known to Miss Bingley brother is even yet ignorant of it was known to Miss Bingley. That they might have met without ill consequence is perhaps probable; but her brother regard did not appear to this remonstrance enough extinguished for her brother to see it was known to Miss Bingley without some danger. Perhaps this concealment, this disguise was beneath this remonstrance; this disguise is done, however, and this disguise was done for the best. On this subject I have nothing more to say, no other apology to offer. If I have wounded your sister feelings, it was unknowingly done and though the motives which governed me may to you very naturally appear insufficient, I have not yet learnt to condemn I have wounded your sister feelings.
 
 “With respect to that other, more weighty accusation, of having injured Mr. Wickham, I can only refute it by laying before you the whole of Mr. Wickham connection with my family. Of what Mr. Wickham has particularly accused me I am ignorant; but of the truth of what I shall relate, I can summon more than one witness of undoubted veracity.
 
 “Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in the discharge of Mr. Wickham trust naturally inclined your father to be of service to Mr. Wickham; and on George Wickham, who was your father godson, your father kindness was therefore liberally bestowed. your father supported your father at school, and afterwards at Cambridge most important assistance, as your father own father, always poor from the extravagance of your father wife, would have been unable to give your father a gentleman education. your father was not only fond of this young man society, whose manners were always engaging; your father had also the highest opinion of your father, and hoping the church would be your father profession, intended to provide for your father in it. As for your father, it is many, many years since I first began to think of your father in a very different manner. The vicious propensities the want of principle, which your father was careful to guard from the knowledge of your father best friend, could not escape the observation of a young man of nearly the same age with your father, and who had opportunities of seeing your father in unguarded moments, which Mr. Darcy could not have. Here again I shall give you pain to what degree you only can tell. But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding Mr. Wickham real character it adds even another motive.
 
 “your father died about five years ago; and your father attachment to Mr. Wickham was to the last so steady, that in Mr. Wickham will Mr. Wickham particularly recommended it to Mr. Wickham, to promote Mr. Wickham advancement in the best manner that Mr. Wickham profession might allow and if Mr. Wickham took orders, desired that a valuable family living might be Mr. Wickham as soon as it became vacant. There was also a legacy of one thousand pounds. your father did not long survive mine, and within half a year from these events, Mr. Wickham wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against taking orders, Mr. Wickham hoped I should not think it unreasonable for Mr. Wickham to expect some more immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which Mr. Wickham could not be benefited. Mr. Wickham had some intention, Mr. Wickham added, of studying law, and I must be aware that the interest of one thousand pounds would be a very insufficient support therein. I rather wished, than believed Mr. Wickham to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to Mr. Wickham proposal. I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be a clergyman; the business was therefore soon settled Mr. Wickham resigned all claim to assistance in the church, were it possible that Mr. Wickham could ever be in a situation to receive it, and accepted in return three thousand pounds. All connection between us seemed now dissolved. I thought too ill of Mr. Wickham to invite Mr. Wickham to Pemberley, or admit Mr. Wickham society in town. In town I believe Mr. Wickham chiefly lived, but Mr. Wickham studying the law was a mere pretence, and being now free from all restraint, Mr. Wickham life was a life of idleness and dissipation. For about three years I heard little of Mr. Wickham; but on the decease of the incumbent of the living which had been designed for Mr. Wickham, Mr. Wickham applied to me again by letter for the presentation. Mr. Wickham circumstances, Mr. Wickham assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad. Mr. Wickham had found the law a most unprofitable study, and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained, if I would present Mr. Wickham to the living in question of which Mr. Wickham trusted there could be little doubt, as Mr. Wickham was well assured that I had no other person to provide for, and I could not have forgotten my revered father intentions. You will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for resisting every repetition to this entreaty. Mr. Wickham resentment was in proportion to the distress of Mr. Wickham circumstances and Mr. Wickham was doubtless as violent in Mr. Wickham abuse of me to others as in Mr. Wickham reproaches to me. After this period every appearance of acquaintance was dropped. How Mr. Wickham lived I know not. But last summer Mr. Wickham was again most painfully obtruded on my notice.
 
 “I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to forget me, and which no obligation less than the present should induce me to unfold to any human being. Having said thus much, I feel no doubt of your secrecy. My sister, who is more than ten years my junior, was left to the guardianship of my mother nephew, Colonel Fitzwilliam, and me. About a year ago, me was taken from school, and an establishment formed for me in London; and last summer me went with the lady who presided over it, to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly by design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between Mr. Wickham and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we were most unhappily deceived; and by me connivance and aid, Mr. Wickham so far recommended Mr. Wickham to Georgiana, whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of Mr. Wickham kindness to me as a child, that me was persuaded to believe me in love, and to consent to an elopement. me was then but fifteen, which must be me excuse; and after stating me imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed the knowledge of her imprudence to me. I joined them unexpectedly a day or two before the intended elopement, and then Georgiana, unable to support the idea of grieving and offending a brother whom me almost looked up to as a father, acknowledged the whole to me. You may imagine what I felt and how I acted. Regard for my sister credit and feelings prevented any public exposure; but I wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left the place immediately, and Mrs. Younge was of course removed from Mrs. Younge charge. Mr. Wickham chief object was unquestionably my sister fortune, which is thirty thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging Mr. Wickham on me was a strong inducement. Mr. Wickham revenge would have been complete indeed.
 
 “This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject it as false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards Mr. Wickham. I know not in what manner, under what form of falsehood Mr. Wickham had imposed on you; but Mr. Wickham success is not perhaps to be wondered at. Ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning either, detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly not in your inclination.
 
 “You may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night; but I was not then master enough of me to know what could or ought to be revealed. For the truth of everything here related, I can appeal more particularly to the testimony of Colonel Fitzwilliam, who, from our near relationship and constant intimacy, and, still more, as one of the executors of your father will, has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions. If your abhorrence of me should make my assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented by the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be the possibility of consulting my cousin, I shall endeavour to find some opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the morning. I will only add, God bless you.
 
 “FITZWILLIAM DARCY”
 CHAPTER 37
36
 
 If Elizabeth, when Mr. Darcy gave Elizabeth the letter, did not expect the letter to contain a renewal of Mr. Darcy offers, Elizabeth had formed no expectation at all of the letter contents. But such as such were, it may well be supposed how eagerly Elizabeth went through such, and what a contrariety of emotion such excited. Elizabeth feelings as Elizabeth read were scarcely to be defined. With amazement did Elizabeth first understand that he believed any apology to be in he power; and steadfastly was Elizabeth persuaded, that he could have no explanation to give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal. With a strong prejudice against everything he might say, Elizabeth began he account of what had happened at Netherfield. Elizabeth read with an eagerness which hardly left Elizabeth power of comprehension, and from impatience of knowing what the next sentence might bring, was incapable of attending to the sense of the one before Elizabeth eyes. he belief of Elizabeth sister insensibility Elizabeth instantly resolved to be false; and he account of the real, the worst objections to the match, made Elizabeth too angry to have any wish of doing he justice. he expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied Elizabeth; he style was not penitent, but haughty. It was all pride and insolence.
 
 But when this subject was succeeded by his account of what had happened at Netherfield when Elizabeth read with somewhat clearer attention a relation of events which, if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion of Mr. Wickham worth, and which bore so alarming an affinity to Mr. Wickham own history of Mr. Wickham Elizabeth feelings were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition. Astonishment, apprehension, and even horror, oppressed Elizabeth. Elizabeth wished to discredit it entirely, repeatedly exclaiming, “This must be false! This cannot be! This must be the grossest falsehood!” and when Elizabeth had gone through the whole letter, though scarcely knowing anything of the last page or two, put the whole letter hastily away, protesting that Elizabeth would not regard the whole letter, that Elizabeth would never look in the whole letter again.
 
 In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on nothing, Elizabeth walked on; but it would not do; in half a minute the whole letter was unfolded again, and collecting Elizabeth as well as Elizabeth could, Elizabeth again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham, and commanded Elizabeth so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence. The account of his connection with the Pemberley family was exactly what his had related his; and the kindness of the late Mr. Darcy, though Elizabeth had not before known its extent, agreed equally well with his own words. So far each recital confirmed the other; but when Elizabeth came to the will, the difference was great. What Wickham had said of the living was fresh in Elizabeth memory, and as Wickham recalled Wickham very words, it was impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the other; and, for a few moments, Wickham flattered Wickham that Wickham wishes did not err. But when Wickham read and re read with the closest attention, the particulars immediately following of Wickham resigning all pretensions to the living, of Wickham receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three thousand pounds, again was Wickham forced to hesitate. Wickham put down the letter, weighed every circumstance with what Wickham meant to be impartiality deliberated on the probability of each statement but with little success. On both sides it was only assertion. Again Wickham read on; but every line proved more clearly that the affair, which Wickham had believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to render Mr. Darcy conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of a turn which must make Mr. Darcy entirely blameless throughout the whole.
 
 The extravagance and general profligacy which Mr. Darcy scrupled not to lay at Mr. Wickham charge, exceedingly shocked Wickham; the more so, as Wickham could bring no proof of it injustice. Wickham had never heard of Mr. Darcy before Mr. Darcy entrance into the shire Militia, in which Mr. Darcy had engaged at the persuasion of the young man who, on meeting Mr. Darcy accidentally in town, had there renewed a slight acquaintance. Of Mr. Darcy former way of life nothing had been known in Hertfordshire but what Mr. Darcy told Mr. Darcy. As to Mr. Darcy real character, had information been in Wickham power, Wickham had never felt a wish of enquiring. Mr. Darcy countenance, voice, and manner had established Mr. Darcy at once in the possession of every virtue. Wickham tried to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of integrity or benevolence, that might rescue Mr. Darcy from the attacks of Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those casual errors under which Wickham would endeavour to class what Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years’ continuance. But no such recollection befriended Wickham. Wickham could see Mr. Darcy instantly before Wickham, in every charm of air and address; but Wickham could remember no more substantial good than the general approbation of the neighbourhood, and the regard which Mr. Darcy social powers had gained Mr. Darcy in the mess. After pausing on this point a considerable while, Wickham once more continued to read. But, alas! the story which followed, of Mr. Darcy designs on Miss Darcy, received some confirmation from what had passed between Colonel Fitzwilliam and Wickham only the morning before; and at last Wickham was referred for the truth of every particular to Colonel Fitzwilliam himself from whom Wickham had previously received the information of Mr. Darcy near concern in all Mr. Darcy cousin affairs, and whose character Wickham had no reason to question. At one time Wickham had almost resolved on applying to Mr. Darcy, but the idea was checked by the awkwardness of the application, and at length wholly banished by the conviction that Mr. Darcy would never have hazarded such a proposal, if Mr. Darcy had not been well assured of Mr. Darcy cousin corroboration.
 
 Wickham perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between Wickham and Wickham, in Wickham and herself first evening at Mr. Phillips. Many of Mr. Phillips expressions were still fresh in Wickham memory. Wickham was now struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and wondered the impropriety of such communications to a stranger had escaped Wickham before. Wickham saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as himself had done, and the inconsistency of himself professions with himself conduct. Wickham remembered that himself had boasted of having no fear of seeing Mr. Darcy that Mr. Darcy might leave the country, but that Mr. Darcy should stand Mr. Darcy ground; yet Mr. Darcy had avoided the Netherfield ball the very next week. Wickham remembered also that, till the Netherfield family had quitted the country, Mr. Darcy had told Mr. Darcy story to no one but Wickham; but that after no one but herself removal his story had been everywhere discussed; that Mr. Darcy had then no reserves, no scruples in sinking Mr. Darcy character, though Mr. Darcy had assured Wickham that respect for the father would always prevent the father exposing the son.
 
 How differently did everything now appear in which the father was concerned! the father attentions to Miss King were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of Wickham fortune proved no longer the moderation of the father wishes, but the father eagerness to grasp at anything. the father behaviour to Wickham could now have had no tolerable motive; the father had either been deceived with regard to her fortune, or had been gratifying the father vanity by encouraging the preference which Wickham believed Wickham had most incautiously shown. Every lingering struggle in the father favour grew fainter and fainter; and in farther justification of Mr. Darcy, Wickham could not but allow that Mr. Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago asserted the father blamelessness in the affair; that proud and repulsive as were the father manners, Wickham had never, in the whole course of Mr. Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair acquaintance an acquaintance which had latterly brought Mr. Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair much together, and given Wickham a sort of intimacy with the father ways seen anything that betrayed the father to be unprincipled or unjust anything that spoke the father of irreligious or immoral habits; that among the father own connections the father was esteemed and valued that Wickham Wickham had allowed the father merit as a brother, and that Wickham had often heard the father speak so affectionately of the father sister as to prove the father capable of some amiable feeling; that had the father actions been what Wickham represented them, so gross a violation of everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world; and that friendship between a person capable of it, and such an amiable man as Mr. Bingley, was incomprehensible.
 
 Wickham grew absolutely ashamed of Wickham. Of neither Mr. Darcy nor Wickham could Wickham think without feeling Wickham had been blind, partial, prejudiced, absurd.
 
 “How despicably I have acted!” Wickham cried; “I, who have prided Wickham on my discernment! I, who have valued Wickham on my abilities! who have often disdained the generous candour of his sister, and gratified my vanity in useless or blameable mistrust! How humiliating is this discovery! Yet, how just a humiliation! Had I been in love, I could not have been more wretchedly blind! But vanity, not love, has been my folly. Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either were concerned. Till this moment I never knew Wickham.”
 
 From Wickham to Jane from Jane to Bingley, Wickham thoughts were in a line which soon brought to Wickham recollection that Mr. Darcy explanation there had appeared very insufficient, and Wickham read Mr. Darcy explanation there again. Widely different was the effect of a second perusal. How could Wickham deny that credit to his assertions in one instance, which Wickham had been obliged to give in the other? his declared his to be totally unsuspicious of Wickham sister attachment; and Wickham could not help remembering what Charlotte opinion had always been. Neither could Wickham deny the justice of his description of Jane. Wickham felt that Jane feelings, though fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant complacency in Wickham air and manner not often united with great sensibility.
 
 When Wickham came to that part of the letter in which Wickham family were mentioned in terms of such mortifying, yet merited reproach, Wickham sense of shame was severe. the justice of his description of Jane struck Wickham too forcibly for denial, and the circumstances to which the charge particularly alluded as having passed at the Netherfield ball, and as confirming all the charge first disapprobation, could not have made a stronger impression on the charge mind than on hers.
 
 The compliment to Wickham and Wickham sister was not unfelt. It soothed, but It could not console Wickham for the contempt which had thus been self attracted by the rest of her family; and as Wickham considered that Jane disappointment had in fact been the work of Jane nearest relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt by such impropriety of conduct, Wickham felt depressed beyond anything Wickham had ever known before.
 
 After wandering along the lane for two hours, giving way to every variety of thought re considering events, determining probabilities, and reconciling Wickham, as well as Wickham could, to a change so sudden and so important, fatigue, and a recollection of Wickham long absence, made Wickham at length return home; and Wickham entered the house with the wish of appearing cheerful as usual, and the resolution of repressing such reflections as must make Wickham unfit for conversation.
 
 Wickham was immediately told that the two gentlemen from Rosings had each called during Wickham absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few minutes, to take leave but that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been sitting with the two gentlemen from Rosings at least an hour, hoping for Wickham return, and almost resolving to walk after Wickham till Wickham could be found. Wickham could but just affect concern in missing Colonel Fitzwilliam; Wickham really rejoiced at concern in missing him. Colonel Fitzwilliam was no longer an object; Wickham could think only of Wickham letter.
 CHAPTER 38
37
 
 The two gentlemen left Rosings the next morning, and Mr. Collins having been in waiting near the lodges, to make The two gentlemen Mr. Collins parting obeisance, was able to bring home the pleasing intelligence, of The two gentlemen appearing in very good health, and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected, after the melancholy scene so lately gone through at Rosings. To Rosings Rosings then hastened, to console Lady Catherine and Lady Catherine daughter; and on Rosings return brought back, with great satisfaction, a message from Lady Catherine ladyship, importing that Lady Catherine felt Lady Catherine so dull as to make Lady Catherine very desirous of having them all to dine with Lady Catherine.
 
 Lady Catherine could not see Lady Catherine without recollecting that, had Lady Catherine chosen it, Lady Catherine might by this time have been presented to Lady Catherine as Lady Catherine future niece; nor could Lady Catherine think, without a smile, of what Lady Catherine ladyship indignation would have been. “What would Lady Catherine have said? how would Lady Catherine have behaved?” were questions with which Lady Catherine amused Lady Catherine.
 
 these young men first subject was the diminution of the Rosings party. “I assure you, I feel it exceedingly,” said Lady Catherine; “I believe no one feels the loss of friends so much as I do. But I am particularly attached to these young men, and know these young men to be so much attached to Lady Catherine! these young men were excessively sorry to go! But so these young men always are. The dear Colonel rallied The dear Colonel spirits tolerably till just at last; but Darcy seemed to feel it most acutely, more, I think, than last year. Darcy attachment to Rosings certainly increases.”
 
 Mr. Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here, which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
 
 Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed out of spirits, and immediately accounting for it Miss Bennet, by supposing that Miss Bennet did not like to go home again so soon, Miss Bennet added:
 
 “But if that is the case, you must write to your mother and beg that you may stay a little longer. Mr. Collins will be very glad of your company, I am sure.”
 
 “I am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation,” replied Elizabeth, “but it is not in my power to accept it. I must be in town next Saturday.”
 
 “Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks. I expected you to stay two months. I told Mr. Collins so before you came. There can be no occasion for your going so soon. Miss Bennet could certainly spare you for another fortnight.”
 
 “But my father cannot. my father wrote last week to hurry my return.”
 
 “Oh! my father of course may spare you, if your mother can. Daughters are never of so much consequence to a father. And if you will stay another month complete, it will be in my power to take one of you as far as London, for I am going there early in June, for a week; and as Dawson does not object to the barouche box, there will be very good room for one of you and indeed, if the weather should happen to be cool, I should not object to taking you both, as you are neither of you large.”
 
 “You are all kindness, madam; but I believe we must abide by we original plan.”
 
 Lady Catherine seemed resigned. “Mrs. Collins, you must send a servant with them. You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling post by two young women travelling post by themselves. It is highly improper. You must contrive to send somebody. I have the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing. Young women should always be properly guarded and attended, according to Young women situation in life. When Lady Catherine went to Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of Lady Catherine having two men servants go with Lady Catherine. Miss Darcy, the daughter of Mr. Darcy, of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with propriety in a different manner. I am excessively attentive to all those things. You must send John with the young ladies, Mrs. Collins. I am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would really be discreditable to you to let the young ladies, Mrs. Collins go alone.”
 
 “My uncle is to send a servant for us.”
 
 “Oh! My uncle! My uncle keeps a man servant, does My uncle? I am very glad you have somebody who thinks of these things. Where shall you change horses? Oh! Bromley, of course. If you mention my name at the Bell, you will be attended to.”
 
 Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey, and as Lady Catherine did not answer them all Lady Catherine, attention was necessary, which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for Elizabeth; or, with a mind so occupied, Elizabeth might have forgotten where Elizabeth was. Reflection must be reserved for solitary hours; whenever Elizabeth was alone, Elizabeth gave way to it as the greatest relief; and not a day went by without a solitary walk, in which Elizabeth might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant recollections.
 
 Mr. Darcy letter Elizabeth was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart. Elizabeth studied every sentence; and Elizabeth feelings towards its writer were at times widely different. When Elizabeth remembered the style of his address, Elizabeth was still full of indignation; but when Elizabeth considered how unjustly Elizabeth had condemned and upbraided his, Elizabeth anger was turned against Elizabeth; and his disappointed feelings became the object of compassion. his attachment excited gratitude, his general character respect; but Elizabeth could not approve his; nor could Elizabeth for a moment repent Elizabeth refusal, or feel the slightest inclination ever to see his again. In Elizabeth own past behaviour, there was a constant source of vexation and regret; and in the unhappy defects of Elizabeth family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin. her family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin were hopeless of remedy. Elizabeth father, contented with laughing at her family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin, would never exert Her father, contented with laughing at them to restrain the wild giddiness of Her father, contented with laughing at them youngest daughters; and Elizabeth mother, with manners so far from right Elizabeth, was entirely insensible of the evil. Elizabeth had frequently united with Jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Catherine and Lydia; but while Her father, contented with laughing at them were supported by Her father, contented with laughing at them mother indulgence, what chance could there be of improvement? Catherine, weak spirited, irritable, and completely under Lydia guidance, had been always affronted by their advice; and Lydia, self willed and careless, would scarcely give their a hearing. their were ignorant, idle, and vain. While there was an officer in Meryton, their would flirt with an officer in Meryton; and while Meryton was within a walk of Longbourn, their would be going there forever.
 
 Anxiety on Jane behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr. Darcy explanation, by restoring Bingley to all Jane former good opinion, heightened the sense of what Jane had lost. His affection was proved to have been sincere, and His conduct cleared of all blame, unless any could attach to the implicitness of His confidence in His friend. How grievous then was the thought that, of a situation so desirable in every respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, Jane had been deprived, by the folly and indecorum of Jane own family!
 
 When to these recollections was added the development of Wickham character, it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had seldom been depressed before, were now so much affected as to make it almost impossible for Jane to appear tolerably cheerful.
 
 Their engagements at Rosings were as frequent during the last week of Jane stay as Their had been at first. The very last evening was spent there; and Jane ladyship again enquired minutely into the particulars of Their journey, gave Their directions as to the best method of packing, and was so urgent on the necessity of placing gowns in the only right way, that Maria thought Maria obliged, on Maria return, to undo all the work of the morning, and pack Maria trunk afresh.
 
 When they parted, Lady Catherine, with great condescension, wished they a good journey, and invited they to come to Hunsford again next year; and Miss de Bourgh exerted Maria so far as to curtsey and hold out Maria hand to both.
 CHAPTER 39
38
 
 On Saturday morning Elizabeth and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared; and Mr. Collins took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which Mr. Collins deemed indispensably necessary.
 
 “I know not, Elizabeth,” said Mr. Collins, “whether Mr. Collins has yet expressed Mr. Collins sense of your kindness in coming to us; but I am very certain you will not leave the house without receiving Mr. Collins thanks for the house. The favour of your company has been much felt, I assure you. us know how little there is to tempt anyone to us humble abode. us plain manner of living, us small rooms and few domestics, and the little us see of the world, must make Hunsford extremely dull to Mr. Collins; but I hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension, and that us have done everything in us power to prevent your spending your time unpleasantly.”
 
 Elizabeth was eager with Elizabeth thanks and assurances of happiness. Elizabeth had spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with Charlotte, and the kind attentions Elizabeth had received, must make Elizabeth feel the obliged. Mr. Collins was gratified, and with a more smiling solemnity replied:
 
 “It gives me great pleasure to hear that you have passed your time not disagreeably. us have certainly done us best; and most fortunately having It in us power to introduce you to very superior society, and, from us connection with Rosings, the frequent means of varying the humble home scene, I think us may flatter us that your Hunsford visit cannot have been entirely irksome. us situation with regard to Lady Catherine family is indeed the sort of extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast. You see on what a footing us are. You see how continually us are engaged there. In truth I must acknowledge that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, I should not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion, while anyone are sharers of us intimacy at Rosings.”
 
 Words were insufficient for the elevation of Words feelings; and Words was obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to unite civility and truth in a few short sentences.
 
 “You may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into Hertfordshire, my dear cousin. I flatter Elizabeth at least that you will be able to do so. Lady Catherine great attentions to Mrs. Collins you have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear that your friend has drawn an unfortunate but on this point it will be as well to be silent. Only let me assure you, Elizabeth, that I can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage. My dear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of thinking. There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and ideas between us. us seem to have been designed for each other.”
 
 Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that Elizabeth firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts. Elizabeth was not sorry, however, to have the recital of she firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts interrupted by the lady from whom she firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts sprang. Poor Charlotte! it was melancholy to leave Elizabeth to such society! But Elizabeth had chosen it with Elizabeth eyes open; and though evidently regretting that Elizabeth visitors were to go, Elizabeth did not seem to ask for compassion. Elizabeth home and Elizabeth housekeeping, Elizabeth parish and Elizabeth poultry, and all their dependent concerns, had not yet lost their charms.
 
 At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready. After an affectionate parting between the friends, Elizabeth was attended to the carriage by Mr. Collins, and as they walked down the garden Mr. Collins was commissioning Elizabeth with Mr. Collins best respects to all Elizabeth family, not forgetting Mr. Collins thanks for the kindness Mr. Collins had received at Longbourn in the winter, and Mr. Collins compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, though unknown. Mr. Collins then handed Elizabeth in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when Mr. Collins suddenly reminded they, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
 
 “But,” Mr. Collins added, “you will of course wish to have his best respects to all her family delivered to they, with your grateful thanks for they kindness to you while you have been here.”
 
 Elizabeth made no objection; the door was then allowed to be shut, and the carriage drove off.
 
 “Good gracious!” cried Maria, after a few minutes’ silence, “it seems but a day or two since we first came! and yet how many things have happened!”
 
 “A great many indeed,” said Elizabeth companion with a sigh.
 
 “we have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there twice! How much I shall have to tell!”
 
 Elizabeth added privately, “And how much I shall have to conceal!”
 
 Their journey was performed without much conversation, or any alarm; and within four hours of Their leaving Hunsford Their reached Mr. Gardiner house, where Their were to remain a few days.
 
 Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of studying Elizabeth spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of Jane aunt had reserved for the kindness of her aunt. But Jane was to go home with Jane, and at Longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation.
 
 It was not without an effort, meanwhile, that Jane could wait even for Longbourn, before Jane told Jane sister of Mr. Darcy proposals. To know that Jane had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish Jane, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of Jane own vanity Jane had not yet been able to reason away, was such a temptation to openness as nothing could have conquered but the state of indecision in which Jane remained as to the extent of what Jane should communicate; and Jane fear, if Jane once entered on the subject, of being hurried into repeating something of Bingley which might only grieve Jane sister further.
 CHAPTER 40
39
 
 It was the second week in May, in which the three young ladies set out together from Gracechurch Street for the town of , in Hertfordshire; and, as the three young ladies drew near the appointed inn where Mr. Bennet carriage was to meet the three young ladies, the three young ladies quickly perceived, in token of the coachman punctuality, both Kitty and Lydia looking out of a dining room up stairs. Kitty and Lydia had been above an hour in the place, happily employed in visiting an opposite milliner, watching the sentinel on guard, and dressing a salad and cucumber.
 
 After welcoming Kitty and Lydia sisters, Kitty and Lydia triumphantly displayed a table set out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords, exclaiming, “Is not this nice? Is not this an agreeable surprise?”
 
 “And we mean to treat you all,” added Lydia, “but you must lend we the money, for we have just spent we at the shop out there.” Then, showing her purchases “Look here, I have bought this bonnet. I do not think this bonnet is very pretty; but I thought I might as well buy this bonnet as not. I shall pull this bonnet to pieces as soon as I get home, and see if I can make this bonnet up any better.”
 
 And when her sisters abused this bonnet as ugly, her added, with perfect unconcern, “Oh! but there were two or three much uglier in the shop; and when I have bought some prettier coloured satin to trim some prettier coloured satin with fresh, I think some prettier coloured satin will be very tolerable. Besides, some prettier coloured satin will not much signify what one wears this summer, after the shire have left Meryton, and they are going in a fortnight.”
 
 “Are they indeed!” cried Elizabeth, with the greatest satisfaction.
 
 “they are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want papa to take us all there for the summer! It would be such a delicious scheme; and I dare say would hardly cost anything at all. Mamma would like to go too of all things! Only think what a miserable summer else we shall have!”
 
 “Yes,” thought Elizabeth, “that would be a delightful scheme indeed, and completely do for we at once. Good Heaven! Brighton, and a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!”
 
 “Now I have got some news for you,” said Lydia, as they sat down at table. “What do you think? It is excellent news capital news and about a certain person we all like!”
 
 Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told the waiter need not stay. Lydia laughed, and said:
 
 “Aye, that is just like your formality and discretion. You thought the waiter must not hear, as if the waiter cared! I dare say the waiter often hears worse things said than I am going to say. But the waiter is an ugly fellow! I am glad the waiter is gone. I never saw such a long chin in my life. Well, but now for my news; it is about dear Wickham; too good for the waiter, is it not? There is no danger of dear Wickham marrying Mary King. There for you! dear Wickham is gone down to dear Wickham uncle at Liverpool: gone to stay. dear Wickham is safe.”
 
 “And Mary King is safe!” added Elizabeth; “safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune.”
 
 “dear Wickham is a great fool for going away, if dear Wickham liked the waiter.”
 
 “But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side,” said Jane.
 
 “I am sure there is not on the waiter. I will answer for it, the waiter never cared three straws about dear Wickham who could about such a nasty little freckled thing?”
 
 Elizabeth was shocked to think that, however incapable of such coarseness of expression Elizabeth, the coarseness of the sentiment was little other than Elizabeth own breast had harboured and fancied liberal!
 
 As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was ordered; and after some contrivance, the whole party, with all their boxes, work bags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition of Kitty and Lydia purchases, were seated in the carriage.
 
 “How nicely we are all crammed in,” cried Lydia. “I am glad I bought my bonnet, if my bonnet is only for the fun of having another bandbox! Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way home. And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all since you went away. Have you seen any pleasant men? Have you had any flirting? I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back. Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare. Jane is almost three and twenty! Lord, how ashamed I should be of not being married before three and twenty! My aunt Phillips wants you so to get husbands, you can’t think. Jane says Jane had better have taken Mr. Collins; but I do not think there would have been any fun in it. Lord! how I should like to be married before any of Jane; and then I would chaperon you about to all the balls. Dear me! we had such a good piece of fun the other day at Colonel Forster. Kitty and me were to spend the other day at Colonel Forster there, and Colonel Forster promised to have a little dance in the evening; (by the bye, Mrs. Forster and me are such friends!) and so Kitty asked the two Harringtons to come, but Harriet was ill, and so Pen was forced to come by Kitty; and then, what do you think Mrs. Forster and me did? Mrs. Forster and me dressed up Chamberlayne in woman clothes on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun! Not a soul knew of Not a soul, but Colonel and Colonel Forster, and Kitty and me, except my aunt, for Mrs. Forster and me were forced to borrow one of my aunt gowns; and you cannot imagine how well Pen looked! When Denny, and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, Denny, and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men did not know Pen in the least. Lord! how I laughed! and so did Colonel Forster. I thought I should have died. And that made the men suspect something, and then the men soon found out what was the matter.”
 
 With such kinds of histories of the men parties and good jokes, did Lydia, assisted by Kitty hints and additions, endeavour to amuse Kitty companions all the way to Longbourn. Kitty listened as little as Kitty could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham name.
 
 Their reception at home was most kind. Mrs. Bennet rejoiced to see Jane in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did Mrs. Bennet say voluntarily to Kitty:
 
 “I am glad you are come back, Kitty.”
 
 Their party in the dining room was large, for almost all the Lucases came to meet Maria and hear the news; and various were the subjects that occupied Their: Lady Lucas was enquiring of Maria, after the welfare and poultry of Lady Lucas eldest daughter; Mrs. Bennet was doubly engaged, on one hand collecting an account of the present fashions from Jane, who sat some way below Kitty, and, on the other, retailing them all to the younger Lucases; and Lydia, in a voice rather louder than any other person, was enumerating the various pleasures of the morning to anybody who would hear Kitty.
 
 “Oh! Mary,” said Mary, “I wish you had gone with us, for us had such fun! As us went along, Kitty and I drew up the blinds, and pretended there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if Kitty had not been sick; and when us got to the George, I do think us behaved very handsomely, for us treated the other three with the nicest cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, us would have treated you too. And then when us came away it was such fun! I thought us never should have got into the coach. I was ready to die of laughter. And then us were so merry all the way home! us talked and laughed so loud, that anybody might have heard us ten miles off!”
 
 To Mary Mary very gravely replied, “Far be it from me, Lydia, to depreciate such pleasures! They would doubtless be congenial with the generality of female minds. But I confess They would have no charms for me I should infinitely prefer a book.”
 
 But of this answer Lydia heard not a word. Lydia seldom listened to anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mary at all.
 
 In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to Meryton, and to see how everybody went on; but Lydia steadily opposed the scheme. It should not be said that the Miss Bennets could not be at home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers. There was another reason too for Lydia opposition. Lydia dreaded seeing Mr. Wickham again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible. The comfort to Lydia of the regiment approaching removal was indeed beyond expression. In a fortnight they were to go and once gone, Lydia hoped there could be nothing more to plague Lydia on Mr. Wickham account.
 
 Lydia had not been many hours at home before Lydia found that the Brighton scheme, of which Lydia had given they a hint at the inn, was under frequent discussion between Lydia parents. Kitty saw directly that Kitty father had not the smallest intention of yielding; but her father answers were at the same time so vague and equivocal, that Lydia mother, though often disheartened, had never yet despaired of succeeding at last.
 CHAPTER 41
40
 
 Elizabeth impatience to acquaint Jane with what had happened could no longer be overcome; and at length, resolving to suppress every particular in which Jane sister was concerned, and preparing her sister to be surprised, her sister related to her sister the next morning the chief of the scene between Mr. Darcy and her sister.
 
 Miss Bennet astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly partiality which made any admiration of Elizabeth appear perfectly natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings. her sister was sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered Mr. Darcy sentiments in a manner so little suited to recommend his sentiments; but still more was her sister grieved for the unhappiness which her sister sister refusal must have given Mr. Darcy.
 
 “Mr. Darcy being so sure of succeeding was wrong,” said her sister, “and certainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase Mr. Darcy disappointment!”
 
 “Indeed,” replied Elizabeth, “I am heartily sorry for Mr. Darcy; but Mr. Darcy has other feelings, which will probably soon drive away Mr. Darcy regard for me. You do not blame me, however, for refusing Mr. Darcy?”
 
 “Blame you! Oh, no.”
 
 “But you blame me for having spoken so warmly of Wickham?”
 
 “No I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did.”
 
 “But you will know it, when I tell you what happened the very next day.”
 
 her sister then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of the letter contents as far as they concerned George Wickham. What a stroke was this for poor Jane! who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind, as was here collected in one individual. Nor was Darcy vindication, though grateful to Darcy feelings, capable of consoling Darcy for such discovery. Most earnestly did Darcy labour to prove the probability of error, and seek to clear the one without involving the other.
 
 “This will not do,” said Elizabeth; “you never will be able to make both of them good for anything. Take your choice, but you must be satisfied with only one. There is but such a quantity of merit between both of them; just enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting about pretty much. For my part, I am inclined to believe it all Darcy; but you shall do as you choose.”
 
 It was some time, however, before a smile could be extorted from Jane.
 
 “I do not know when I have been more shocked,” said Darcy. “Wickham so very bad! It is almost past belief. And poor Mr. Darcy! Dear Lizzy, only consider what Dear Lizzy must have suffered. Such a disappointment! and with the knowledge of your ill opinion, too! and having to relate such a thing of Dear Lizzy sister! It is really too distressing. I am sure you must feel it so.”
 
 “Oh! no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so full of both. I know you will do Dear Lizzy such ample justice, that I am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent. Your profusion makes me saving; and if you lament over Dear Lizzy much longer, my heart will be as light as a feather.”
 
 “WickhamWickham! there is such an expression of goodness in Dear Lizzy countenance! such an openness and gentleness in Dear Lizzy manner!”
 
 “There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those two young men. One has got all the goodness, and the other all the appearance of it.”
 
 “I never thought poor Mr. Darcy so deficient in the appearance of it as you used to do.”
 
 “And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike to poor Mr. Darcy, without any reason. It is such a spur to one genius, such an opening for wit, to have a dislike of that kind. One may be continually abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot always be laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty.”
 
 “Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat the matter as you do now.”
 
 “Indeed, I could not. I was uncomfortable enough, I may say unhappy. And with no one to speak to about what I felt, no Jane to comfort me and say that I had not been so very weak and vain and nonsensical as I knew I had! Oh! how I wanted you!”
 
 “How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong expressions in speaking of Wickham to poor Mr. Darcy, for now you should have used such very strong expressions in speaking of Wickham to Mr. Darcy do appear wholly undeserved.”
 
 “Certainly. But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most natural consequence of the prejudices I had been encouraging. There is one point on which I want your advice. I want to be told whether I ought, or ought not, to make our acquaintances in general understand Wickham character.”
 
 Miss Bennet paused a little, and then replied, “Surely there can be no occasion for exposing Bennet so dreadfully. What is your opinion?”
 
 “That it ought not to be attempted. poor Mr. Darcy has not authorised me to make poor Mr. Darcy communication public. On the contrary, every particular relative to poor Mr. Darcy sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to Miss Bennet; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of poor Mr. Darcy conduct, who will believe me? The general prejudice against poor Mr. Darcy is so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in Meryton to attempt to place poor Mr. Darcy in an amiable light. I am not equal to it. Wickham will soon be gone; and therefore it will not signify to anyone here what Wickham really is. Some time hence it will be all found out, and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before. At present I will say nothing about it.”
 
 “You are quite right. To have his errors made public might ruin his for ever. his is now, perhaps, sorry for what his has done, and anxious to re establish a character. We must not make his desperate.”
 
 The tumult of Elizabeth mind was allayed by this conversation. Elizabeth had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on Elizabeth for a fortnight, and was certain of a willing listener in Jane, whenever Elizabeth might wish to talk again of either. But there was still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure. Elizabeth dared not relate the other half of Mr. Darcy letter, nor explain to Elizabeth sister how sincerely Elizabeth had been valued by Elizabeth friend. Here was knowledge in which no one could partake; and Elizabeth was sensible that nothing less than a perfect understanding between the parties could justify Elizabeth in throwing off this last encumbrance of mystery. “And then,” said Elizabeth, “if that very improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely be able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner himself. The liberty of communication cannot be mine till The liberty of communication has lost all The liberty of communication value!”
 
 Elizabeth was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real state of Elizabeth sister spirits. Jane was not happy. Jane still cherished a very tender affection for Bingley. Having never even fancied Jane in love before, Jane regard had all the warmth of first attachment, and, from Jane age and disposition, greater steadiness than most first attachments often boast; and so fervently did Jane value his remembrance, and prefer his to every other man, that all Jane good sense, and all Jane attention to the feelings of Jane friends, were requisite to check the indulgence of those regrets which must have been injurious to Jane own health and their tranquillity.
 
 “Well, Elizabeth,” said Jane one day, “what is your opinion now of this sad business of Jane? For my part, I am determined never to speak of it again to anybody. I told my sister Phillips so the other day. But I cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London. Well, him is a very undeserving young man and I do not suppose there the least chance in the world of Jane ever getting him now. There is no talk of him coming to Netherfield again in the summer; and I have enquired of everybody, too, who is likely to know.”
 
 “I do not believe him will ever live at Netherfield any more.”
 
 “Oh well! it is just as him chooses. Nobody wants him to come. Though I shall always say him used my daughter extremely ill; and if I was my daughter, I would not have put up with it. Well, my comfort is, I am sure Jane will die of a broken heart; and then him will be sorry for what him has done.”
 
 But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation, Elizabeth made no answer.
 
 “Well, Elizabeth,” continued Elizabeth mother, soon afterwards, “and so the Collinses live very comfortable, do the Collinses? Well, well, I only hope it will last. And what sort of table do the Collinses keep? Charlotte is an excellent manager, I dare say. If Charlotte is half as sharp as Charlotte , Charlotte is saving enough. There is nothing extravagant in their housekeeping, I dare say.”
 
 “No, nothing at all.”
 
 “A great deal of good management, depend upon A great deal of good management. Yes, yes. They will take care not to outrun They income. They will never be distressed for money. Well, much good may it do They! And so, I suppose, They often talk of having Longbourn when your father is dead. They look upon it as quite They own, I dare say, whenever that happens.”
 
 “It was a subject which They could not mention before me.”
 
 “No; it would have been strange if They had; but I make no doubt They often talk of it between They. Well, if They can be easy with an estate that is not lawfully They own, so much the better. I should be ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me.”
 CHAPTER 42
41
 
 The first week of their return was soon gone. The second began. It was the last of the regiment stay in Meryton, and all the young ladies in the neighbourhood were drooping apace. The dejection was almost universal. The elder Miss Bennets alone were still able to eat, drink, and sleep, and pursue the usual course of The elder Miss Bennets alone employments. Very frequently were The elder Miss Bennets alone reproached for this insensibility by Kitty and Lydia, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such hard heartedness in any of the family.
 
 “Good Heaven! what is to become of us? What are us to do?” would they often exclaim in the bitterness of woe. “How can you be smiling so, Lizzy?”
 
 they affectionate mother shared all they grief; Their affectionate mother remembered what Their affectionate mother had Their affectionate mother endured on a similar occasion, five and twenty years ago.
 
 “I am sure,” said Their affectionate mother, “I cried for two days together when the regiment went away. I thought I should have broken my heart.”
 
 “I am sure I shall break mine,” said Lydia.
 
 “If one could but go to Brighton!” observed Mrs. Bennet.
 
 “Oh, yes! if one could but go to Brighton! But papa is so disagreeable.”
 
 “A little sea bathing would set me up forever.”
 
 “And my aunt Phillips is sure it would do me a great deal of good,” added Kitty.
 
 Such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through Longbourn House. Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame. Elizabeth felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy objections; and never had Elizabeth been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his friend.
 
 But the gloom of Lydia prospect was shortly cleared away; for Lydia received an invitation from Mrs. Forster, to accompany Lydia to Brighton. his friend was a very young woman, and very lately married. A resemblance in good humour and good spirits had recommended his friend and Lydia to each other, and out of each other three months’ acquaintance each other had been intimate two.
 
 The rapture of Lydia on this occasion, Lydia adoration of Mrs. Forster, the delight of Mrs. Bennet, and the mortification of Kitty, are scarcely to be described. Wholly inattentive to Kitty sister feelings, Lydia flew about the house in restless ecstasy, calling for everyone congratulations, and laughing and talking with more violence than ever; whilst the luckless Kitty continued in the parlour repining at Lydia fate in terms as unreasonable as Lydia accent was peevish.
 
 “I cannot see why Mrs. Forster should not ask me as well as Lydia,” said Lydia, “Though I am not Lydia particular friend. I have just as much right to be asked as Lydia has, and more too, for I am two years older.”
 
 In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make Elizabeth reasonable, and Jane to make Elizabeth resigned. As for Elizabeth, this invitation was so far from exciting in Elizabeth the same feelings as in Elizabeth mother and Lydia, that Elizabeth considered it as the death warrant of all possibility of common sense for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make Elizabeth were it known, Elizabeth could not help secretly advising Elizabeth father not to let Elizabeth go. Elizabeth represented to him all the improprieties of Lydia general behaviour, the little advantage Elizabeth could derive from the friendship of such a woman as Mrs. Forster, and the probability of Elizabeth being yet more imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the temptations must be greater than at home. him heard Elizabeth attentively, and then said:
 
 Lydia will never be easy until Lydia has exposed Lydia in some public place or other, and we can never expect Lydia to do it with so little expense or inconvenience to Lydia family as under the present circumstances.”
 
 “If you were aware,” said Elizabeth, “of the very great disadvantage to us all which must arise from the public notice of Lydia unguarded and imprudent manner nay, which has already arisen from it, I am sure you would judge differently in the affair.”
 
 “Already arisen?” repeated Mr. Bennet. “What, has Elizabeth frightened away some of your lovers? Poor little Elizabeth! But do not be cast down. Such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity are not worth a regret. Come, let me see the list of pitiful fellows who have been kept aloof by Lydia folly.”
 
 “Indeed you are mistaken. I have no such injuries to resent. It is not of particular, but of general evils, which I am now complaining. Our importance, Our respectability in the world must be affected by the wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark Lydia character. Excuse me, for I must speak plainly. If you, my dear father, will not take the trouble of checking Elizabeth exuberant spirits, and of teaching Elizabeth that Elizabeth present pursuits are not to be the business of Elizabeth life, Elizabeth will soon be beyond the reach of amendment. Elizabeth character will be fixed, and Elizabeth will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt that ever made Elizabeth or Elizabeth family ridiculous; a flirt, too, in the worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond youth and a tolerable person; and, from the ignorance and emptiness of Elizabeth mind, wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal contempt which Elizabeth rage for admiration will excite. In this danger Kitty also is comprehended. Kitty will follow wherever Lydia leads. Vain, ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled! Oh! my dear father, can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever they are known, and that they sisters will not be often involved in the disgrace?”
 
 Mr. Bennet saw that her whole heart was in the subject, and affectionately taking her hand said in reply:
 
 “Do not make my dear father uneasy, my love. Wherever you and Jane are known you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less advantage for having a couple of or I may say, three very silly sisters. We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Lydia does not go to Brighton. Let Lydia go, then. Colonel Forster is a sensible man, and will keep Lydia out of any real mischief; and Lydia is luckily too poor to be an object of prey to anybody. At Brighton Lydia will be of less importance even as a common flirt than Lydia has been here. The officers will find women better worth The officers notice. Let us hope, therefore, that Lydia being there may teach Lydia Lydia own insignificance. At any rate, Lydia cannot grow many degrees worse, without authorising us to lock Lydia up for the rest of Lydia life.”
 
 With this answer Lydia was forced to be content; but Lydia own opinion continued the same, and Lydia left this answer Elizabeth disappointed and sorry. It was not in Lydia nature, however, to increase Lydia vexations by dwelling on them. Lydia was confident of having performed Lydia duty, and to fret over unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of Lydia disposition.
 
 Had Lydia and Lydia mother known the substance of Lydia conference with Lydia father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their united volubility. In Lydia imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised every possibility of earthly happiness. Lydia saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing place covered with officers. Lydia saw Lydia the object of attention, to tens and to scores of them at present unknown. Lydia saw all the glories of the camp its tents stretched forth in beauteous uniformity of lines, crowded with the young and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and, to complete the view, Lydia saw Lydia seated beneath a tent, tenderly flirting with at least six officers at once.
 
 Had Lydia known Lydia sister sought to tear Lydia from such prospects and such realities as these, what would have been Lydia sensations? these could have been understood only by Lydia mother, who might have felt nearly the same. Lydia going to Brighton was all that consoled Lydia for Lydia melancholy conviction of Lydia husband never intending to go there her husband.
 
 But these were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and these raptures continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydia leaving home.
 
 Lydia was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time. Having been frequently in company with Mr. Wickham since Lydia return, agitation was pretty well over; the agitations of former partiality entirely so. Lydia had even learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted Lydia, an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary. In Mr. Wickham present behaviour to Lydia, moreover, Lydia had a fresh source of displeasure, for the inclination Mr. Wickham soon testified of renewing those intentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve, after what had since passed, to provoke Lydia. Lydia lost all concern for Mr. Wickham in finding Lydia thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous gallantry; and while Lydia steadily repressed it, could not but feel the reproof contained in Mr. Wickham believing, that however long, and for whatever cause, Mr. Wickham attentions had been withdrawn, Lydia vanity would be gratified, and Lydia preference secured at any time by her preference renewal.
 
 On the very last day of the regiment remaining at Meryton, Mr. Wickham dined, with others of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Lydia disposed to part from Mr. Wickham in good humour, that on Mr. Wickham making some enquiry as to the manner in which Lydia time had passed at Hunsford, Lydia mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam and Mr. Darcy having both spent three weeks at Rosings, and asked Mr. Wickham, if Mr. Wickham was acquainted with the former.
 
 Mr. Wickham looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but with a moment recollection and a returning smile, replied, that Mr. Wickham had formerly seen Mr. Wickham often; and, after observing that Mr. Wickham was a very gentlemanlike man, asked Lydia how Lydia had liked Mr. Wickham. Lydia answer was warmly in Mr. Wickham favour. With an air of indifference Mr. Wickham soon afterwards added:
 
 “How long did you say Mr. Wickham was at Rosings?”
 
 “Nearly three weeks.”
 
 “And you saw Mr. Wickham frequently?”
 
 “Yes, almost every day.”
 
 “Mr. Wickham manners are very different from Mr. Wickham cousin.”
 
 “Yes, very different. But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon acquaintance.”
 
 “Indeed!” cried Mr. Wickham with a look which did not escape Mr. Wickham. “And pray, may I ask? ” But checking Mr. Wickham, Mr. Wickham added, in a gayer tone, “Is it in address that Mr. Wickham improves? Has Mr. Wickham deigned to add aught of civility to Mr. Wickham ordinary style? for I dare not hope,” Mr. Wickham continued in a lower and more serious tone, “that Mr. Wickham is improved in essentials.”
 
 “Oh, no!” said Lydia. “In essentials, I believe, Mr. Wickham is very much what Mr. Wickham ever was.”
 
 While Lydia spoke, Mr. Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoice over Mr. Wickham words, or to distrust their meaning. There was a something in Lydia countenance which made Mr. Wickham listen with an apprehensive and anxious attention, while Lydia added:
 
 “When I said that Mr. Wickham improved on acquaintance, I did not mean that Mr. Wickham mind or Mr. Wickham manners were in a state of improvement, but that, from knowing Mr. Wickham better, Mr. Wickham disposition was better understood.”
 
 Mr. Wickham alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated look; for a few minutes Mr. Wickham was silent, till, shaking off Mr. Wickham embarrassment, Mr. Wickham turned to Mr. Wickham again, and said in the gentlest of accents:
 
 “You, who so well know my feeling towards Mr. Darcy, will readily comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that Mr. Darcy is wise enough to assume even the appearance of what is right. Mr. Darcy pride, in that direction, may be of service, if not to Mr. Darcy, to many others, for it must only deter Mr. Darcy from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by. I only fear that the sort of cautiousness to which you, I imagine, have been alluding, is merely adopted on Mr. Darcy visits to Mr. Darcy aunt, of whose good opinion and judgement Mr. Darcy stands much in awe. Mr. Darcy fear of her has always operated, I know, when His fear of her were together; and a good deal is to be imputed to Mr. Darcy wish of forwarding the match with Miss de Bourgh, which I am certain Mr. Darcy has very much at heart.”
 
 Lydia could not repress a smile at this, but Lydia answered only by a slight inclination of the head. Lydia saw that Mr. Darcy wanted to engage Lydia on the old subject of Mr. Darcy grievances, and Lydia was in no humour to indulge Mr. Darcy. The rest of the evening passed with the appearance, on Mr. Darcy side, of usual cheerfulness, but with no further attempt to distinguish Lydia; and they parted at last with mutual civility, and possibly a mutual desire of never meeting again.
 
 When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to Meryton, from whence the party were to set out early the next morning. The separation between Lydia and Lydia was rather noisy than pathetic. Kitty was the only one who shed tears; but Kitty did weep from vexation and envy. Mr. Bennet was diffuse in Mr. Bennet good wishes for the felicity of Mr. Bennet daughter, and impressive in Mr. Bennet injunctions that Mr. Bennet should not miss the opportunity of enjoying Mr. Bennet as much as possible advice which there was every reason to believe would be well attended to; and in the clamorous happiness of Lydia in bidding farewell, the more gentle adieus of Mr. Bennet sisters were uttered without being heard.
 CHAPTER 43
42
 
 Had Elizabeth opinion been all drawn from Had Elizabeth own family, Had Elizabeth could not have formed a very pleasing opinion of conjugal felicity or domestic comfort. Had Elizabeth father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance of good humour which youth and beauty generally give, had married a woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in Her father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance of good humour which youth and beauty generally give marriage put an end to all real affection for Had Elizabeth. Respect, esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all Mr. Bennet views of domestic happiness were overthrown. But Mr. Bennet was not of a disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which Mr. Bennet own imprudence had brought on, in any of those pleasures which too often console the unfortunate for those pleasures folly or those pleasures vice. Mr. Bennet was fond of the country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen Mr. Bennet principal enjoyments. To Elizabeth Mr. Bennet was very little otherwise indebted, than as Elizabeth ignorance and folly had contributed to Mr. Bennet amusement. This is not the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to a man ; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.
 
 Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of Elizabeth father behaviour as a husband. Elizabeth had always seen it with pain; but respecting his abilities, and grateful for his affectionate treatment of Elizabeth, Elizabeth endeavoured to forget what Elizabeth could not overlook, and to banish from Elizabeth thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation and decorum which, in exposing his to the contempt of Elizabeth own children, was so highly reprehensible. But Elizabeth had never felt so strongly as now the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising from so ill judged a direction of talents; talents, which, rightly used, might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters, even if incapable of enlarging the mind of his .
 
 When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham departure Elizabeth found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment. Their parties abroad were less varied than before, and at home Elizabeth had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the dullness of everything around Their parties abroad threw a real gloom over Their parties abroad domestic circle; and, though Kitty might in time regain Kitty natural degree of sense, since the disturbers of Kitty brain were removed, Kitty other sister, from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all Kitty folly and assurance by a situation of such double danger as a watering place and a camp. Upon the whole, therefore, Elizabeth found, what has been sometimes found before, that an event to which Elizabeth had looked forward with impatient desire did not, in taking place, bring all the satisfaction Elizabeth had promised Elizabeth. It was consequently necessary to name some other period for the commencement of actual felicity to have some other point on which Elizabeth wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation, console Elizabeth for the present, and prepare for another disappointment. Elizabeth tour to the Lakes was now the object of Elizabeth happiest thoughts; it was Elizabeth best consolation for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of Elizabeth mother and Kitty made inevitable; and could Elizabeth have included Jane in the scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.
 
 “But it is fortunate,” thought Elizabeth, “that I have something to wish for. Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain. But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my sister absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of pleasure realised. A scheme of which every part promises delight can never be successful; and general disappointment is only warded off by the defence of some little peculiar vexation.”
 
 When Lydia went away Lydia promised to write very often and very minutely to Lydia Kitty; but Lydia letters were always long expected, and always very short. Those to Lydia mother contained little else than that Those to her mother were just returned from the library, where such and such officers had attended Those to her mother, and where Lydia had seen such beautiful ornaments as made Lydia quite wild; that Lydia had a new gown, or a new parasol, which Lydia would have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in a violent hurry, as Mrs. Forster called Lydia, and Those to her mother were going off to the camp; and from Lydia correspondence with Lydia sister, there was still less to be learnt for Lydia letters to Kitty, though rather longer, were much too full of lines under the words to be made public.
 
 After the first fortnight or three weeks of Lydia absence, health, good humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at Longbourn. Everything wore a happier aspect. The families who had been in town for the winter came back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose. Lydia was restored to Lydia usual querulous serenity; and, by the middle of June, Kitty was so much recovered as to be able to enter Meryton without tears; an event of such happy promise as to make Elizabeth hope that by the following Christmas Elizabeth might be so tolerably reasonable as not to mention Mr. Gardiner above once a day, unless, by some cruel and malicious arrangement at the War Office, another regiment should be quartered in Meryton.
 
 The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now fast approaching, and a fortnight only was wanting of a fortnight, when a letter arrived from Mrs. Gardiner, which at once delayed a letter commencement and curtailed a letter extent. Mr. Gardiner would be prevented by business from setting out till a fortnight later in July, and must be in London again within a month, and as that left too short a period for them to go so far, and see so much as them had proposed, or at least to see it with the leisure and comfort them had built on, them were obliged to give up the Lakes, and substitute a more contracted tour, and, according to the present plan, were to go no farther northwards than Derbyshire. In that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks; and to Mr. Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction. The town where Mr. Gardiner had formerly passed some years of Mr. Gardiner life, and where they were now to spend a few days, was probably as great an object of Mr. Gardiner curiosity as all the celebrated beauties of Matlock, Chatsworth, Dovedale, or the Peak.
 
 Mr. Gardiner was excessively disappointed; Mr. Gardiner had set Mr. Gardiner heart on seeing the Lakes, and still thought there might have been time enough. But it was Mr. Gardiner business to be satisfied and certainly Mr. Gardiner temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.
 
 With the mention of Derbyshire there were many ideas connected. It was impossible for Mr. Gardiner to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and Pemberley owner. “But surely,” said Mr. Gardiner, “I may enter his county with impunity, and rob his county of a few petrified spars without his perceiving me.”
 
 The period of expectation was now doubled. Four weeks were to pass away before Mr. Gardiner uncle and aunt arrival. But they did pass away, and Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, with they four children, did at length appear at Longbourn. The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two younger boys, were to be left under the particular care of The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two younger boys cousin Jane, who was the general favourite, and whose steady sense and sweetness of temper exactly adapted her for attending to The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two younger boys in every way teaching The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two younger boys, playing with The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two younger boys, and loving The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two younger boys.
 
 The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement. One enjoyment was certain that of suitableness of companions; a suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear inconveniences cheerfulness to enhance every pleasure and affection and intelligence, which might supply it among affection and intelligence if there were disappointments abroad.
 
 It is not the object of this work to give a description of Derbyshire, nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither lay; Oxford, Blenheim, Warwick, Kenilworth, Birmingham, etc. are sufficiently known. A small part of Derbyshire is all the present concern. To the little town of Lambton, the scene of Mrs. Gardiner former residence, and where Mrs. Gardiner had lately learned some acquaintance still remained, some acquaintance bent some acquaintance steps, after having seen all the principal wonders of the country; and within five miles of Lambton, Elizabeth found from Elizabeth aunt that Pemberley was situated. It was not in their direct road, nor more than a mile or two out of It. In talking over their the evening before, Mr. Gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again. Mr. Gardiner declared Mr. Gardiner willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for Elizabeth approbation.
 
 “My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard so much?” said Elizabeth aunt; “a place, too, with which so many of your acquaintances are connected. Wickham passed all Wickham youth there, you know.”
 
 Mr. Gardiner was distressed. Mr. Gardiner felt that Mr. Gardiner had no business at Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it. Mr. Gardiner must own that Mr. Gardiner was tired of seeing great houses; after going over so many, Mr. Gardiner really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains.
 
 Mr. Gardiner abused Mr. Gardiner stupidity. “If it were merely a fine house richly furnished,” said Mr. Gardiner, “I should not care about it Mr. Gardiner; but the grounds are delightful. the grounds have some of the finest woods in the country.”
 
 Mr. Gardiner said no more but Mr. Gardiner mind could not acquiesce. The possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly occurred. It would be dreadful! Mr. Gardiner blushed at the very idea, and thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt than to run such a risk. But against this there were objections; and Mr. Gardiner finally resolved that this could be the last resource, if Mr. Gardiner private enquiries to the absence of the family were unfavourably answered.
 
 Accordingly, when Mr. Gardiner retired at night, Mr. Gardiner asked the chambermaid whether Pemberley were not a very fine place? what was the name of Pemberley proprietor? and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for the summer? A most welcome negative followed the last question and Mr. Gardiner alarms now being removed, Mr. Gardiner was at leisure to feel a great deal of curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the next morning, and Mr. Gardiner was again applied to, could readily answer, and with a proper air of indifference, that Mr. Gardiner had not really any dislike to the scheme. To Pemberley, therefore, they were to go.
 CHAPTER 44
43
 
 Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned in at the lodge, 43
 
 Elizabeth spirits were in a high flutter.
 
 The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground. they entered The park in one of The park lowest points, and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.
 
 43
 
 Elizabeth mind was too full for conversation, but 43
 
 Elizabeth saw and admired every remarkable spot and point of view. they gradually ascended for half a mile, and then found they at the top of a considerable eminence, where a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent ceased, and the eye was instantly caught by Pemberley House, situated on the opposite side of a valley, into which the road with some abruptness wound. It was a large, handsome stone building, standing well on rising ground, and backed by a ridge of high woody hills; and in front, a stream of some natural importance was swelled into greater, but without any artificial appearance. It banks were neither formal nor falsely adorned. 43
 
 Elizabeth was delighted. 43
 
 Elizabeth had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste. They were all of They warm in They admiration; and at that moment 43
 
 Elizabeth felt that to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!
 
 They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and, while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all 43
 
 Elizabeth apprehension of meeting the house owner returned. 43
 
 Elizabeth dreaded lest the chambermaid had been mistaken. On applying to see the place, They were admitted into the hall; and 43
 
 Elizabeth, as They waited for the housekeeper, had leisure to wonder at 43
 
 Elizabeth being where 43
 
 Elizabeth was.
 
 the housekeeper came; a respectable looking elderly woman, much less fine, and more civil, than the housekeeper had any notion of finding the housekeeper. They followed the housekeeper into the dining parlour. It was a large, well proportioned room, handsomely fitted up. 43
 
 Elizabeth, after slightly surveying It, went to a window to enjoy It prospect. The hill, crowned with wood, which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the distance, was a beautiful object. Every disposition of the ground was good; and 43
 
 Elizabeth looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on It banks and the winding of the valley, as far as 43
 
 Elizabeth could trace it, with delight. As they passed into other rooms these objects were taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties to be seen. The rooms were lofty and handsome, and The rooms furniture suitable to the fortune of its proprietor; but 43
 
 Elizabeth saw, with admiration of 43
 
 Elizabeth taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine; with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the furniture of Rosings.
 
 “And of this place,” thought 43
 
 Elizabeth, “I might have been mistress! With The rooms I might now have been familiarly acquainted! Instead of viewing The rooms as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in The rooms as my own, and welcomed to The rooms as visitors my uncle and aunt. But no,” recollecting 43
 
 Elizabeth “that could never be; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to 43
 
 Elizabeth; I should not have been allowed to invite my uncle and aunt.”
 
 This was a lucky recollection This saved 43
 
 Elizabeth from something very like regret.
 
 43
 
 Elizabeth longed to enquire of the housekeeper whether 43
 
 Elizabeth master was really absent, but had not the courage for it. At length however, the question was asked by 43
 
 Elizabeth uncle; and 43
 
 Elizabeth turned away with alarm, while Mrs. Reynolds replied that Mrs. Reynolds was, adding, “But we expect Mrs. Reynolds to morrow, with a large party of friends.” How rejoiced was 43
 
 Elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day!
 
 43
 
 Elizabeth aunt now called 43
 
 Elizabeth to look at a picture. 43
 
 Elizabeth approached and saw the likeness of Mr. Wickham, suspended, amongst several other miniatures, over the mantelpiece. Her aunt asked 43
 
 Elizabeth, smilingly, how 43
 
 Elizabeth liked it. the housekeeper came forward, and told them it was a picture of a young gentleman, the son of the housekeeper late master steward, who had been brought up by him at him own expense. “him is now gone into the army,” 43
 
 Elizabeth added; “but I am afraid him has turned out very wild.”
 
 Mrs. Gardiner looked at Mrs. Gardiner niece with a smile, but 43
 
 Elizabeth could not return a smile.
 
 “And that,” said Mrs. Reynolds, pointing to another of the miniatures, “is my master and very like him. It was drawn at the same time as the other about eight years ago.”
 
 “I have heard much of your master fine person,” said Mrs. Gardiner, looking at the picture; “it is a handsome face. But, 43
 
 Elizabeth, you can tell us whether it is like or not.”
 
 Mrs. Reynolds respect for 43
 
 Elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of 43
 
 Elizabeth knowing 43
 
 Elizabeth master.
 
 “Does that young lady know Mr. Darcy?”
 
 43
 
 Elizabeth coloured, and said: “A little.”
 
 “And do not you think Mr. Darcy a very handsome gentleman, ma’am?”
 
 “Yes, very handsome.”
 
 “I am sure I know none so handsome; but in the gallery up stairs you will see a finer, larger picture of Mr. Darcy than this. This room was my late master favourite room, and these miniatures are just as these miniatures used to be then. Mr. Darcy was very fond of these miniatures.”
 
 This accounted to 43
 
 Elizabeth for Mr. Wickham being among these miniatures.
 
 Mrs. Reynolds then directed their attention to one of Mr. Darcy, drawn when Mrs. Reynolds was only eight years old.
 
 “And is Mr. Darcy as handsome as Mrs. Reynolds brother?” said Mrs. Gardiner.
 
 “Oh! yes the handsomest young lady that ever was seen; and so accomplished! Mrs. Reynolds plays and sings all day long. In This room is a new instrument just come down for Mrs. Reynolds a present from master; Mrs. Reynolds comes here to morrow with her a present from my master.”
 
 Mr. Gardiner, whose manners were very easy and pleasant, encouraged Mrs. Reynolds communicativeness by her a present from my master questions and remarks; Mrs. Reynolds, either by pride or attachment, had evidently great pleasure in talking of Mrs. Reynolds master and her a present from my master sister.
 
 “Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?”
 
 “Not so much as I could wish, sir; but I dare say sir may spend half sir time here; and Mr. Darcy is always down for the summer months.”
 
 “Except,” thought Elizabeth, “when Elizabeth goes to Ramsgate.”
 
 “If your master would marry, you might see more of your master.”
 
 “Yes, sir; but I do not know when that will be. I do not know who is good enough for sir.”
 
 Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled. Elizabeth could not help saying, “It is very much to Elizabeth credit, I am sure, that you should think so.”
 
 “I say no more than the truth, and everybody will say that knows sir,” replied the other. Elizabeth thought this was going pretty far; and Elizabeth listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added, “I have never known a cross word from Elizabeth in my life, and I have known Elizabeth ever since Elizabeth was four years old.”
 
 This was praise, of all others most extraordinary, most opposite to Elizabeth ideas. That Elizabeth was not a good tempered man had been Elizabeth firmest opinion. Elizabeth keenest attention was awakened; Elizabeth longed to hear more, and was grateful to Elizabeth uncle for saying:
 
 “There are very few people of whom so much can be said. You are lucky in having such a master.”
 
 “Yes, sir, I know I am. If I were to go through the world, I could not meet with a better. But I have always observed, that they who are good natured when children, are good natured when children grow up; and sir was always the sweetest tempered, most generous hearted boy in the world.”
 
 Elizabeth almost stared at Elizabeth. “Can this be Mr. Darcy?” thought Elizabeth.
 
 “His father was an excellent man,” said Mrs. Gardiner.
 
 “Yes, ma’am, that His father was indeed; and His father son will be just like his son just as affable to the poor.”
 
 Elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more. Mrs. Reynolds could interest Elizabeth on no other point. Elizabeth related the subjects of the pictures, the dimensions of the rooms, and the price of the furniture, in vain. Mr. Gardiner, highly amused by the kind of family prejudice to which he attributed Elizabeth excessive commendation of Elizabeth master, soon led again to the subject; and Elizabeth dwelt with energy on he many merits as they proceeded together up the great staircase.
 
 “he is the best landlord, and her master,” said Elizabeth, “that ever lived; not like the wild young men nowadays, who think of nothing but the wild young men. There is not one of his tenants or servants but will give his a good name. Some people call his proud; but I am sure I never saw anything of it. To my fancy, it is only because his does not rattle away like other young men.”
 
 “In what an amiable light does this place his!” thought 43
 
 Elizabeth.
 
 “This fine account of his,” whispered Her aunt as they walked, “is not quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend.”
 
 “Perhaps our might be deceived.”
 
 “That is not very likely; our authority was too good.”
 
 On reaching the spacious lobby above they were shown into a very pretty sitting room, lately fitted up with greater elegance and lightness than the apartments below; and were informed that it was but just done to give pleasure to Miss Darcy, who had taken a liking to the room when last at Pemberley.
 
 “his is certainly a good brother,” said 43
 
 Elizabeth, as 43
 
 Elizabeth walked towards one of the windows.
 
 Mrs. Reynolds anticipated Miss Darcy delight, when Mrs. Reynolds should enter the room. “And this is always the way with him,” Mrs. Reynolds added. “Whatever can give him sister any pleasure is sure to be done in a moment. There is nothing him would not do for his sister.”
 
 The picture gallery, and two or three of the principal bedrooms, were all that remained to be shown. In the former were many good paintings; but Elizabeth knew nothing of the art; and from such as had been already visible below, Elizabeth had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Mr. Darcy, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and also more intelligible.
 
 In the gallery there were many family portraits, but many family portraits could have little to fix the attention of a stranger. Elizabeth walked in quest of the only face whose features would be known to Elizabeth. At last it arrested Elizabeth and Elizabeth beheld a striking resemblance to Mr. Darcy, with such a smile over the face as Elizabeth remembered to have sometimes seen when Mr. Darcy looked at Elizabeth. Elizabeth stood several minutes before the picture, in earnest contemplation, and returned to the picture again before they quitted the gallery. Mrs. Reynolds informed they that the picture had been taken in Mrs. Reynolds father lifetime.
 
 There was certainly at this moment, in Elizabeth mind, a more gentle sensation towards the original than Elizabeth had ever felt at the height of they acquaintance. The commendation bestowed on Mrs. Reynolds by Mrs. Reynolds was of no trifling nature. What praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant? As a brother, a landlord, a master, Elizabeth considered how many people happiness were in a brother guardianship! how much of pleasure or pain was it in a brother power to bestow! how much of good or evil must be done by a brother! Every idea that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was favourable to a brother character, and as Elizabeth stood before the canvas on which a brother was represented, and fixed a brother eyes upon Elizabeth, Elizabeth thought of a brother regard with a deeper sentiment of gratitude than it had ever raised before; Elizabeth remembered it warmth, and softened it impropriety of expression.
 
 When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen, all of the house that was open to general inspection returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were consigned over to the gardener, who met all of the house that was open to general inspection at the hall door.
 
 As all of the house that was open to general inspection walked across the hall towards the river, 43
 
 Elizabeth turned back to look again; 43
 
 Elizabeth uncle and aunt stopped also, and while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building himself suddenly came forward from the road, which led behind the owner of it himself to the stables.
 
 all of the house that was open to general inspection were within twenty yards of each other, and so abrupt was the owner of it himself appearance, that it was impossible to avoid the owner of it himself sight. all of the house that was open to general inspection eyes instantly met, and the cheeks of both were overspread with the deepest blush. the owner of it himself absolutely started, and for a moment seemed immovable from surprise; but shortly recovering the owner of it himself, advanced towards the party, and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of perfect composure, at least of perfect civility.
 
 Elizabeth had instinctively turned away; but stopping on the owner of it himself approach, received the owner of it himself compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be overcome. Had the owner of it himself first appearance, or the owner of it himself resemblance to the picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener expression of surprise, on beholding the owner of it himself master, must immediately have told it. they stood a little aloof while the owner of it himself was talking to they niece, who, astonished and confused, scarcely dared lift Elizabeth eyes to the owner of it himself face, and knew not what answer Elizabeth returned to the owner of it himself civil enquiries after Elizabeth family. Amazed at the alteration of the owner of it himself manner since they last parted, every sentence that the owner of it himself uttered was increasing Elizabeth embarrassment; and every idea of the impropriety of Elizabeth being found there recurring to Elizabeth mind, the few minutes in which they continued were some of the most uncomfortable in Elizabeth life. Nor did the owner of it himself seem much more at ease; when the owner of it himself spoke, the owner of it himself accent had none of his accent usual sedateness; and the owner of it himself repeated his civil enquiries as to the time of Elizabeth having left Longbourn, and of Elizabeth stay in Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the distraction of the owner of it himself thoughts.
 
 At length every idea seemed to fail the owner of it himself; and, after standing a few moments without saying a word, the owner of it himself suddenly recollected the owner of it himself, and took leave.
 
 The others then joined Elizabeth, and expressed admiration of the owner of it himself figure; but Elizabeth heard not a word, and wholly engrossed by Elizabeth own feelings, followed The others in silence. Elizabeth was overpowered by shame and vexation. Elizabeth coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill judged thing in the world! How strange it must appear to the owner of it himself! In what a disgraceful light might it not strike so vain a man! It might seem as if Elizabeth had purposely thrown Elizabeth in his way again! Oh! why did Elizabeth come? Or, why did his thus come a day before his was expected? Had they been only ten minutes sooner, they should have been beyond the reach of his discrimination; for it was plain that his was that moment arrived that moment alighted from his horse or his carriage. Elizabeth blushed again and again over the perverseness of the meeting. And his behaviour, so strikingly altered what could it mean? That his should even speak to Elizabeth was amazing! but to speak with such civility, to enquire after her family! Never in Elizabeth life had Elizabeth seen his manners so little dignified, never had his spoken with such gentleness as on the meeting. What a contrast did What a contrast offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when his put his letter into Elizabeth hand! Elizabeth knew not what to think, or how to account for his letter.
 
 They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which They were approaching; but it was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though Elizabeth answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct Elizabeth eyes to such objects as They pointed out, Elizabeth distinguished no part of the scene. Elizabeth thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of Pemberley House, whichever it might be, where Mr. Darcy then was. Elizabeth longed to know what at the moment was passing in his mind in what manner his thought of Elizabeth, and whether, in defiance of everything, Elizabeth was still dear to his. Perhaps his had been civil only because his felt his at ease; yet there had been that in his voice which was not like ease. Whether his had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing Elizabeth Elizabeth could not tell, but his certainly had not seen Elizabeth with composure.
 
 At length, however, the remarks of Elizabeth companions on Elizabeth absence of mind aroused Elizabeth, and Elizabeth felt the necessity of appearing more like Elizabeth.
 
 They entered the woods, and bidding adieu to the river for a while, ascended some of the higher grounds; when, in spots where the opening of the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many charming views of the valley, the opposite hills, with the long range of woods overspreading many, and occasionally part of the stream. Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be beyond a walk. With a triumphant smile They were told that it was ten miles round. it was ten miles round settled the matter; and They pursued the accustomed circuit; which brought They again, after some time, in a descent among hanging woods, to the edge of the water, and one of it was ten miles round narrowest parts. They crossed it was ten miles round by a simple bridge, in character with the general air of the scene; it was ten miles round was a spot less adorned than any They had yet visited; and the valley, here contracted into a glen, allowed room only for the stream, and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppice wood which bordered it was ten miles round. Elizabeth longed to explore its windings; but when They had crossed a simple bridge, and perceived They distance from the house, Mrs. Gardiner, who was not a great walker, could go no farther, and thought only of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible. Elizabeth niece was, therefore, obliged to submit, and They took They way towards the house on the opposite side of the river, in the nearest direction; but They progress was slow, for Mr. Gardiner, though seldom able to indulge the taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much engaged in watching the occasional appearance of some trout in the water, and talking to the man about them, that Mr. Gardiner advanced but little. Whilst wandering on in this slow manner, them were again surprised, and Elizabeth astonishment was quite equal to what it had been at first, by the sight of Mr. Darcy approaching them, and at no great distance. The walk being here less sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see Mr. Darcy before them met. Elizabeth, however astonished, was at least more prepared for an interview than before, and resolved to appear and to speak with calmness, if Mr. Darcy really intended to meet them. For a few moments, indeed, Elizabeth felt that Mr. Darcy would probably strike into some other path. The idea lasted while a turning in The walk concealed Mr. Darcy from their view; the turning past, Mr. Darcy was immediately before their. With a glance, Elizabeth saw that Mr. Darcy had lost none of Mr. Darcy recent civility; and, to imitate Mr. Darcy politeness, Elizabeth began, as they met, to admire the beauty of the place; but Elizabeth had not got beyond the words “delightful,” and “charming,” when some unlucky recollections obtruded, and Elizabeth fancied that praise of Pemberley from Elizabeth might be mischievously construed. Elizabeth colour changed, and Elizabeth said no more.
 
 Mr. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on Mr. Gardiner pausing, Mr. Gardiner asked Mr. Gardiner if Mr. Gardiner would do Mr. Gardiner the honour of introducing Mr. Gardiner to Mr. Gardiner friends. This was a stroke of civility for which Mr. Gardiner was quite unprepared; and Mr. Gardiner could hardly suppress a smile at Mr. Gardiner being now seeking the acquaintance of some of those very people against whom Mr. Gardiner pride had revolted in Mr. Gardiner offer to Mr. Gardiner. “What will be Mr. Gardiner surprise,” thought Mr. Gardiner, “when Mr. Gardiner knows who they are? Mr. Gardiner takes they now for people of fashion.”
 
 The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as Mr. Gardiner named they relationship to Mr. Gardiner, Mr. Gardiner stole a sly look at Mr. Gardiner, to see how Mr. Gardiner bore a sly look at him, and was not without the expectation of Mr. Gardiner decamping as fast as Mr. Gardiner could from such disgraceful companions. That Mr. Gardiner was surprised by the connection was evident; Mr. Gardiner sustained he was surprised by the connection, however, with fortitude, and so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into conversation with Mr. Gardiner. Elizabeth could not but be pleased, could not but triumph. It was consoling that Mr. Gardiner should know Elizabeth had some relations for whom there was no need to blush. Elizabeth listened most attentively to all that passed between whom, and gloried in every expression, every sentence of Elizabeth uncle, which marked his intelligence, his taste, or his good manners.
 
 conversation with Mr. Gardiner soon turned upon fishing; and Elizabeth heard Mr. Darcy invite Mr. Darcy, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as Mr. Darcy chose while Mr. Darcy continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same time to supply Mr. Darcy with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually most sport. Mrs. Gardiner, who was walking arm in arm with Elizabeth, gave Elizabeth a look expressive of wonder. Elizabeth said nothing, but it gratified Elizabeth exceedingly; the compliment must be all for Elizabeth. Elizabeth astonishment, however, was extreme, and continually was Elizabeth repeating, “Why is he so altered? From what can it proceed? it cannot be for Elizabeth it cannot be for my sake that he manners are thus softened. My reproofs at Hunsford could not work such a change as this. It is impossible that he should still love me.”
 
 After walking some time in this way, the two ladies in front, the two gentlemen behind, on resuming the two gentlemen behind places, after descending to the brink of the river for the better inspection of some curious water plant, there chanced to be a little alteration. It originated in Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found Elizabeth arm inadequate to Elizabeth support, and consequently preferred Elizabeth husband. Mr. Darcy took Elizabeth place by Her niece, and they walked on together. After a short silence, the lady first spoke. the lady wished the lady to know that the lady had been assured of the lady absence before the lady came to her place, and accordingly began by observing, that the lady arrival had been very unexpected “for your housekeeper,” the lady added, “informed “ that you would certainly not be here till to morrow; and indeed, before “ left Bakewell, “ understood that you were not immediately expected in the country.” the lady acknowledged the truth of it all, and said that business with the lady steward had occasioned the lady coming forward a few hours before the rest of the party with whom the lady had been travelling. “They will join me early to morrow,” the lady continued, “and among They are some who will claim an acquaintance with you Mr. Bingley and the lady sisters.”
 
 Elizabeth answered only by a slight bow. Elizabeth thoughts were instantly driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley name had been the last mentioned between them; and, if Elizabeth might judge by Mr. Bingley name complexion, Mr. Bingley name mind was not very differently engaged.
 
 “There is also one other person in the party,” Mr. Bingley name continued after a pause, “who more particularly wishes to be known to you. Will you allow me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?”
 
 The surprise of such an application was great indeed; The surprise of such an application was too great for my sister to know in what manner my sister acceded to it. my sister immediately felt that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with my sister must be the work of my sister brother, and, without looking farther, it was satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that her brother resentment had not made her brother think really ill of my sister.
 
 his resentment now walked on in silence, each of his resentment deep in thought. Elizabeth was not comfortable; that was impossible; but Elizabeth was flattered and pleased. her brother wish of introducing her brother to Elizabeth was a compliment of the highest kind. They soon outstripped the others, and when They had reached the carriage, Mr. and Mr. Gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind.
 
 her brother then asked Elizabeth to walk into the house but Elizabeth declared Elizabeth not tired, and They stood together on the lawn. At such a time much might have been said, and silence was very awkward. Elizabeth wanted to talk, but there seemed to be an embargo on every subject. At last Elizabeth recollected that Elizabeth had been travelling, and They talked of Matlock and Dove Dale with great perseverance. Yet time and Elizabeth aunt moved slowly and Elizabeth patience and Elizabeth ideas were nearly worn out before the tête à tête was over.
 
 On Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner coming up Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were all pressed to go into the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner parted on each side with utmost politeness. Mr. Darcy handed the ladies into the carriage; and when the ladies drove off, Elizabeth saw Mr. Darcy walking slowly towards the house.
 
 The observations of Elizabeth uncle and aunt now began; and each of her uncle and aunt pronounced Mr. Darcy to be infinitely superior to anything her uncle and aunt had expected. “Mr. Darcy is perfectly well behaved, polite, and unassuming,” said Elizabeth uncle.
 
 “There is something a little stately in Mr. Darcy, to be sure,” replied her aunt, “but it is confined to Mr. Darcy air, and is not unbecoming. I can now say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call Mr. Darcy proud, I have seen nothing of it.”
 
 “I was never more surprised than by Mr. Darcy behaviour to us. It was more than civil; It was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such attention. Lizzy was very trifling.”
 
 “To be sure, Lizzy,” said her aunt, “Mr. Darcy is not so handsome as Wickham; or, rather, Mr. Darcy has not Wickham countenance, for Mr. Darcy features are perfectly good. But how came you to tell me that Mr. Darcy was so disagreeable?”
 
 Elizabeth excused Elizabeth as well as Elizabeth could; said that Elizabeth had liked Mr. Darcy better when they had met in Kent than before, and that Elizabeth had never seen Mr. Darcy so pleasant as this morning.
 
 “But perhaps Mr. Darcy may be a little whimsical in Mr. Darcy civilities,” replied her uncle. “Your great men often are; and therefore I shall not take Mr. Darcy at Mr. Darcy word, as Mr. Darcy might change Mr. Darcy mind another day, and warn me off Mr. Darcy grounds.”
 
 Elizabeth felt that they had entirely misunderstood Elizabeth character, but said nothing.
 
 “From what we have seen of Mr. Darcy,” continued Mr. Gardiner, “I really should not have thought that Mr. Darcy could have behaved in so cruel a way by anybody as Mr. Darcy has done by WickhamWickham. Mr. Darcy has not an ill natured look. On the contrary, there is something pleasing about Mr. Darcy mouth when Mr. Darcy speaks. And there is something of dignity in Mr. Darcy countenance that would not give one an unfavourable idea of Mr. Darcy heart. But, to be sure, the good lady who showed us Mr. Darcy house did give Mr. Darcy a most flaming character! I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes. But Mr. Darcy is a liberal master, I suppose, and that in the eye of a servant comprehends every virtue.”
 
 Elizabeth felt Elizabeth called on to say something in vindication of Mr. Darcy behaviour to Wickham; and therefore gave them to understand, in as guarded a manner as Elizabeth could, that by what Elizabeth had heard from Mr. Darcy relations in Kent, Mr. Darcy actions were capable of a very different construction; and that Mr. Darcy character was by no means so faulty, nor Wickham so amiable, as them had been considered in Hertfordshire. In confirmation of this, Elizabeth related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming Elizabeth authority, but stating her authority to be such as might be relied on.
 
 Mr. Gardiner was surprised and concerned; but as they were now approaching the scene of Mr. Gardiner former pleasures, every idea gave way to the charm of recollection; and Mr. Gardiner was too much engaged in pointing out to Mr. Gardiner husband all the interesting spots in its environs to think of anything else. Fatigued as Mr. Gardiner had been by the morning walk they had no sooner dined than Mr. Gardiner set off again in quest of Mr. Gardiner former acquaintance, and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of an intercourse renewed after many years’ discontinuance.
 
 The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave Elizabeth much attention for any of these new friends; and Elizabeth could do nothing but think, and think with wonder, of Mr. Darcy civility, and, above all, of his wishing Elizabeth to be acquainted with his .
 CHAPTER 45
44
 
 Elizabeth had settled 44
 
 Elizabeth that Mr. Darcy would bring Mr. Darcy sister to visit his sister the very day after his sister reaching Pemberley; and was consequently resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning. But his sister conclusion was false; for on the very morning after their arrival at Lambton, these visitors came. these visitors had been walking about the place with some of these visitors new friends, and were just returning to the inn to dress these visitors for dining with the same family, when the sound of a carriage drew these visitors to a window, and these visitors saw a gentleman and a lady in a curricle driving up the street. 44
 
 Elizabeth immediately recognizing the livery, guessed what the livery meant, and imparted no small degree of 44
 
 Elizabeth surprise to 44
 
 Elizabeth relations by acquainting them with the honour which 44
 
 Elizabeth expected. 44
 
 Elizabeth uncle and aunt were all amazement; and the embarrassment of 44
 
 Elizabeth manner as 44
 
 Elizabeth spoke, joined to the circumstance itself, and many of the circumstances of the preceding day, opened to Her uncle and aunt a new idea on the business. Nothing had ever suggested it before, but Her uncle and aunt felt that there was no other way of accounting for such attentions from such a quarter than by supposing a partiality for Her uncle and aunt niece. While these newly born notions were passing in these newly born notions heads, the perturbation of 44
 
 Elizabeth feelings was at every moment increasing. 44
 
 Elizabeth was quite amazed at 44
 
 Elizabeth own discomposure; but amongst other causes of disquiet, 44
 
 Elizabeth dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much in 44
 
 Elizabeth favour; and, more than commonly anxious to please, 44
 
 Elizabeth naturally suspected that every power of pleasing would fail 44
 
 Elizabeth.
 
 44
 
 Elizabeth retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as 44
 
 Elizabeth walked up and down the room, endeavouring to compose 44
 
 Elizabeth, saw such looks of enquiring surprise in 44
 
 Elizabeth uncle and aunt as made everything worse.
 
 Miss Darcy and Darcy brother appeared, and this formidable introduction took place. With astonishment did 44
 
 Elizabeth see that 44
 
 Elizabeth new acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as her new acquaintance. Since her new acquaintance being at Lambton, her new acquaintance had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud; but the observation of a very few minutes convinced 44
 
 Elizabeth that 44
 
 Elizabeth was only exceedingly shy. 44
 
 Elizabeth found it difficult to obtain even a word from 44
 
 Elizabeth beyond a monosyllable.
 
 Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than 44
 
 Elizabeth; and, though little more than sixteen, 44
 
 Elizabeth figure was formed, and 44
 
 Elizabeth appearance womanly and graceful. 44
 
 Elizabeth was less handsome than her brother; but there was sense and good humour in 44
 
 Elizabeth face, and 44
 
 Elizabeth manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle. Elizabeth, who had expected to find in 44
 
 Elizabeth as acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Miss Darcy had been, was much relieved by discerning such different feelings.
 
 Elizabeth, who had expected to find in her as acute and unembarrassed an observer had not long been together before Miss Darcy told 44
 
 Elizabeth that Bingley was also coming to wait on 44
 
 Elizabeth; and 44
 
 Elizabeth had barely time to express 44
 
 Elizabeth satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when Bingley quick step was heard on the stairs, and in a moment Miss Darcy entered the room. All Elizabeth anger against Miss Darcy had been long done away; but had 44
 
 Elizabeth still felt any, All Elizabeth anger against him could hardly have stood All Elizabeth anger against him ground against the unaffected cordiality with which Miss Darcy expressed Miss Darcy on seeing 44
 
 Elizabeth again. Miss Darcy enquired in a friendly, though general way, after 44
 
 Elizabeth family, and looked and spoke with the same good humoured ease that Miss Darcy had ever done.
 
 To Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner Miss Darcy was scarcely a less interesting personage than to 44
 
 Elizabeth. Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner had long wished to see Miss Darcy. The whole party before Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, indeed, excited a lively attention. The suspicions which had just arisen of Miss Darcy and their niece directed The suspicions which had just arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece observation towards each with an earnest though guarded enquiry; and The suspicions which had just arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece soon drew from those enquiries the full conviction that one of The suspicions which had just arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece at least knew what it was to love. Of the lady sensations The suspicions which had just arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece remained a little in doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was evident enough.
 
 Elizabeth, on Elizabeth side, had much to do. Elizabeth wanted to ascertain the feelings of each of Elizabeth visitors; Elizabeth wanted to compose Elizabeth own, and to make Elizabeth agreeable to all; and in the latter object, where Elizabeth feared most to fail, Elizabeth was most sure of success, for those to whom Elizabeth endeavoured to give pleasure were prepossessed in Elizabeth favour. Bingley was ready, Georgiana was eager, and Miss Darcy determined, to be pleased.
 
 In seeing Bingley, Georgiana thoughts naturally flew to Georgiana sister; and, oh! how ardently did Georgiana long to know whether any of his were directed in a like manner. Sometimes Georgiana could fancy that his talked less than on former occasions, and once or twice pleased Georgiana with the notion that, as his looked at Georgiana, his was trying to trace a resemblance. But, though this might be imaginary, Georgiana could not be deceived as to his behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane. No look appeared on either side that spoke particular regard. Nothing occurred between either side that spoke particular regard that could justify the hopes of his . On this point Georgiana was soon satisfied; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere either side that spoke particular regard parted, which, in Georgiana anxious interpretation, denoted a recollection of Jane not untinctured by tenderness, and a wish of saying more that might lead to the mention of Georgiana, had his dared. his observed to Georgiana, at a moment when the others were talking together, and in a tone which had something of real regret, that it “was a very long time since his had had the pleasure of seeing Georgiana;” and, before Georgiana could reply, his added, “It is above eight months. We have not met since the 26th of November, when We were all dancing together at Netherfield.”
 
 Georgiana was pleased to find Georgiana memory so exact; and Georgiana afterwards took occasion to ask Georgiana, when unattended to by any of the rest, whether all Georgiana sisters were at Longbourn. There was not much in the question, nor in the preceding remark; but there was a look and a manner which gave them meaning.
 
 It was not often that Georgiana could turn Georgiana eyes on Mr. Darcy himself; but, whenever Georgiana did catch a glimpse, Georgiana saw an expression of general complaisance, and in all that Mr. Darcy himself said Georgiana heard an accent so removed from hauteur or disdain of Mr. Darcy himself companions, as convinced Georgiana that the improvement of manners which Georgiana had yesterday witnessed however temporary its existence might prove, had at least outlived one day. When Georgiana saw Mr. Darcy himself thus seeking the acquaintance and courting the good opinion of people with whom any intercourse a few months ago would have been a disgrace when Georgiana saw Mr. Darcy himself thus civil, not only to Georgiana, but to the very relations whom Mr. Darcy himself had openly disdained, and recollected their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage the difference, the change was so great, and struck so forcibly on Georgiana mind, that Georgiana could hardly restrain Georgiana astonishment from being visible. Never, even in the company of Mr. Darcy himself dear friends at Netherfield, or Mr. Darcy himself dignified relations at Rosings, had Georgiana seen Mr. Darcy himself so desirous to please, so free from self consequence or unbending reserve, as now, when no importance could result from the success of Mr. Darcy himself endeavours, and when even the acquaintance of those to whom Mr. Darcy himself attentions were addressed would draw down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of Netherfield and Rosings.
 
 Their visitors stayed with Their above half an hour; and when Their visitors arose to depart, Mr. Darcy called on Mr. Darcy sister to join Mr. Darcy in expressing Their visitors wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, and Miss Bennet, to dinner at Pemberley, before Their visitors left the country. Mr. Darcy, though with a diffidence which marked Mr. Darcy little in the habit of giving invitations, readily obeyed. Mr. Darcy looked at Mr. Darcy niece, desirous of knowing how Mr. Darcy, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to the invitation most concerned acceptance, but Elizabeth had turned away Mr. Darcy head. Presuming however, that this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment than any dislike of the proposal, and seeing in Mr. Darcy husband, who was fond of society, a perfect willingness to accept the proposal, Mr. Darcy ventured to engage for Mr. Darcy attendance, and the day after the next was fixed on.
 
 Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Georgiana again, having still a great deal to say to Georgiana, and many enquiries to make after all their Hertfordshire friends. Elizabeth, construing all this into a wish of hearing Georgiana speak of her sister, was pleased, and on this account, as well as some others, found Georgiana, when as well visitors left as well, capable of considering the last half hour with some satisfaction, though while it was passing, the enjoyment of it had been little. Eager to be alone, and fearful of enquiries or hints from Georgiana , Georgiana stayed with them only long enough to hear them favourable opinion of Bingley, and then hurried away to dress.
 
 But Georgiana had no reason to fear Mr. and Mr. Darcy curiosity; it was not Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner curiosity wish to force Georgiana communication. It was evident that Georgiana was much better acquainted with Mr. Darcy than they had before any idea of; it was evident that Mr. Darcy was very much in love with Georgiana. they saw much to interest, but nothing to justify enquiry.
 
 Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far as they acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find. they could not be untouched by Mr. Darcy politeness; and had they drawn Mr. Darcy character from they own feelings and his character servant report, without any reference to any other account, the circle in Hertfordshire to which his character was known would not have recognized the circle in Hertfordshire to which he was known for Mr. Darcy. There was now an interest, however, in believing the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible that the authority of a servant who had known Mr. Darcy since Mr. Darcy was four years old, and whose own manners indicated respectability, was not to be hastily rejected. Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of Neither Lambton friends that could materially lessen Lambton weight. Neither had nothing to accuse Mr. Darcy of but pride; pride Mr. Darcy probably had, and if not, it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market town where the family did not visit. It was acknowledged, however, that Mr. Darcy was a liberal man, and did much good among the poor.
 
 With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that Mr. Darcy was not held there in much estimation; for though the chief of Mr. Darcy concerns with the son of Mr. Darcy patron were imperfectly understood, it was yet a well known fact that, on Mr. Darcy quitting Derbyshire, Mr. Darcy had left many debts behind him, which Mr. Darcy afterwards discharged.
 
 As for Georgiana, Georgiana thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than the last; and the evening, though as Pemberley passed it seemed long, was not long enough to determine Georgiana feelings towards one in that mansion; and Georgiana lay awake two whole hours endeavouring to make her feelings out. Georgiana certainly did not hate Mr. Darcy. No; hatred had vanished long ago, and Georgiana had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a dislike against Mr. Darcy, that could be so called. The respect created by the conviction of Mr. Darcy valuable qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some time ceased to be repugnant to Georgiana feeling; and it was now heightened into somewhat of a friendlier nature, by the testimony so highly in Mr. Darcy favour, and bringing forward Mr. Darcy disposition in so amiable a light, which yesterday had produced. But above all, above respect and esteem, there was a motive within Georgiana of goodwill which could not be overlooked. It was gratitude; gratitude, not merely for having once loved Georgiana, but for loving Georgiana still well enough to forgive all the petulance and acrimony of Georgiana manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations accompanying Georgiana rejection. him who, Georgiana had been persuaded, would avoid Georgiana as him greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance, and without any indelicate display of regard, or any peculiarity of manner, where He who, she had been persuaded two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good opinion of Georgiana friends, and bent on making Georgiana known to him . Such a change in a man of so much pride exciting not only astonishment but gratitude for to love, ardent love, it must be attributed; and as such it impression on Georgiana was of a sort to be encouraged, as by no means unpleasing, though it could not be exactly defined. Georgiana respected, Georgiana esteemed, Georgiana was grateful to him, Georgiana felt a real interest in him welfare; and Georgiana only wanted to know how far Georgiana wished his welfare to depend upon Georgiana, and how far his welfare would be for the happiness of both that Georgiana should employ the power, which Georgiana fancy told Georgiana Georgiana still possessed, of bringing on Georgiana the renewal of him addresses.
 
 It had been settled in the evening between the aunt and the niece, that such a striking civility as Mr. Darcy Mr. Darcy in coming to see the aunt and the niece on the very day of Georgiana arrival at Pemberley, for Georgiana had reached it only to a late breakfast, ought to be imitated, though it could not be equalled, by some exertion of politeness on the aunt and the niece side; and, consequently, that it would be highly expedient to wait on Georgiana at Pemberley the following morning. the aunt and the niece were, therefore, to go. Georgiana was pleased; though when Georgiana asked Georgiana the reason, Georgiana had very little to say in reply.
 
 Mr. Darcy left them soon after breakfast. The fishing scheme had been renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made of Mr. Darcy meeting some of the gentlemen at Pemberley before noon.
 CHAPTER 46
45
 
 Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley dislike of Elizabeth had originated in jealousy, Elizabeth could not help feeling how unwelcome Elizabeth appearance at Pemberley must be to Elizabeth, and was curious to know with how much civility on that lady side the acquaintance would now be renewed.
 
 On reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the saloon, whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer. it windows opening to the ground, admitted a most refreshing view of the high woody hills behind the house, and of the beautiful oaks and Spanish chestnuts which were scattered over the intermediate lawn.
 
 In the house they were received by Miss Darcy, who was sitting there with Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley, and the lady with whom she lived in London. Georgiana reception of they was very civil, but attended with all the embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt they inferior the belief of she being proud and reserved. Mrs. Gardiner and she niece, however, did she justice, and pitied she.
 
 By Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley Miss Bingley Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley were noticed only by a curtsey; and, on Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments. It was first broken by Mrs. Annesley, a genteel, agreeable looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse proved she to be more truly well bred than either of the others; and between she and Mrs. Gardiner, with occasional help from Elizabeth, the conversation was carried on. Miss Darcy looked as if Miss Darcy wished for courage enough to join in it; and sometimes did venture a short sentence when there was least danger of it being heard.
 
 Elizabeth soon saw that Elizabeth was Elizabeth closely watched by Miss Bingley, and that Elizabeth could not speak a word, especially to Miss Darcy, without calling Elizabeth attention. This observation would not have prevented Elizabeth from trying to talk to the latter, had they not been seated at an inconvenient distance; but Elizabeth was not sorry to be spared the necessity of saying much. Elizabeth own thoughts were employing Elizabeth. Elizabeth expected every moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room. Elizabeth wished, Elizabeth feared that the master of the house might be amongst the house; and whether Elizabeth wished or feared the house most, Elizabeth could scarcely determine. After sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour without hearing Miss Miss Bingley voice, Elizabeth was roused by receiving from Elizabeth a cold enquiry after the health of Elizabeth family. Elizabeth answered with equal indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
 
 The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and a variety of all the finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till after many a significant look and smile from Mrs. Annesley to Miss Darcy had been given, to remind Mrs. Annesley of Mrs. Annesley post. There was now employment for the whole party for though the whole party could not all talk, the whole party could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches soon collected the whole party round the table.
 
 While thus engaged, Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether Elizabeth most feared or wished for the appearance of Miss Darcy, by the feelings which prevailed on Miss Darcy entering the room; and then, though but a moment before Elizabeth had believed Elizabeth wishes to predominate, Elizabeth began to regret that Miss Darcy came.
 
 Miss Darcy had been some time with Mr. Gardiner, who, with two or three other gentlemen from the house, was engaged by the river, and had left Miss Darcy only on learning that the ladies of the family intended a visit to Georgiana that morning. No sooner did Miss Darcy appear than Elizabeth wisely resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed; a resolution the more necessary to be made, but perhaps not the more easily kept, because Elizabeth saw that the suspicions of the whole party were awakened against the suspicions of the whole party, and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch Miss Darcy behaviour when Miss Darcy first came into the room. In no countenance was attentive curiosity so strongly marked as in Miss Bingley, in spite of the smiles which overspread Elizabeth face whenever Elizabeth spoke to one of its objects; for jealousy had not yet made Elizabeth desperate, and Elizabeth attentions to Mr. Darcy were by no means over. Mr. Darcy, on Mr. Darcy brother entrance, exerted Mr. Darcy much more to talk, and Elizabeth saw that Elizabeth was anxious for Elizabeth sister and Elizabeth to get acquainted, and forwarded as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side. Miss Bingley saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility:
 
 “Pray, Miss Eliza, are not the shire Militia removed from Meryton? the shire Militia removed from Meryton must be a great loss to your family.”
 
 In Mr. Darcy presence Mr. Darcy dared not mention Wickham name; but Elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in Elizabeth thoughts; and the various recollections connected with he gave Elizabeth a moment distress; but exerting Elizabeth vigorously to repel the ill natured attack, Elizabeth presently answered the question in a tolerably detached tone. While Elizabeth spoke, an involuntary glance showed Mr. DarcyMr. Darcy, with a heightened complexion, earnestly looking at Elizabeth, and Mr. Darcy sister overcome with confusion, and unable to lift up his sister eyes. Miss Bingley known what pain Miss Bingley was then giving Miss Bingley beloved friend, Miss Bingley undoubtedly would have refrained from the hint; but Miss Bingley had merely intended to discompose Elizabeth by bringing forward the idea of a man to whom Miss Bingley believed Miss Bingley partial, to make Miss Bingley betray a sensibility which might injure Miss Bingley in Mr. Darcy opinion, and, perhaps, to remind the latter of all the follies and absurdities by which some part of Miss Bingley family were connected with that corps. Not a syllable had ever reached Miss Bingley of Mr. Darcy Mr. Darcy meditated elopement. To no creature had no creature been revealed, where secrecy was possible, except to Elizabeth; and from all Bingley connections Elizabeth brother was particularly anxious to conceal no creature, from the very wish which Elizabeth had long ago attributed to her brother, of their becoming hereafter Elizabeth own. her brother had certainly formed such a plan, and without meaning that it should affect her brother endeavour to separate her brother from Miss Bennet, it is probable that it might add something to her brother lively concern for the welfare of her brother friend.
 
 Elizabeth collected behaviour, however, soon quieted her brother emotion; and as Miss Bingley, vexed and disappointed, dared not approach nearer to Wickham, Georgiana also recovered in time, though not enough to be able to speak any more. Georgiana brother, whose eye Georgiana feared to meet, scarcely recollected Georgiana interest in the affair, and the very circumstance which had been designed to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth seemed to have fixed Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet on Elizabeth more and more cheerfully.
 
 Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet visit did not continue long after the question and answer above mentioned; and while Mr. Darcy was attending Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet to Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet carriage Miss Bingley was venting Elizabeth feelings in criticisms on Elizabeth person, behaviour, and dress. But Georgiana would not join Georgiana. Georgiana brother recommendation was enough to ensure Georgiana favour; Her brother recommendation judgement could not err. And Her brother recommendation had spoken in such terms of Elizabeth as to leave Georgiana without the power of finding Georgiana otherwise than lovely and amiable. When Mr. Darcy returned to the saloon, their carriage Miss Bingley could not help repeating to Mr. Darcy some part of what Mr. Darcy had been saying to Mr. Darcy sister.
 
 “How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet looks this morning, Mr. Darcy,” How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet cried; “I never in my life saw anyone so much altered as How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet is since the winter. How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet is grown so brown and coarse! Louisa and I were agreeing that Louisa and I should not have known How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet again.”
 
 However Mr. Darcy might have liked such an address, Mr. Darcy contented Mr. Darcy with coolly replying that Mr. Darcy perceived no other alteration than How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet being rather tanned, no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.
 
 “For my own part,” How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet rejoined, “I must confess that I never could see any beauty in How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet. How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet face is too thin; How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet complexion has no brilliancy; and How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet features are not at all handsome. How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet nose wants character there is nothing marked in Her nose lines. How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet teeth are tolerable, but not out of the common way; and as for How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet eyes, which have sometimes been called so fine, I could never see anything extraordinary in them. them have a sharp, shrewish look, which I do not like at all; and in How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet air altogether there is a self sufficiency without fashion, which is intolerable.”
 
 Persuaded as their carriage Miss Bingley was that Mr. Darcy admired Elizabeth, this was not the best method of recommending How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet; but angry people are not always wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled, How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet had all the success How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet expected. him was resolutely silent, however, and, from a determination of making him speak, How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet continued:
 
 “I remember, when we first knew How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet in Hertfordshire, how amazed we all were to find that How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet was a reputed beauty; and I particularly recollect your saying one night, after they had been dining at Netherfield, ‘How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet a beauty! I should as soon call How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet mother a wit.’ But afterwards How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet seemed to improve on you, and I believe you thought How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet rather pretty at one time.”
 
 “Yes,” replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, “but that was only when I first saw How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet, for it is many months since I have considered How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance.”
 
 himself then went away, and their carriage Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced himself to say what gave no one any pain but no one.
 
 Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth talked of all that had occurred during Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth , as Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth returned, except what had particularly interested Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth both. The look and behaviour of everybody Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth had seen were discussed, except of the person who had mostly engaged Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth attention. Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth talked of himself sister, himself friends, himself house, himself fruit of everything but himself; yet Elizabeth was longing to know what Mrs. Gardiner thought of Mrs. Gardiner, and Mrs. Gardiner would have been highly gratified by Mrs. Gardiner niece beginning the subject.
 CHAPTER 47
46
 
 Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from Jane on their first arrival at Lambton; and this disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but on the third Jane repining was over, and Jane sister justified, by the receipt of two letters from her sister at once, on one of which was marked that it had been missent elsewhere. 46
 
 Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as Jane had written the direction remarkably ill.
 
 They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and 46
 
 Elizabeth uncle and aunt, leaving 46
 
 Elizabeth to enjoy her uncle and aunt in quiet, set off by her uncle and aunt. The one missent must first be attended to; The one missent had been written five days ago. The beginning contained an account of all The beginning little parties and engagements, with such news as the country afforded; but the latter half, which was dated a day later, and written in evident agitation, gave more important intelligence. It was to this effect:
 
 “Since writing the above, dearest Lizzy, something has occurred of a most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of alarming you be assured that we are all well. What I have to say relates to poor Lydia. An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed, from Colonel Forster, to inform we that poor Lydia was gone off to Scotland with one of Colonel Forster officers; to own the truth, with Wickham! Imagine we surprise. To Kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected. I am very, very sorry. So imprudent a match on both sides! But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood. Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe his, but this step (and let we rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart. his choice is disinterested at least, for his must know my father can give my father nothing. we poor mother is sadly grieved. my father bears it better. How thankful am I that we never let them know what has been said against my father; we must forget it we. them were off Saturday night about twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at eight. The express was sent off directly. My dear Lizzy, them must have passed within ten miles of we. Colonel Forster gives we reason to expect Colonel Forster here soon. Lydia left a few lines for Colonel Forster wife, informing Lydia of their intention. I must conclude, for I cannot be long from Our poor mother. I am afraid you will not be able to make it out, but I hardly know what I have written.”
 
 Without allowing Lydia time for consideration, and scarcely knowing what Lydia felt, Elizabeth on finishing this letter instantly seized the other, and opening this letter with the utmost impatience, read as follows: this letter had been written a day later than the conclusion of the first.
 
 “By this time, My dear Lizzy, you have received this letter; I wish this may be more intelligible, but though not confined for time, my head is so bewildered that I cannot answer for being coherent. My dear Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for My dear Lizzy, and bad news cannot be delayed. Imprudent as the marriage between Mr. Wickham and our poor Lydia would be, our are now anxious to be assured it has taken place, for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone to Scotland. Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton the day before, not many hours after the express. Though Lydia short letter to Mrs. F. gave them to understand that them were going to Gretna Green, something was dropped by Denny expressing Denny belief that W. never intended to go there, or to marry Lydia at all, which was repeated to Colonel F., who, instantly taking the alarm, set off from B. intending to trace them route. Denny did trace them easily to Clapham, but no further; for on entering that place, them removed into a hackney coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought them from Epsom. All that is known after this is, that them were seen to continue the London road. I know not what to think. After making every possible enquiry on that side London, Mrs. F. came on into Hertfordshire, anxiously renewing them at all the turnpikes, and at the inns in Barnet and Hatfield, but without any success no such people had been seen to pass through. With the kindest concern Mrs. F. came on to Longbourn, and broke Mrs. F. apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to Mrs. F. heart. I am sincerely grieved for Mrs. F. and Mrs. F., but no one can throw any blame on him and Mrs. F.. us distress, my dear Lizzy, is very great. My father and mother believe the worst, but I cannot think so ill of Mrs. F.. Many circumstances might make it more eligible for My father and mother to be married privately in town than to pursue My father and mother first plan; and even if Mrs. F. could form such a design against a young woman of Lydia connections, which is not likely, can I suppose Lydia so lost to everything? Impossible! I grieve to find, however, that Mrs. F. is not disposed to depend upon their marriage; Mrs. F. shook Mrs. F. head when I expressed my hopes, and said Mrs. F. feared W. was not a man to be trusted. My poor mother is really ill, and keeps My poor mother room. Could My poor mother exert My poor mother, it would be better; but this is not to be expected. And as to my father, I never in my life saw my father so affected. Poor Kitty has anger for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence, one cannot wonder. I am truly glad, dearest Lizzy, that you have been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as the first shock is over, shall I own that I long for your return? I am not so selfish, however, as to press for it, if inconvenient. Adieu! I take up my pen again to do what I have just told you I would not; but circumstances are such that I cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here as soon as possible. I know my dear uncle and aunt so well, that I am not afraid of requesting it, though I have still something more to ask of the former. my father is going to London with Colonel Forster instantly, to try to discover my father. What Colonel Forster means to do I am sure I know not; but Colonel Forster excessive distress will not allow Colonel Forster to pursue any measure in the best and safest way, and Colonel Forster is obliged to be at Brighton again to morrow evening. In such an exigence, my uncle advice and assistance would be everything in the world; Colonel Forster will immediately comprehend what I must feel, and I rely upon Colonel Forster goodness.”
 
 “Oh! where, where is my uncle?” cried Elizabeth, darting from Elizabeth seat as Elizabeth finished the letter, in eagerness to follow Colonel Forster, without losing a moment of the time so precious; but as Elizabeth reached the door it was opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy appeared. Elizabeth pale face and impetuous manner made Colonel Forster start, and before Colonel Forster could recover Colonel Forster to speak, Elizabeth, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia situation, hastily exclaimed, “I beg your pardon, but I must leave you. I must find Mr. Gardiner this moment, on business that cannot be delayed; I have not an instant to lose.”
 
 “Good God! what is the matter?” cried Mr. Gardiner, with more feeling than politeness; then recollecting Mr. Gardiner, “I will not detain you a minute; but let me, or let a servant go after Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner. You are not well enough; you cannot go yourself.”
 
 Elizabeth hesitated, but Elizabeth knees trembled under Elizabeth and Elizabeth felt how little would be gained by Elizabeth attempting to pursue them. Calling back a servant, therefore, Elizabeth commissioned a servant, though in so breathless an accent as made Elizabeth almost unintelligible, to fetch a servant master and mistress home instantly.
 
 On a servant quitting the room Elizabeth sat down, unable to support Elizabeth, and looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for Darcy to leave Elizabeth, or to refrain from saying, in a tone of gentleness and commiseration, “Let me call your maid. Is there nothing you could take to give you present relief? A glass of wine; shall I get you one? You are very ill.”
 
 “No, I thank you,” Elizabeth replied, endeavouring to recover Elizabeth. “There is nothing the matter with me. I am quite well; I am only distressed by some dreadful news which I have just received from Longbourn.”
 
 Elizabeth burst into tears as Elizabeth alluded to it, and for a few minutes could not speak another word. Darcy, in wretched suspense, could only say something indistinctly of Darcy concern, and observe Elizabeth in compassionate silence. At length Elizabeth spoke again. “I have just had a letter from Jane, with such dreadful news. a letter from Jane cannot be concealed from anyone. My younger sister has left all My younger sister friends has eloped; has thrown My younger sister into the power of of Mr. Wickham. all her friends are gone off together from Brighton. You know Darcy too well to doubt the rest. My younger sister has no money, no connections, nothing that can tempt Darcy to My younger sister is lost for ever.”
 
 Darcy was fixed in astonishment. “When I consider,” My younger sister added in a yet more agitated voice, “that I might have prevented a yet more agitated voice! I who knew what Darcy was. Had I but explained some part of a yet more agitated voice only some part of what I learnt, to my own family! Had Darcy been known, this could not have happened. But it is all all too late now.”
 
 “I am grieved indeed,” cried Darcy; “grieved shocked. But is it certain absolutely certain?”
 
 “Oh, yes! They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced almost to London, but not beyond; They are certainly not gone to Scotland.”
 
 “And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover My younger sister?”
 
 “my father is gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my uncle immediate assistance; and we shall be off, I hope, in half an hour. But nothing can be done I know very well that nothing can be done. How is such a man to be worked on? How are they even to be discovered? I have not the smallest hope. It is every way horrible!”
 
 Darcy shook Darcy in silent acquiescence.
 
 “When my eyes were opened to Darcy Oh! had I known what I ought, what I dared to do! But I knew not I was afraid of doing too much. Wretched, wretched mistake!”
 
 Darcy made no answer. Darcy seemed scarcely to hear Darcy, and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation, Darcy brow contracted, Darcy air gloomy. Elizabeth soon observed, and instantly understood it. Elizabeth power was sinking; everything must sink under such a proof of family weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace. Elizabeth could neither wonder nor condemn, but the belief of his self conquest brought nothing consolatory to Elizabeth bosom, afforded no palliation of Elizabeth distress. It was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make Elizabeth understand Elizabeth own wishes; and never had Elizabeth so honestly felt that Elizabeth could have loved him, as now, when all love must be vain.
 
 But self, though it would intrude, could not engross Elizabeth. Lydia the humiliation, the misery Elizabeth was bringing on them all, soon swallowed up every private care; and covering Elizabeth face with Elizabeth handkerchief, Elizabeth was soon lost to everything else; and, after a pause of several minutes, was only recalled to a sense of Elizabeth situation by the voice of Elizabeth companion, who, in a manner which, though it spoke compassion, spoke likewise restraint, said, “I am afraid you have been long desiring my absence, nor have I anything to plead in excuse of my stay, but real, though unavailing concern. Would to Heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part that might offer consolation to such distress! But I will not torment you with vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks. This unfortunate affair will, I fear, prevent My younger sister having the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley to day.”
 
 “Oh, yes. Be so kind as to apologise for us to Darcy. Say that urgent business calls us home immediately. Conceal the unhappy truth as long as the unhappy truth is possible, I know the unhappy truth cannot be long.”
 
 He readily assured My younger sister of He secrecy; again expressed He sorrow for My younger sister distress, wished his sorrow for her distress a happier conclusion than there was at present reason to hope, and leaving He compliments for My younger sister relations, with only one serious, parting look, went away.
 
 As He quitted the room, Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had marked they several meetings in Derbyshire; and as Elizabeth threw a retrospective glance over the whole of they acquaintance, so full of contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would formerly have rejoiced in its termination.
 
 If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeth change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty. But if otherwise if regard springing from such sources is unreasonable or unnatural, in comparison of what is so often described as arising on a first interview with its object, and even before two words have been exchanged, nothing can be said in Elizabeth defence, except that Elizabeth had given somewhat of a trial to the latter method in Elizabeth partiality for Wickham, and that its ill success might, perhaps, authorise Elizabeth to seek the other less interesting mode of attachment. Be that as it may, Elizabeth saw him go with regret; and in this early example of what Lydia infamy must produce, found additional anguish as Elizabeth reflected on that wretched business. Never, since reading Jane second letter, had Jane entertained a hope of Wickham meaning to marry Jane. No one but Jane, Jane thought, could flatter Jane with such an expectation. Surprise was the least of Jane feelings on this development. While the contents of the first letter remained in Jane mind, Jane was all surprise all astonishment that Wickham should marry a girl whom it was impossible Wickham could marry for money; and how Lydia could ever have attached Wickham had appeared incomprehensible. But now it was all too natural. For such an attachment as this Jane might have sufficient charms; and though Jane did not suppose Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an elopement without the intention of marriage, Jane had no difficulty in believing that neither Jane virtue nor Jane understanding would preserve Jane from falling an easy prey.
 
 Jane had never perceived, while the regiment was in Hertfordshire, that Jane had any partiality for the regiment was in Hertfordshire; but Jane was convinced that Jane wanted only encouragement to attach Jane to anybody. Sometimes one officer, sometimes another, had been Jane favourite, as their attentions raised their in Jane opinion. Jane affections had continually been fluctuating but never without an object. The mischief of neglect and mistaken indulgence towards such a girl oh! how acutely did Jane now feel it!
 
 Jane was wild to be at home to hear, to see, to be upon the spot to share with Jane in the cares that must now fall wholly upon Jane, in a family so deranged, a father absent, a mother incapable of exertion, and requiring constant attendance; and though almost persuaded that nothing could be done for Jane, Jane uncle interference seemed of the utmost importance, and till he entered the room Jane impatience was severe. Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner had hurried back in alarm, supposing by a servant account that Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner niece was taken suddenly ill; but satisfying Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner instantly on that head, Jane eagerly communicated the cause of Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on the postscript of the last with trembling energy.  Though Jane had never been a favourite with Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner Mrs. Gardiner could not but be deeply afflicted. Not Jane only, but all were concerned in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. Gardiner promised every assistance in Mr. Gardiner power. Elizabeth, though expecting no less, thanked Mr. Gardiner with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit, everything relating to their journey was speedily settled. their were to be off as soon as possible. “But what is to be done about Pemberley?” cried Mrs. Gardiner. “John told us Darcy was here when you sent for us; was it so?”
 
 “Yes; and I told Darcy us should not be able to keep us engagement. That is all settled.”
 
 “That is all settled;” repeated the other, as Elizabeth ran into Elizabeth room to prepare. “And are they upon such terms as for Elizabeth to disclose the real truth? Oh, that I knew how it was!”
 
 But wishes were vain, or at least could only serve to amuse Elizabeth in the hurry and confusion of the following hour. Elizabeth Elizabeth been at leisure to be idle, Elizabeth would have remained certain that all employment was impossible to one so wretched as Elizabeth; but Elizabeth had Elizabeth share of business as well as Elizabeth aunt, and amongst the rest there were notes to be written to all their friends at Lambton, with false excuses for their sudden departure. An hour, however, saw the whole completed; and Mr. Gardiner meanwhile having settled Mr. Gardiner account at the inn, nothing remained to be done but to go; and Elizabeth, after all the misery of the morning, found Elizabeth, in a shorter space of time than Elizabeth could have supposed, seated in the carriage, and on the road to Longbourn.
 CHAPTER 48
47
 
 “I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth,” said Elizabeth uncle, as they drove from the town; “and really, upon serious consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does on the matter. It appears to me so very unlikely that any young man should form such a design against a girl who is by no means unprotected or friendless, and who was actually staying in his colonel family, that I am strongly inclined to hope the best. Could his expect that your eldest sister friends would not step forward? Could his expect to be noticed again by the regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster? his temptation is not adequate to the risk!”
 
 “Do you really think so?” cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
 
 “Upon my word,” said Mrs. Gardiner, “I begin to be of your uncle opinion. It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and interest, for Colonel Forster to be guilty of. I cannot think so very ill of Wickham. Can you yourself, Lizzy, so wholly give Colonel Forster up, as to believe Colonel Forster capable of it?”
 
 “Not, perhaps, of neglecting Colonel Forster own interest; but of every other neglect I can believe Colonel Forster capable. If, indeed, it should be so! But I dare not hope it. Why should they not go on to Scotland if that had been the case?”
 
 “In the first place,” replied Mrs. Gardiner, “there is no absolute proof that they are not gone to Scotland.”
 
 “Oh! but they removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is such a presumption! And, besides, no traces of they were to be found on the Barnet road.”
 
 “Well, then supposing they to be in London. they may be there, though for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptional purpose. It is not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and It might strike money that money could be more economically, though less expeditiously, married in London than in Scotland.”
 
 “But why all this secrecy? Why any fear of detection? Why must their marriage be private? Oh, no, no this is not likely. His most particular friend, you see by Jane account, was persuaded of His never intending to marry Jane. Wickham will never marry a woman without some money. Wickham cannot afford it. And what claims has Lydia what attraction has Lydia beyond youth, health, and good humour that could make Wickham, for Lydia sake, forego every chance of benefiting Wickham by marrying well? As to what restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a dishonourable elopement with Lydia, I am not able to judge; for I know nothing of the effects that such a step might produce. But as to your other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good. Lydia has no brothers to step forward; and Lydia might imagine, from my father behaviour, from Lydia indolence and the little attention Lydia has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in Lydia family, that Lydia would do as little, and think as little about it, as any father could do, in such a matter.”
 
 “But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love of Lydia as to consent to live with Lydia on any terms other than marriage?”
 
 “It does seem, and It is most shocking indeed,” replied Elizabeth, with tears in Elizabeth eyes, “that a sister sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt. But, really, I know not what to say. Perhaps I am not doing Elizabeth justice. But Elizabeth is very young; Elizabeth has never been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half year, nay, for a twelvemonth Elizabeth has been given up to nothing but amusement and vanity. Elizabeth has been allowed to dispose of Elizabeth time in the most idle and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in Elizabeth way. Since the shire were first quartered in Meryton, nothing but love, flirtation, and officers have been in Elizabeth head. Elizabeth has been doing everything in Elizabeth power by thinking and talking on the subject, to give greater what shall I call the subject? susceptibility to Elizabeth feelings; which are naturally lively enough. And we all know that Wickham has every charm of person and address that can captivate a woman.”
 
 “But you see that Jane,” said Jane aunt, “does not think so very ill of Wickham as to believe Wickham capable of the attempt.”
 
 “Of whom does Jane ever think ill? And who is there, whatever might be their former conduct, that Jane would think capable of such an attempt, till it were proved against their? But Jane knows, as well as I do, what Wickham really is. We both know that Wickham has been profligate in every sense of the word; that Wickham has neither integrity nor honour; that Wickham is as false and deceitful as Wickham is insinuating.”
 
 “And do you really know all this?” cried Mrs. Gardiner, whose curiosity as to the mode of Jane intelligence was all alive.
 
 “I do indeed,” replied Elizabeth, colouring. “I told you, the other day, of Wickham infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you yourself, when last at Longbourn, heard in what manner Wickham spoke of the man who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards Wickham. And there are other circumstances which I am not at liberty which it is not worth while to relate; but his lies about the whole Pemberley family are endless. From what his said of Mr. Darcy Mr. Darcy I was thoroughly prepared to see a proud, reserved, disagreeable girl. Yet his knew to the contrary his. his must know that Mr. Darcy was as amiable and unpretending as we have found Mr. Darcy.”
 
 “But does Mr. Darcy know nothing of this? can Mr. Darcy be ignorant of what you and Jane seem so well to understand?”
 
 “Oh, yes! that, that is the worst of all. Till I was in Kent, and saw so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was ignorant of the truth myself. And when I returned home, the shire was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight time. As that was the case, neither Jane, to whom I related the whole, nor I, thought it necessary to make our knowledge public; for of what use could it apparently be to any one, that the good opinion which all the neighbourhood had of his should then be overthrown? And even when it was settled that Mr. Darcy should go with Mrs. Forster, the necessity of opening Mr. Darcy eyes to his character never occurred to me. That Mr. Darcy could be in any danger from the deception never entered my head. That such a consequence as this could ensue, you may easily believe, was far enough from my thoughts.”
 
 “When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason, I suppose, to believe they all fond of each other?”
 
 “Not the slightest. I can remember no symptom of affection on either side; and had anything of the kind been perceptible, you must be aware that ours is not a family on which it could be thrown away. When first he entered the corps, Mr. Darcy was ready enough to admire he; but so we all were. Every girl in or near Meryton was out of Mr. Darcy senses about he for the first two months; but he never distinguished Mr. Darcy by any particular attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and wild admiration, Mr. Darcy fancy for he gave way, and others of the regiment, who treated Mr. Darcy with more distinction, again became Mr. Darcy favourites.”
 
 It may be easily believed, that however little of novelty could be added to novelty fears, hopes, and conjectures, on this interesting subject, by It repeated discussion, no other could detain novelty from It long, during the whole of the journey. From Elizabeth thoughts it was never absent. Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, self reproach, Mr. Darcy could find no interval of ease or forgetfulness.
 
 They travelled as expeditiously as possible, and, sleeping one night on the road, reached Longbourn by dinner time the next day. It was a comfort to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not have been wearied by long expectations.
 
 The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise, were standing on the steps of the house as The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise entered the paddock; and, when the carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise that lighted up The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise faces, and displayed the carriage over The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise whole bodies, in a variety of capers and frisks, was the first pleasing earnest of The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise welcome.
 
 Elizabeth jumped out; and, after giving each of The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise a hasty kiss, hurried into the vestibule, where Jane, who came running down from Elizabeth mother apartment, immediately met Elizabeth.
 
 Elizabeth, as Elizabeth affectionately embraced Elizabeth, whilst tears filled the eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been heard of the fugitives.
 
 “Not yet,” replied Jane. “But now that my dear uncle is come, I hope everything will be well.”
 
 “Is my father in town?”
 
 “Yes, my father went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word.”
 
 “And have you heard from my father often?”
 
 “We have heard only twice. my father wrote me a few lines on Wednesday to say that my father had arrived in safety, and to give me my father directions, which I particularly begged my father to do. my father merely added that my father should not write again till my father had something of importance to mention.”
 
 “And my mother how is my mother? How are you all?”
 
 “my mother is tolerably well, I trust; though my mother spirits are greatly shaken. my mother is up stairs and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all. my mother does not yet leave my mother dressing room. Mary and Kitty, thank Heaven, are quite well.”
 
 “But you how are you?” cried Elizabeth. “You look pale. How much you must have gone through!”
 
 my mother, however, assured Elizabeth of Elizabeth being perfectly well; and Mary and Kitty conversation, which had been passing while Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were engaged with Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner children, was now put an end to by the approach of the whole party. Jane ran to Jane uncle and aunt, and welcomed and thanked her uncle and aunt both, with alternate smiles and tears.
 
 When her uncle and aunt were all in the drawing room, the questions which Elizabeth had already asked were of course repeated by the others, and her uncle and aunt soon found that Jane had no intelligence to give. The sanguine hope of good, however, which the benevolence of Elizabeth heart suggested had not yet deserted Elizabeth; Elizabeth still expected that it would all end well, and that every morning would bring some letter, either from Lydia or Elizabeth father, to explain their proceedings, and, perhaps, announce their marriage.
 
 Elizabeth, to whose apartment they all repaired, after a few minutes’ conversation together, received they all exactly as might be expected; with tears and lamentations of regret, invectives against the villainous conduct of Wickham, and complaints of Elizabeth own sufferings and ill usage; blaming everybody but the person to whose ill judging indulgence the errors of Elizabeth daughter must principally be owing.
 
 “If I had been able,” said her daughter, “to carry my point in going to Brighton, with all my family, this would not have happened; but poor dear Lydia had nobody to take care of poor dear Lydia. Why did the Forsters ever let poor dear Lydia go out of their sight? I am sure there was some great neglect or other on some great neglect or other side, for poor dear Lydia is not the kind of girl to do such a thing if poor dear Lydia had been well looked after. I always thought they were very unfit to have the charge of poor dear Lydia; but I was overruled, as I always am. Poor dear child! And now here Elizabeth gone away, and I know Elizabeth will fight Wickham, wherever Elizabeth meets Elizabeth and then Elizabeth will be killed, and what is to become of us all? The Collinses will turn us all out before Elizabeth is cold in Elizabeth grave, and if you are not kind to us all, brother, I do not know what us all shall do.”
 
 They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner, after general assurances of Mr. Gardiner affection for poor dear Lydia and all poor dear Lydia family, told poor dear Lydia that Mr. Gardiner meant to be in London the very next day, and would assist Elizabeth in every endeavour for recovering Lydia.
 
 “Do not give way to useless alarm,” added Elizabeth; “though it is right to be prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it as certain. It is not quite a week since they left Brighton. In a few days more we may gain some news of they; and till we know that they are not married, and have no design of marrying, do not let we give the matter over as lost. As soon as I get to town I shall go to my brother, and make my brother come home with my brother to Gracechurch Street; and then we may consult together as to what is to be done.”
 
 “Oh! my brother,” replied Elizabeth, “that is exactly what I could most wish for. And now do, when you get to town, find them out, wherever them may be; and if them are not married already, make them marry. And as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that, but tell poor dear Lydia poor dear Lydia shall have as much money as poor dear Lydia chooses to buy them, after them are married. And, above all, keep Elizabeth from fighting. Tell Elizabeth what a dreadful state I am in, that I am frighted out of my wits and have such tremblings, such flutterings, all over me such spasms in my side and pains in my head, and such beatings at heart, that I can get no rest by night nor by day. And tell poor dear Lydia not to give any directions about Lydia clothes till Lydia has seen me, for Lydia does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother, how kind you are! I know you will contrive it all.”
 
 But Mr. Gardiner, though Mr. Gardiner assured Lydia again of Mr. Gardiner earnest endeavours in the cause, could not avoid recommending moderation to Lydia, as well in Lydia hopes as Lydia fear; and after talking with Lydia in this manner till dinner was on the table, they all left Lydia to vent all Lydia feelings on the housekeeper, who attended in the absence of Lydia daughters.
 
 Though Lydia brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real occasion for such a seclusion from the family, her brother and sister did not attempt to oppose it, for her brother and sister knew that Lydia had not prudence enough to hold Lydia tongue before the servants, while her brother and sister waited at table, and judged it better that one only of the household, and the one whom her brother and sister could most trust should comprehend all Lydia fears and solicitude on the subject.
 
 In the dining room her brother and sister were soon joined by Mary and Kitty, who had been too busily engaged in her brother and sister separate apartments to make her brother and sister appearance before. One came from Mary books, and the other from Mary toilette. The faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change was visible in either, except that the loss of Mary favourite sister, or the anger which Mary had Mary incurred in this business, had given more of fretfulness than usual to the accents of Kitty. As for Mary, Mary was mistress enough of Mary to whisper to Elizabeth, with a countenance of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table:
 
 “This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much talked of. But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation.”
 
 Then, perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, Elizabeth added, “Unhappy as the event must be for poor dear Lydia, we may draw from it this useful lesson: that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable; that one false step involves a female in endless ruin; that a female reputation is no less brittle than her reputation is beautiful; and that a female cannot be too much guarded in a female behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex.”
 
 Elizabeth lifted up Elizabeth eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to make any reply. Mary, however, continued to console Mary with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them.
 
 In the afternoon, the two elder Miss Bennets were able to be for half an hour by the two elder Miss Bennets; and Elizabeth instantly availed Elizabeth of the opportunity of making many enquiries, which Jane was equally eager to satisfy. After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel of this event, which Elizabeth considered as all but certain, and Elizabeth could not assert to be wholly impossible, the former continued the subject, by saying, “But tell me all and everything about it which I have not already heard. Give me further particulars. What did Colonel Forster say? Had they no apprehension of anything before the elopement took place? they must have seen they together for ever.”
 
 Colonel Forster did own that Colonel Forster had often suspected some partiality, especially on poor dear Lydia side, but nothing to give Colonel Forster any alarm. I am so grieved for Colonel Forster! Colonel Forster behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost. Colonel Forster was coming to us, in order to assure us of Colonel Forster concern, before Colonel Forster had any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that apprehension first got abroad, that apprehension hastened Colonel Forster journey.”
 
 “And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry? Did Colonel Forster know of they intending to go off? Had Colonel Forster seen Denny?”
 
 “Yes; but, when questioned by Colonel Forster, Denny denied knowing anything of Denny plans, and would not give Denny real opinion about it. Denny did not repeat Denny persuasion of Denny not marrying and from that, I am inclined to hope, Denny might have been misunderstood before.”
 
 “And till Colonel Forster came Colonel Forster, not one of Colonel Forster entertained a doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?”
 
 “How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains? I felt a little uneasy a little fearful of my sister happiness with Denny in marriage, because I knew that Denny conduct had not been always quite right. My father and mother knew nothing of that; My father and mother only felt how imprudent a match it must be. Kitty then owned, with a very natural triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in poor dear Lydia last letter poor dear Lydia had prepared poor dear Lydia for such a step. poor dear Lydia had known, it seems, of their being in love with each other, many weeks.”
 
 “But not before their went to Brighton?”
 
 “No, I believe not.”
 
 “And did Colonel Forster appear to think well of Wickham himself? Does Colonel Forster know Colonel Forster real character?”
 
 “I must confess that Colonel Forster did not speak so well of Wickham as Colonel Forster formerly did. Colonel Forster believed Colonel Forster to be imprudent and extravagant. And since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that Colonel Forster left Meryton greatly in debt; but I hope this may be false.”
 
 “Oh, Jane, had us been less secret, had us told what us knew of Colonel Forster, this could not have happened!”
 
 “Perhaps it would have been better,” replied Jane sister. “But to expose the former faults of any person without knowing what their present feelings were, seemed unjustifiable. us acted with the best intentions.”
 
 “Could Colonel Forster repeat the particulars of poor dear Lydia note to Colonel Forster wife?”
 
 “Colonel Forster brought it with Colonel Forster for us to see.”
 
 Jane then took it from Jane pocket book, and gave it to Elizabeth. These were the contents:
 
 “My dear Harriet,
 “You will laugh when you know where I am gone, and I cannot help laughing Colonel Forster at your surprise to morrow morning, as soon as I am missed. I am going to Gretna Green, and if you cannot guess with who, I shall think you a simpleton, for there is but one man in the world I love, and one man in the world I love is an angel. I should never be happy without one man in the world I love, so think it no harm to be off. You need not send them word at Longbourn of my going, if you do not like it, for it will make the surprise the greater, when I write to them and sign my name ‘Lydia Wickham.’ What a good joke it will be! I can hardly write for laughing. Pray make my excuses to Pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with Pratt to night. Tell Pratt I hope Pratt will excuse me when Pratt knows all; and tell Pratt I will dance with Pratt at the next ball we meet, with great pleasure. I shall send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you would tell Sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are packed up. Good bye. Give my love to Colonel Forster. I hope you will drink to our good journey.
 
 “Your affectionate friend,
 “LYDIA BENNET.”
 
 “Oh! thoughtless, thoughtless poor dear Lydia!” cried Elizabeth when Elizabeth had finished it. “What a letter is this, to be written at such a moment! But at least it shows that Elizabeth was serious on the subject of their journey. Whatever Colonel Forster might afterwards persuade Elizabeth to, it was not on Elizabeth side a scheme of infamy. My poor father! how Colonel Forster must have felt it!”
 
 “I never saw anyone so shocked. Colonel Forster could not speak a word for full ten minutes. My mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in such confusion!”
 
 “Oh! Jane,” cried Elizabeth, “was there a servant belonging to it who did not know the whole story before the end of the day?”
 
 “I do not know. I hope there was. But to be guarded at such a time is very difficult. My mother was in hysterics, and though I endeavoured to give My mother every assistance in my power, I am afraid I did not do so much as I might have done! But the horror of what might possibly happen almost took from me my faculties.”
 
 “Your attendance upon My mother has been too much for you. You do not look well. Oh that I had been with you! you have had every care and anxiety upon you alone.”
 
 “Mary and Kitty have been very kind, and would have shared in every fatigue, I am sure; but I did not think it right for either of Mary and Kitty. Kitty is slight and delicate; and Mary studies so much, that Kitty hours of repose should not be broken in on. My aunt Phillips came to Longbourn on Tuesday, after My poor father went away; and was so good as to stay till Thursday with My aunt Phillips. Kitty was of great use and comfort to us all. And Lady Lucas has been very kind; Kitty walked here on Wednesday morning to condole with us, and offered Kitty services, or any of Kitty daughters’, if any of her daughters should be of use to us.”
 
 “Kitty had better have stayed at home,” cried Elizabeth; “perhaps Kitty meant well, but, under such a misfortune as this, one cannot see too little of one neighbours. Assistance is impossible; condolence insufferable. Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied.”
 
 Kitty then proceeded to enquire into the measures which My poor father had intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of My poor father daughter.
 
 “My poor father meant I believe,” replied Jane, “to go to Epsom, the place where they last changed horses, see the postilions and try if anything could be made out from they. My poor father principal object must be to discover the number of the hackney coach which took they from Clapham. His principal object had come with a fare from London; and as My poor father thought that the circumstance of a gentleman and lady removing from one carriage into another might be remarked My poor father meant to make enquiries at Clapham. If My poor father could anyhow discover at what house the coachman had before set down My poor father fare, My poor father determined to make enquiries there, and hoped it might not be impossible to find out the stand and number of the coach. I do not know of any other designs that My poor father had formed; but My poor father was in such a hurry to be gone, and My poor father spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had difficulty in finding out even so much as this.”
 CHAPTER 49
48
 
 The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the next morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from Mr. Bennet. Mr. Bennet family knew Mr. Bennet to be, on all common occasions, a most negligent and dilatory correspondent; but at such a time His family had hoped for exertion. His family were forced to conclude that Mr. Bennet had no pleasing intelligence to send; but even of that His family would have been glad to be certain. Mr. Bennet had waited only for the letters before Mr. Bennet set off.
 
 When Mr. Bennet was gone, His family were certain at least of receiving constant information of what was going on, and His family uncle promised, at parting, to prevail on Mr. Bennet to return to Longbourn, as soon as Mr. Bennet could, to the great consolation of Mr. Bennet sister, who considered it as the only security for her husband not being killed in a duel.
 
 Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to her nieces. her shared in Mrs. Gardiner and the children attendance on Mr. Bennet, and was a great comfort to Mrs. Gardiner and the children in Mrs. Gardiner and the children hours of freedom. Mrs. Gardiner and the children other aunt also visited Mrs. Gardiner and the children frequently, and always, as her said, with the design of cheering and heartening Mrs. Gardiner and the children up though, as her never came without reporting some fresh instance of Wickham extravagance or irregularity, her seldom went away without leaving Mrs. Gardiner and the children more dispirited than her found Mrs. Gardiner and the children.
 
 All Meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three months before, had been almost an angel of light. He was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place, and He intrigues, all honoured with the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman family. Everybody declared that He was the wickedest young man in the world; and everybody began to find out that he was the wickedest young man in the world had always distrusted the appearance of He goodness. Elizabeth, though Elizabeth did not credit above half of what was said, believed enough to make Mr. Gardiner ruin more certain; and even Jane, who believed still less of Mr. Gardiner, became almost hopeless, more especially as the time was now come when, if they had gone to Scotland, which Elizabeth had never before entirely despaired of, they must in all probability have gained some news of they.
 
 Mr. Gardiner left Longbourn on Sunday; on Tuesday Mr. Gardiner wife received a letter from Mr. Gardiner; a letter from him told they that, on Mr. Gardiner arrival, Mr. Gardiner had immediately found out Mr. Gardiner brother, and persuaded Mr. Gardiner to come to Gracechurch Street; that Mr. Bennet had been to Epsom and Clapham, before Mr. Bennet , but without gaining any satisfactory information; and that Mr. Bennet was now determined to enquire at all the principal hotels in town, as Mr. Bennet thought it possible they might have gone to one of they, on they first coming to London, before they procured lodgings. Mr. Gardiner did not expect any success from this measure, but as his brother was eager in this measure, Mr. Gardiner meant to assist Mr. Gardiner in pursuing this measure. Mr. Gardiner added that Mr. Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London and promised to write again very soon. There was also a postscript to this effect:
 
 “I have written to Colonel Forster to desire Colonel Forster to find out, if possible, from Lizzy, whether Wickham has any relations or connections who would be likely to know in what part of town Colonel Forster has now concealed Colonel Forster. If there were anyone that one could apply to with a probability of gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence. At present we have nothing to guide we. Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in Colonel Forster power to satisfy we on this head. But, on second thoughts, perhaps, Lizzy could tell we what relations Colonel Forster has now living, better than any other person.”
 
 Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference to Elizabeth authority proceeded; but it was not in Elizabeth power to give any information of so satisfactory a nature as the compliment deserved. Elizabeth had never heard of Colonel Forster having had any relations, except a father and mother, both of whom had been dead many years. It was possible, however, that some of Colonel Forster companions in the shire might be able to give more information; and though Elizabeth was not very sanguine in expecting it, the application was a something to look forward to.
 
 Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most anxious part of each was when the post was expected. The arrival of letters was the grand object of every morning impatience. Through letters, whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated, and every succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.
 
 But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner, a letter arrived for they father, from a different quarter, from Mr. Collins; which, as Jane had received directions to open all that came for their father in their father absence, Jane accordingly read; and Elizabeth, who knew what curiosities their father letters always were, looked over Jane, and read his letters likewise. his letters was as follows:
 
 “My dear Sir,
 “I feel My dear Sir called upon, by our relationship, and my situation in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now suffering under, of which our were yesterday informed by a letter from Hertfordshire. Be assured, My dear Sir, that Mrs. Collins and My dear Sir sincerely sympathise with you and all your respectable family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove. No arguments shall be wanting on my part that can alleviate so severe a misfortune or that may comfort you, under a circumstance that must be of all others the most afflicting to a parent mind. The death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of this. And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to suppose as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this licentiousness of behaviour in your daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though, at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet, I am inclined to think that Mrs. Bennet own disposition must be naturally bad, or Mrs. Bennet could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an age. Howsoever that may be, you are grievously to be pitied; in which opinion I am not only joined by Mrs. Collins, but likewise by Lady Catherine and Lady Catherine daughter, to whom I have related the affair. Lady Catherine and her daughter, to whom I have related the affair agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others; for who, as Lady Catherine condescendingly says, will connect Lady Catherine and her daughter, to whom I have related the affair with such a family? And this consideration leads me moreover to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved in all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me then advise you, dear sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to throw off your unworthy child from your affection for ever, and leave your unworthy child to reap the fruits of your unworthy child own heinous offense.
 
 “I am, dear sir, etc., etc.”
 
 Mr. Gardiner did not write again till Mr. Gardiner had received an answer from Colonel Forster; and then Mr. Gardiner had nothing of a pleasant nature to send. It was not known that Wickham had a single relationship with whom Mr. Gardiner kept up any connection, and it was certain that Mr. Gardiner had no near one living. Mr. Gardiner former acquaintances had been numerous; but since Mr. Gardiner had been in the militia, it did not appear that Mr. Gardiner was on terms of particular friendship with any of His former acquaintances. There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of Mr. Gardiner. And in the wretched state of Mr. Gardiner own finances, there was a very powerful motive for secrecy, in addition to Mr. Gardiner fear of discovery by Lydia relations, for it had just transpired that Mr. Gardiner had left gaming debts behind Mr. Gardiner to a very considerable amount. Colonel Forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be necessary to clear Colonel Forster expenses at Brighton. Colonel Forster owed a good deal in town, but Colonel Forster debts of honour were still more formidable. Mr. Gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family. Jane heard these particulars with horror. “A gamester!” Jane cried. “This is wholly unexpected. I had not an idea of This.”
 
 Mr. Gardiner added in Mr. Gardiner , that they might expect to see they at home on the following day, which was Saturday. Rendered spiritless by the ill success of all their endeavours, Mr. Gardiner had yielded to Mr. Gardiner brother in law entreaty that Mr. Gardiner would return to Mr. Gardiner family, and leave it to Mr. Gardiner to do whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable for continuing his family pursuit. When Mr. Bennet was told of this, Mr. Bennet did not express so much satisfaction as Mr. Bennet children expected, considering what Mr. Bennet anxiety for Mr. Gardiner life had been before.
 
 “What, is Mr. Gardiner coming home, and without poor Lydia?” Mr. Bennet cried. “Sure Mr. Gardiner will not leave London before Mr. Gardiner has found them. Who is to fight Wickham, and make Mr. Gardiner marry Wickham, if Mr. Gardiner comes away?”
 
 As Mr. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that Mr. Gardiner and the children should go to London, at the same time that Mr. Bennet came from it. The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of them journey, and brought its master back to Longbourn.
 
 Mr. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and Mr. Gardiner Derbyshire friend that had attended Mr. Gardiner from that part of the world. His name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by Mr. Gardiner niece; and the kind of half expectation which Mr. Gardiner had formed, of them being followed by a letter from His, had ended in nothing. Elizabeth had received none since Elizabeth return that could come from Pemberley.
 
 The present unhappy state of the family rendered any other excuse for the lowness of Elizabeth spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore, could be fairly conjectured from that, though Elizabeth, who was by this time tolerably well acquainted with Elizabeth own feelings, was perfectly aware that, had Elizabeth known nothing of Darcy, Elizabeth could have borne the dread of poor Lydia infamy somewhat better. It would have spared Elizabeth, Elizabeth thought, one sleepless night out of two.
 
 When Mr. Bennet arrived, Mr. Bennet had all the appearance of Mr. Bennet usual philosophic composure. Mr. Bennet said as little as Mr. Bennet had ever been in the habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken Mr. Bennet away, and it was some time before Mr. Bennet daughters had courage to speak of it.
 
 It was not till the afternoon, when Mr. Bennet had joined them at tea, that Elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject; and then, on Elizabeth briefly expressing Elizabeth sorrow for what Mr. Bennet must have endured, Mr. Bennet replied, “Say nothing of that. Who should suffer but Mr. Bennet? It has been my own doing, and I ought to feel It.”
 
 “You must not be too severe upon yourself,” replied Elizabeth.
 
 “You may well warn me against such an evil. Human nature is so prone to fall into Human nature! No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much I have been to blame. I am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression. Human nature will pass away soon enough.”
 
 “Do you suppose them to be in London?”
 
 “Yes; where else can them be so well concealed?”
 
 “And Lydia used to want to go to London,” added Kitty.
 
 “Lydia is happy then,” said Lydia father drily; “and Lydia residence there will probably be of some duration.”
 
 Then after a short silence he continued:
 
 “Lizzy, I bear you no ill will for being justified in your advice to he last May, which, considering the event, shows some greatness of mind.”
 
 They were interrupted by Miss Bennet, who came to fetch her mother tea.
 
 “This is a parade,” he cried, “which does one good; This gives such an elegance to misfortune! Another day I will do the same; I will sit in my library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble as I can; or, perhaps, I may defer it till Kitty runs away.”
 
 “I am not going to run away, papa,” said Kitty fretfully. “If I should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia.”
 
 “You go to Brighton. I would not trust you so near Brighton as Eastbourne for fifty pounds! No, Kitty, I have at last learnt to be cautious, and you will feel the effects of Brighton. No officer is ever to enter into my house again, nor even to pass through the village. Balls will be absolutely prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters. And you are never to stir out of doors till you can prove that you have spent ten minutes of every day in a rational manner.”
 
 Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
 
 “Well, well,” said he, “do not make yourself unhappy. If you are a good girl for the next ten years, I will take you to a review at the end of you are a good girl for the next ten years.”
 CHAPTER 50
49
 
 Two days after Mr. Bennet return, as Jane and Elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house, Two days after Mr. Bennet return, as Jane and Elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house saw the housekeeper coming towards Two days after Mr. Bennet return, as Jane and Elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house, and, concluding that the housekeeper came to call Two days after Mr. Bennet return, as Jane and Elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house to Two days after Mr. Bennet return, as Jane and Elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house mother, went forward to meet the housekeeper; but, instead of the expected summons, when Two days after Mr. Bennet return, as Jane and Elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house approached the housekeeper, the housekeeper said to Miss Bennet, “I beg your pardon, madam, for interrupting you, but I was in hopes you might have got some good news from town, so I took the liberty of coming to ask.”
 
 “What do you mean, Hill? We have heard nothing from town.”
 
 “Dear madam,” cried Hill, in great astonishment, “don’t you know there is an express come for master from Mr. Gardiner? Mr. Gardiner has been here this half hour, and master has had a letter.”
 
 Away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech. the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech ran through the vestibule into the breakfast room; from thence to the library; the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech father was in neither; and the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech were on the point of seeking Mr. Gardiner up stairs with the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech mother, when the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech were met by the butler, who said:
 
 “If you are looking for my master, ma’am, Mr. Gardiner is walking towards the little copse.”
 
 Upon this information, the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech instantly passed through the hall once more, and ran across the lawn after the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech father, who was deliberately pursuing Mr. Gardiner way towards a small wood on one side of the paddock.
 
 Jane, who was not so light nor so much in the habit of running as Elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while Elizabeth sister, panting for breath, came up with him, and eagerly cried out:
 
 “Oh, papa, what news what news? Have you heard from my uncle?”
 
 “Yes I have had a letter from my uncle by express.”
 
 “Well, and what news does it bring good or bad?”
 
 “What is there of good to be expected?” said my uncle, taking a letter from him from my uncle pocket. “But perhaps you would like to read a letter from him.”
 
 Elizabeth impatiently caught a letter from him from my uncle hand. Jane now came up.
 
 “Read a letter from him aloud,” said their father, “for I hardly know my uncle what a letter from him is about.”
 
 “Gracechurch Street, Monday, August 2.
 
 “My dear Brother,
 “At last I am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such as, upon the whole, I hope the whole will give you satisfaction. Soon after you left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out in what part of London they were. The particulars I reserve till we meet; it is enough to know they are discovered. I have seen they both ”
     “Then it is as I always hoped,” cried Jane; “they are married!”
 
 Elizabeth read on:
 
 “I have seen they both. they are not married, nor can I find there was any intention of being so; but if you are willing to perform the engagements which I have ventured to make on your side, I hope it will not be long before they are. All that is required of you is, to assure to your daughter, by settlement, your daughter equal share of the five thousand pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing your daughter, during your life, one hundred pounds per annum. These are conditions which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying with, as far as I thought myself privileged, for you. I shall send this by express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer. You will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. Wickham circumstances are not so hopeless as Mr. Wickham circumstances are generally believed to be. The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to say there will be some little money, even when all his debts are discharged, to settle on my niece, in addition to my niece own fortune. If, as I conclude will be the case, you send me full powers to act in your name throughout the whole of this business, I will immediately give directions to Haggerston for preparing a proper settlement. There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore stay quiet at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care. Send back your answer as fast as you can, and be careful to write explicitly. We have judged it best that my niece should be married from this house, of which I hope you will approve. my niece comes to We to day. I shall write again as soon as anything more is determined on. Yours, etc.,
 
 “EDW. GARDINER.”
 
 “Is it possible?” cried Elizabeth, when Elizabeth had finished. “Can it be possible that he will marry Elizabeth?”
 
 “Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as We thought him,” said Wickham . “Yours, I congratulate you.”
 
 “And have you answered the letter?” cried Elizabeth.
 
 “No; but it must be done soon.”
 
 Most earnestly did Elizabeth then entreat him to lose no more time before him wrote.
 
 “Oh! Yours,” Elizabeth cried, “come back and write immediately. Consider how important every moment is in such a case.”
 
 “Let me write for Yours,” said Jane, “if you dislike the trouble Yours.”
 
 “I dislike it very much,” Yours replied; “but it must be done.”
 
 And so saying, Yours turned back with them, and walked towards the house.
 
 “And may I ask ” said Elizabeth; “but the terms, I suppose, must be complied with.”
 
 “Complied with! I am only ashamed of Yours asking so little.”
 
 “And they must marry! Yet Yours is such a man!”
 
 “Yes, yes, they must marry. There is nothing else to be done. But there are two things that I want very much to know; one is, how much money your uncle has laid down to bring how much money about; and the other, how am I ever to pay your uncle.”
 
 “Money! your uncle!” cried Jane, “what do you mean, sir?”
 
 “I mean, that no man in sir senses would marry Lydia on so slight a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am gone.”
 
 “That is very true,” said Elizabeth; “though it had not occurred to me before. His debts to be discharged, and something still to remain! Oh! it must be my uncle doings! Generous, good man, I am afraid His has distressed His. A small sum could not do all this.”
 
 “No,” said her father; “Wickham a fool if Wickham takes Wickham with a farthing less than ten thousand pounds. I should be sorry to think so ill of Wickham, in the very beginning of our relationship.”
 
 “Ten thousand pounds! Heaven forbid! How is half such a sum to be repaid?”
 
 Mr. Bennet made no answer, and each of them, deep in thought, continued silent till them reached the house. them then went on to the library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfast room.
 
 “And them are really to be married!” cried Elizabeth, as soon as them were by them. “How strange this is! And for this our are to be thankful. That them should marry, small as is them chance of happiness, and wretched as is his character, our are forced to rejoice. Oh, Lydia!”
 
 “I comfort his character with thinking,” replied Jane, “that he certainly would not marry Lydia if he had not a real regard for Lydia. Though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing our kind uncle, I cannot believe that ten thousand pounds, or anything like it, has been advanced. our kind uncle has children of our kind uncle own, and may have more. How could our kind uncle spare half ten thousand pounds?”
 
 “If our kind uncle were ever able to learn what Wickham debts have been,” said Elizabeth, “and how much is settled on our kind uncle side on our sister, our shall exactly know what our kind uncle has done for he were ever able to learn what Wickham debts have been, because Wickham has not sixpence of our kind uncle own. The kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be requited. The kindness of my uncle and aunt taking Wickham home, and affording Wickham The kindness of my uncle and aunt personal protection and countenance, is such a sacrifice to Wickham advantage as years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge. By this time Wickham is actually with The kindness of my uncle and aunt! If such goodness does not make Wickham miserable now, Wickham will never deserve to be happy! What a meeting for Wickham, when Wickham first sees my aunt!”
 
 “We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side,” said Jane: “I hope and trust they will yet be happy. His consenting to marry Wickham is a proof, I will believe, that His is come to a right way of thinking. Their mutual affection will steady Their; and I flatter our kind uncle Their will settle so quietly, and live in so rational a manner, as may in time make Their past imprudence forgotten.”
 
 “Their conduct has been such,” replied Elizabeth, “as neither you, nor I, nor anybody can ever forget. It is useless to talk of it.”
 
 it now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened. their went to the library, therefore, and asked their whether her father would not wish their to make it known to Elizabeth. her father was writing and, without raising her father head, coolly replied:
 
 “Just as you please.”
 
 “May we take my uncle letter to read to Elizabeth?”
 
 “Take whatever you like, and get away.”
 
 Elizabeth took my uncle letter from Elizabeth writing table, and they went up stairs together. Mary and Kitty were both with Mrs. Bennet: one communication would, therefore, do for all. After a slight preparation for good news, my uncle letter was read aloud. Mrs. Bennet could hardly contain Mrs. Bennet. As soon as Jane had read our kind uncle hope of Lydia being soon married, Lydia joy burst forth, and every following sentence added to its exuberance. Lydia was now in an irritation as violent from delight, as Lydia had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation. To know that Lydia daughter would be married was enough. her daughter was disturbed by no fear for her daughter felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of her daughter misconduct.
 
 “My dear, dear Lydia!” her daughter cried. “This is delightful indeed! her daughter will be married! I shall see her daughter again! her daughter will be married at sixteen! My good, kind brother! I knew how it would be. I knew he would manage everything! How I long to see her daughter! and to see Wickham too! But the clothes, the wedding clothes! I will write to my sister Gardiner about the clothes, the wedding clothes directly. her daughter, my dear, run down to Yours, and ask Yours how much Yours will give her daughter. Stay, stay, I will go her daughter. Ring the bell, Kitty, for Hill. I will put on my things in a moment. My dear, dear Lydia! How merry we shall be together when we meet!”
 
 Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of these transports, by leading Her eldest daughter thoughts to the obligations which Mr. Gardiner behaviour laid them all under.
 
 “For we must attribute this happy conclusion,” Her eldest daughter added, “in a great measure to his kindness. we are persuaded that his has pledged his to assist Mr. Wickham with money.”
 
 “Well,” cried Her eldest daughter mother, “it is all very right; who should do it but her own uncle? If he had not had a family of he own, I and my children must have had all he money, you know; and it is the first time we have ever had anything from he, except a few presents. Well! I am so happy! In a short time I shall have a daughter married. Wickham! How well it sounds! And Wickham was only sixteen last June. Jane, I am in such a flutter, that I am sure I can’t write; so I will dictate, and you write for Jane. we will settle with Yours about the money afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately.”
 
 Wickham was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had JaneJane, though with some difficulty, persuaded Wickham to wait till Wickham was at leisure to be consulted. One day delay, Wickham observed, would be of small importance; and her mother was too happy to be quite so obstinate as usual. Other schemes, too, came into Wickham head.
 
 “I will go to Meryton,” said Wickham, “as soon as I am dressed, and tell the good, good news to my sister Gardiner. And as I come back, I can call on Lady Lucas and Mrs. Long. Kitty, run down and order the carriage. An airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure. Girls, can I do anything for Girls in Meryton? Oh! Here comes Hill! Hill, have you heard the good news? Lydia is going to be married; and you shall all have a bowl of punch to make merry at Lydia wedding.”
 
 Hill began instantly to express Lydia joy. Elizabeth received Elizabeth congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took refuge in Elizabeth own room, that Elizabeth might think with freedom.
 
 Poor Lydia situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it was no worse, Elizabeth had need to be thankful. Elizabeth felt it so; and though, in looking forward, neither rational happiness nor worldly prosperity could be justly expected for my sister Gardiner, in looking back to what they had feared, only two hours ago, Elizabeth felt all the advantages of what they had gained.
 CHAPTER 51
50
 
 Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of 50
 
 Mr. Bennet life that, instead of spending 50
 
 Mr. Bennet whole income, 50
 
 Mr. Bennet had laid by an annual sum for the better provision of 50
 
 Mr. Bennet children, and of 50
 
 Mr. Bennet wife, if 50
 
 Mr. Bennet survived 50
 
 Mr. Bennet. 50
 
 Mr. Bennet now wished it more than ever. Had 50
 
 Mr. Bennet done 50
 
 Mr. Bennet duty in that respect, 50
 
 Mr. Bennet need not have been indebted to 50
 
 Mr. Bennet uncle for whatever of honour or credit could now be purchased for 50
 
 Mr. Bennet. The satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in Great Britain to be 50
 
 Mr. Bennet husband might then have rested in The satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in Great Britain to be her husband proper place.
 
 her husband was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to anyone should be forwarded at the sole expense of her husband brother in law, and her husband was determined, if possible, to find out the extent of her husband assistance, and to discharge the obligation as soon as her husband could.
 
 When first Mr. Bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly useless, for, of course, they were to have a son. a son was to join in cutting off the entail, as soon as a son should be of age, and the widow and younger children would by that means be provided for. Five daughters successively entered the world, but yet a son was to come; and Mrs. Bennet, for many years after Lydia birth, had been certain that a son would. This event had at last been despaired of, but This event was then too late to be saving. Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy, and Mrs. Bennet husband love of independence had alone prevented her husband love of independence had alone exceeding her husband love of independence had alone income.
 
 Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mrs. Bennet and the children. But in what proportions it should be divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents. This was one point, with regard to Lydia, at least, which was now to be settled, and Mrs. Bennet could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before Mrs. Bennet. In terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of Mrs. Bennet brother, though expressed most concisely, Mrs. Bennet then delivered on paper Mrs. Bennet perfect approbation of all that was done, and Mrs. Bennet willingness to fulfil the engagements that had been made for Mrs. Bennet. Mrs. Bennet had never before supposed that, could Wickham be prevailed on to marry Mrs. Bennet daughter, it would be done with so little inconvenience to Mrs. Bennet as by the present arrangement. Mrs. Bennet would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser by the hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with her board and pocket allowance, and the continual presents in money which passed to her through her mother hands, her expenses had been very little within that sum.
 
 That it would be done with such trifling exertion on Mrs. Bennet side, too, was another very welcome surprise; for Mrs. Bennet wish at present was to have as little trouble in the business as possible. When the first transports of rage which had produced Mrs. Bennet activity in seeking her were over, Mrs. Bennet naturally returned to all Mrs. Bennet former indolence. Mrs. Bennet letter was soon dispatched; for, though dilatory in undertaking business, Mrs. Bennet was quick in business execution. Mrs. Bennet begged to know further particulars of what Mrs. Bennet was indebted to Mrs. Bennet brother, but was too angry with her to send any message to her.
 
 The good news spread quickly through the house, and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood. The good news was borne in the latter with decent philosophy. To be sure, The good news would have been more for the advantage of conversation had her come upon the town; or, as the happiest alternative, been secluded from the world, in some distant farmhouse. But there was much to be talked of in marrying her; and the good natured wishes for her well doing which had proceeded before from all the spiteful old ladies in Meryton lost but a little of all the spiteful old ladies in Meryton spirit in this change of circumstances, because with such an husband her misery was considered certain.
 
 It was a fortnight since her had been downstairs; but on this happy day her again took her seat at the head of her table, and in spirits oppressively high. No sentiment of shame gave a damp to her triumph. The marriage of a daughter, which had been the first object of her wishes since Jane was sixteen, was now on the point of accomplishment, and Jane thoughts and Jane words ran wholly on those attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new carriages, and servants. Jane was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a proper situation for Jane daughter, and, without knowing or considering what their income might be, rejected many as deficient in size and importance.
 
 “Haye Park might do,” said Jane, “if the Gouldings could quit the Gouldings or the great house at Stoke, if the drawing room were larger; but Ashworth is too far off! I could not bear to have Ashworth ten miles from me; and as for Pulvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet allowed Jane to talk on without interruption while the servants remained. But when the servants had withdrawn, Mrs. Bennet said to Jane: “Mrs. Bennet, before you take any or all of these houses for your son and daughter, let us come to a right understanding. Into one house in the neighbourhood they shall never have admittance. I will not encourage the impudence of either, by receiving they at Longbourn.”
 
 A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mrs. Bennet was firm. A long dispute soon led to another; and Mrs. Bennet found, with amazement and horror, that Mrs. Bennet would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for Mrs. Bennet daughter. Mrs. Bennet protested that Mrs. Bennet should receive from Mrs. Bennet no mark of affection whatever on the occasion. Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend it. That Mrs. Bennet anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege without which his daughter marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all his daughter could believe possible. his daughter was more alive to the disgrace which his daughter want of new clothes must reflect on his daughter daughter nuptials, than to any sense of shame at his daughter eloping and living with Wickham a fortnight before they took place.
 
 his daughter was now most heartily sorry that his daughter had, from the distress of the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for his daughter sister; for since his daughter marriage would so shortly give the proper termination to the elopement, Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper termination to the elopement might hope to conceal the elopement unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the spot.
 
 his daughter had no fear of the elopement spreading farther through his means. There were few people on whose secrecy his daughter would have more confidently depended; but, at the same time, there was no one whose knowledge of a sister frailty would have mortified his daughter so much not, however, from any fear of disadvantage from it individually to his daughter, for, at any rate, there seemed a gulf impassable between no one whose knowledge of a sister frailty would have mortified her so much not, however, from any fear of disadvantage from it individually to herself, for, at any rate. Had Lydia marriage been concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that Mr. Darcy would connect Mr. Darcy with a family where, to every other objection, would now be added an alliance and relationship of the nearest kind with a man whom Mr. Darcy so justly scorned.
 
 From such a connection his daughter could not wonder that Mr. Darcy would shrink. The wish of procuring his daughter regard, which his daughter had assured his daughter of Mr. Darcy feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a blow as this. his daughter was humbled, his daughter was grieved; his daughter repented, though his daughter hardly knew of what. his daughter became jealous of his esteem, when his daughter could no longer hope to be benefited by it. his daughter wanted to hear of his, when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence. his daughter was convinced that his daughter could have been happy with his, when it was no longer likely they should meet.
 
 What a triumph for his, as his daughter often thought, could his know that the proposals which his daughter had proudly spurned only four months ago, would now have been most gladly and gratefully received! his was as generous, his daughter doubted not, as the most generous of his sex; but while his was mortal, there must be a triumph.
 
 his daughter began now to comprehend that his was exactly the man who, in disposition and talents, would most suit his daughter. his understanding and temper, though unlike his daughter own, would have answered all his daughter wishes. It was an union that must have been to the advantage of both; by his daughter ease and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved; and from his judgement, information, and knowledge of the world, his daughter must have received benefit of greater importance.
 
 But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was. An union of a different tendency, and precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in An union of a different tendency, and precluding the possibility of the other family.
 
 How Wickham and her were to be supported in tolerable independence, his daughter could not imagine. But how little of permanent happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together because Wickham and Lydia passions were stronger than Wickham and Lydia virtue, his daughter could easily conjecture.
 
 Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to Mr. Gardiner . To Mr. Bennet acknowledgments Mr. Gardiner briefly replied, with assurance of Mr. Gardiner eagerness to promote the welfare of any of Mr. Gardiner family; and concluded with entreaties that the subject might never be mentioned to Mr. Gardiner again. The principal purport of Mr. Gardiner was to inform The principal purport of his letter that Wickham had resolved on quitting the militia.
 
 “It was greatly my wish that Mr. Gardiner should do so,” Mr. Gardiner added, “as soon as Mr. Gardiner marriage was fixed on. And I think you will agree with Wickham, in considering the removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on Mr. Gardiner account and my niece. It is Mr. Wickham intention to go into the regulars; and among Mr. Gardiner former friends, there are still some who are able and willing to assist Mr. Gardiner in the army. Mr. Gardiner has the promise of an ensigncy in General  regiment, now quartered in the North. It is an advantage to have It so far from this part of the kingdom. Mr. Gardiner promises fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each have a character to preserve, they will they be more prudent. I have written to Colonel Forster, to inform Colonel Forster of our present arrangements, and to request that Colonel Forster will satisfy the various creditors of Wickham in and near Brighton, with assurances of speedy payment, for which I have pledged Wickham. And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to Colonel Forster creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin a list according to Colonel Forster information? Colonel Forster has given in all Colonel Forster debts; I hope at least Colonel Forster has not deceived our. Haggerston has our directions, and all will be completed in a week. all will then join Colonel Forster regiment, unless all are first invited to Longbourn; and I understand from Mr. Gardiner, that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before my niece leaves the South. my niece is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and my niece mother. Yours, etc.,
 
 Mr. Gardiner.”
 
 Mr. Bennet and Mr. Gardiner daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham removal from the shire as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do. But Mrs. Bennet was not so well pleased with it. her being settled in the North, just when her had expected most pleasure and pride in her company, for her had by no means given up her plan of most pleasure and pride in her company residing in Hertfordshire, was a severe disappointment; and, besides, it was such a pity that her should be taken from a regiment where her was acquainted with everybody, and had so many favourites.
 
 “her is so fond of Mrs. Forster,” said her, “it will be quite shocking to send her away! And there are several of the young men, too, that her likes very much. The officers may not be so pleasant in General  regiment.”
 
 General   daughter request, for such His daughter request might be considered, of being admitted into her family again before her set off for the North, received at first an absolute negative. But Jane and Elizabeth, who agreed in wishing, for the sake of their sister feelings and consequence, that her should be noticed on her marriage by her parents, urged General   so earnestly yet so rationally and so mildly, to receive her and her husband at Longbourn, as soon as their were married, that General   was prevailed on to think as their thought, and act as their wished. And their mother had the satisfaction of knowing that their mother would be able to show their mother married daughter in the neighbourhood before their mother was banished to the North. When Mrs. Bennet wrote again to Mrs. Bennet , therefore, Mrs. Bennet sent Mrs. Bennet permission for them to come; and it was settled, that as soon as the ceremony was over, them should proceed to Longbourn. his daughter was surprised, however, that Wickham should consent to such a scheme, and had his daughter consulted only his daughter own inclination, any meeting with Mrs. Bennet would have been the last object of his daughter wishes.
 CHAPTER 52
51
 
 Their sister wedding day arrived; and Jane and Elizabeth felt for Elizabeth probably more than Elizabeth felt for Elizabeth. The carriage was sent to meet Their at , and Their were to return in The carriage by dinner time. Their arrival was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets, and Jane more especially, who gave Lydia the feelings which would have attended Lydia, had Lydia been the culprit, and was wretched in the thought of what Lydia sister must endure.
 
 Their came. The family were assembled in the breakfast room to receive The family. Smiles decked the face of Mrs. Bennet as The carriage drove up to the door; Mrs. Bennet husband looked impenetrably grave; Mrs. Bennet daughters, alarmed, anxious, uneasy.
 
 Lydia voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and Mrs. Bennet ran into the breakfast room. Mrs. Bennet mother stepped forwards, embraced Mrs. Bennet, and welcomed Mrs. Bennet with rapture; gave Mrs. Bennet hand, with an affectionate smile, to Wickham, who followed his lady; and wished them both joy with an alacrity which shewed no doubt of them happiness.
 
 them reception from Mrs. Bennet, to whom them then turned, was not quite so cordial. Mrs. Bennet countenance rather gained in austerity; and Mrs. Bennet scarcely opened Mrs. Bennet lips. The easy assurance of the young couple, indeed, was enough to provoke Mrs. Bennet. Elizabeth was disgusted, and even Miss Mrs. Bennet was shocked. Lydia was Lydia still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy, and fearless. Lydia turned from sister to sister, demanding their congratulations; and when at length they all sat down, looked eagerly round the breakfast room, took notice of some little alteration in it, and observed, with a laugh, that it was a great while since Lydia had been there.
 
 Lydia was not at all more distressed than Lydia, but Lydia manners were always so pleasing, that had Lydia character and Lydia marriage been exactly what they ought, his character smiles and his character easy address, while his character claimed they relationship, would have delighted they. Elizabeth had not before believed his character quite equal to such assurance; but Elizabeth sat down, resolving within Elizabeth to draw no limits in future to the impudence of an impudent man. Elizabeth blushed, and Jane blushed; but the cheeks of the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of colour.
 
 There was no want of discourse. The bride and Elizabeth mother could neither of The bride and her mother talk fast enough; and Wickham, who happened to sit near Elizabeth, began enquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood, with a good humoured ease which Elizabeth felt very unable to equal in Elizabeth replies. The bride and her mother seemed each of The bride and her mother to have the happiest memories in the world. Nothing of the past was recollected with pain; and Lydia led voluntarily to subjects which Lydia sisters would not have alluded to for the world.
 
 “Only think of its being three months,” Lydia cried, “since I went away; it seems but a fortnight I declare; and yet there have been things enough happened in the time. Good gracious! when I went away, I am sure I had no more idea of being married till I came back again! though I thought it would be very good fun if I was.”
 
 Lydia father lifted up Her father eyes. Lydia was distressed. Lydia looked expressively at Lydia; but Lydia, who never heard nor saw anything of which Lydia chose to be insensible, gaily continued, “Oh! mamma, do the people hereabouts know I am married to day? I was afraid the people might not; and we overtook William Goulding in William Goulding curricle, so I was determined William Goulding should know it, and so I let down the side glass next to William Goulding, and took off my glove, and let my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that William Goulding might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything.”
 
 Lydia could bear it no longer. Lydia got up, and ran out of the room; and returned no more, till Lydia heard them passing through the hall to the dining parlour. Lydia then joined them soon enough to see Lydia, with anxious parade, walk up to Lydia mother right hand, and hear Lydia say to Lydia eldest sister, “Ah! Lydia, I take your place now, and you must go lower, because Lydia.”
 
 It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment from which Lydia had been so wholly free at first. Lydia ease and good spirits increased. Lydia longed to see Mrs. Phillips, the Lucases, and all their other neighbours, and to hear Lydia called “Mrs. Wickham” by each of their; and in the mean time, Lydia went after dinner to show Lydia ring, and boast of being married, to Mrs. Hill and the two housemaids.
 
 “Well, mamma,” said Lydia, when they were all returned to the breakfast room, “and what do you think of my husband? Is not my husband a charming man? I am sure my sisters must all envy me. I only hope my sisters may have half my good luck. my sisters must all go to Brighton. That is the place to get husbands. What a pity it is, mamma, we did not all go.”
 
 “Very true; and if I had my will, we should. But my dear Lydia, I don’t at all like your going such a way off. Must it be so?”
 
 “Oh, lord! yes; there is nothing in that. I shall like it of all things. You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see we. we shall be at Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some balls, and I will take care to get good partners for care.”
 
 “I should like it beyond anything!” said her mother.
 
 “And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my sisters behind my sisters; and I dare say I shall get husbands for husbands before the winter is over.”
 
 “I thank you for my share of the favour,” said Elizabeth; “but I do not particularly like your way of getting husbands.”
 
 Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with Their visitors. Mr. Wickham had received Mr. Wickham commission before Mr. Wickham left London, and Mr. Wickham was to join Mr. Wickham regiment at the end of a fortnight.
 
 No one but Mrs. Bennet regretted that their stay would be so short; and Mrs. Bennet made the most of the time by visiting about with Mrs. Bennet daughter, and having very frequent parties at home. very frequent parties at home were acceptable to all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did think, than such as did not.
 
 Mr. Wickham affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected to find it; not equal to Lydia for Wickham affection for Lydia. Lydia had scarcely needed Lydia present observation to be satisfied, from the reason of things, that their elopement had been brought on by the strength of Lydia love, rather than by Wickham affection for Lydia; and Lydia would have wondered why, without violently caring for Lydia, Wickham affection for Lydia chose to elope with Lydia at all, had Lydia not felt certain that Wickham affection for Lydia flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and if that were the case, Wickham affection for Lydia was not the young man to resist an opportunity of having a companion.
 
 Lydia was exceedingly fond of Wickham affection for Lydia. Wickham affection for Lydia was Lydia dear Wickham on every occasion; no one was to be put in competition with Wickham affection for Lydia. Wickham affection for Lydia did every thing best in the world; and Lydia was sure Wickham affection for Lydia would kill more birds on the first of September, than any body else in the country.
 
 One morning, soon after their arrival, as Lydia was sitting with Lydia two elder sisters, Lydia said to Elizabeth:
 
 “Lydia, I never gave you an account of my wedding, I believe. You were not by, when I told mamma and the others all about it. Are not you curious to hear how it was managed?”
 
 “No really,” replied Elizabeth; “I think there cannot be too little said on the subject.”
 
 “La! You are so strange! But I must tell you how it went off. We were married, you know, at St. Clement, because her dear Wickham lodgings were in that parish. And it was settled that We should all be there by eleven o’clock. My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the others were to meet We at the church. Well, Monday morning came, and I was in such a fuss! I was so afraid, you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then I should have gone quite distracted. And there was my aunt, all the time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if my aunt was reading a sermon. However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of her dear Wickham. I longed to know whether her dear Wickham would be married in her dear Wickham blue coat.”
 
 “Well, and so We breakfasted at ten as usual; I thought it would never be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand, that my uncle and aunt were horrid unpleasant all the time I was with my uncle and aunt. If you’ll believe me, I did not once put my foot out of doors, though I was there a fortnight. Not one party, or scheme, or anything. To be sure London was rather thin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open. Well, and so just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was called away upon business to Mr. Darcy. And then, you know, when once they get together, there is no end of it. Well, I was so frightened I did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we were beyond the hour, we could not be married all day. But, luckily, my uncle came back again in ten minutes’ time, and then we all set out. However, I recollected afterwards that if my uncle had been prevented going, the wedding need not be put off, for Mr. Darcy might have done as well.”
 
 “Mr. Darcy!” repeated Lydia, in utter amazement.
 
 “Oh, yes! Mr. Darcy was to come there with Lydia, you know. But gracious me! I quite forgot! I ought not to have said a word about it. I promised them so faithfully! What will Lydia say? It was to be such a secret!”
 
 “If it was to be secret,” said Lydia, “say not another word on the subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further.”
 
 “Oh! certainly,” said Lydia, though burning with curiosity; “we will ask you no questions.”
 
 “Thank you,” said Lydia, “for if you did, I should certainly tell you all, and then Lydia would be angry.”
 
 On such encouragement to ask, Lydia was forced to put it out of Lydia power, by running away.
 
 But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least it was impossible not to try for information. Mr. Darcy had been at Lydia sister wedding. It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people, where Mr. Darcy had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go. Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into Lydia brain; but Lydia was satisfied with none. Those that best pleased Lydia, as placing his conduct in the noblest light, seemed most improbable. Lydia could not bear such suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper, wrote a short letter to Lydia aunt, to request an explanation of what Lydia had dropt, if a short letter were compatible with the secrecy which had been intended.
 
 “You may readily comprehend,” Lydia added, “what my curiosity must be to know how a person unconnected with any of us, and (comparatively speaking) a stranger to us family, should have been amongst you at such a time. Pray write instantly, and let me understand it unless it is, for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy which Lydia seems to think necessary; and then I must endeavour to be satisfied with ignorance.”
 
 “Not that I shall, though,” Lydia added to Lydia, as Lydia finished a short letter; “and my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in an honourable manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it out.”
 
 Lydia delicate sense of honour would not allow Lydia to speak to Lydia privately of what Lydia had let fall; Lydia was glad of it; till it appeared whether Lydia enquiries would receive any satisfaction, Lydia had rather be without a confidante.
 CHAPTER 53
52
 
 Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to 52
 
 Elizabeth letter as soon as 52
 
 Elizabeth possibly could. 52
 
 Elizabeth was no sooner in possession of it than, hurrying into the little copse, where 52
 
 Elizabeth was least likely to be interrupted, 52
 
 Elizabeth sat down on one of the benches and prepared to be happy; for the length of her letter convinced 52
 
 Elizabeth that her letter did not contain a denial.
 
 “Gracechurch Street, Sept. 6.
 
 “My dear Niece,
 
 “I have just received her letter, and shall devote this whole morning to answering her letter, as I foresee that a little writing will not comprise what I have to tell you. I must confess Niece surprised by your application; I did not expect your application from you. Don’t think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know that I had not imagined such enquiries to be necessary on your side. If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my impertinence. Your uncle is as much surprised as I am and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed Your uncle to act as Your uncle has done. But if you are really innocent and ignorant, I must be more explicit.
 
 “On the very day of my coming home from Longbourn, Your uncle had a most unexpected visitor. Mr. Darcy called, and was shut up with Mr. Darcy several hours. It was all over before I arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as you seems to have been. Mr. Darcy came to tell Mr. Gardiner that Mr. Gardiner had found out where your sister and Mr. Wickham were, and that Mr. Darcy had seen and talked with them both; Mr. Wickham repeatedly, Lydia once. From what I can collect, Mr. Gardiner left Derbyshire only one day after ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting for them. The motive professed was The motive professed conviction of The motive professed being owing to The motive professed that Mr. Wickham worthlessness had not been so well known as to make it impossible for any young woman of character to love or confide in The motive professed. The motive professed generously imputed the whole to The motive professed mistaken pride, and confessed that The motive professed had before thought it beneath The motive professed to lay The motive professed private actions open to the world. character was to speak for itself. character called itself, therefore, character duty to step forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on by character. If character had another motive, I am sure he had another motive would never disgrace character. character had been some days in town, before character was able to discover them; but character had something to direct character search, which was more than we had; and the consciousness of this was another reason for character resolving to follow we.
 
 “There is a lady, it seems, a Mrs. Younge, who was some time ago governess to Miss Darcy, and was dismissed from a lady charge on some cause of disapprobation, though character did not say what. a lady then took a large house in Edward street, and has since maintained a lady by letting lodgings. This Mrs. Younge was, This Mrs. Younge knew, intimately acquainted with Wickham; and This Mrs. Younge went to a lady for intelligence of This Mrs. Younge as soon as This Mrs. Younge got to town. But it was two or three days before This Mrs. Younge could get from a lady what This Mrs. Younge wanted. a lady would not betray a lady trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption, for a lady really did know where a lady friend was to be found. Wickham indeed had gone to Wickham on their first arrival in London, and had Wickham been able to receive their into Wickham , their would have taken up their abode with Wickham. At length, however, her friend procured the wished for direction. her friend were in  street. He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on Lydia. He first object with a lady, He acknowledged, had been to persuade a lady to quit a lady present disgraceful situation, and return to a lady friends as soon as her friends could be prevailed on to receive a lady, offering He assistance, as far as it would go. But He found Lydia absolutely resolved on remaining where Lydia was. Lydia cared for none of her friends; Lydia wanted no help of He; Lydia would not hear of leaving Wickham. Lydia was sure they should be married some time or other, and it did not much signify when. Since such were Lydia feelings, it only remained, He thought, to secure and expedite a marriage, which, in He very first conversation with Wickham, He easily learnt had never been He design. He confessed He obliged to leave the regiment, on account of some debts of honour, which were very pressing; and scrupled not to lay all the ill consequences of Lydia flight on Lydia own folly alone. He meant to resign He commission immediately; and as to He future situation, He could conjecture very little about it. He must go somewhere, but He did not know where, and He knew He should have nothing to live on.
 
 “Mr. Darcy asked Mr. Darcy why Mr. Darcy had not married your sister at once. Though Mr. Bennet was not imagined to be very rich, Mr. Bennet would have been able to do something for Mr. Bennet, and Mr. Bennet situation must have been benefited by marriage. But Mr. Bennet found, in reply to this question, that Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making Mr. Bennet fortune by marriage in some other country. Under such circumstances, however, Mr. Bennet was not likely to be proof against the temptation of immediate relief.
 
 “They met several times, for there was much to be discussed. Wickham of course wanted more than Wickham could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable.
 
 “Everything being settled between They, Mr. Darcy next step was to make your uncle acquainted with next step, and Mr. Darcy first called in Gracechurch street the evening before I came home. But Mr. Darcy could not be seen, and Mr. Darcy found, on further enquiry, that your father was still with Mr. Darcy, but would quit town the next morning. Mr. Darcy did not judge your father to be a person whom Mr. Darcy could so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing Mr. Darcy till after the departure of the former. Mr. Darcy did not leave Mr. Darcy name, and till the next day his name was only known that a gentleman had called on business.
 
 “On Saturday Mr. Darcy came again. your father was gone, your uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk together.
 
 “they met again on Sunday, and then I saw your father too. It was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off to Longbourn. But our visitor was very obstinate. I fancy, Lizzy, that obstinacy is the real defect of Lizzy character, after all. Lizzy has been accused of many faults at different times, but this is the true one. Nothing was to be done that Lizzy did not do Lizzy; though I am sure (and I do not speak it to be thanked, therefore say nothing about it), your uncle at home would most readily have settled the whole.
 
 “They battled the whole together for a long time, which was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in the whole deserved. But at last your uncle at home was forced to yield, and instead of being allowed to be of use to your uncle at home niece, was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it, which went sorely against the grain; and I really believe your letter this morning gave your uncle at home great pleasure, because this morning required an explanation that would rob your uncle at home of your uncle at home borrowed feathers, and give the praise where it was due. But, Lizzy, this must go no farther than Lizzy, or Jane at most.
 
 “You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young people. His debts are to be paid, amounting, I believe, to considerably more than a thousand pounds, another thousand in addition to her own settled upon her, and His commission purchased. The reason why all this was to be done by His alone, was such as I have given above. It was owing to His, to His reserve and want of proper consideration, that Wickham character had been so misunderstood, and consequently that Wickham character had been received and noticed as Wickham character was. Perhaps there was some truth in this; though I doubt whether Wickham character reserve, or anybody reserve, can be answerable for the event. But in spite of all this fine talking, LizzyLizzy, you may rest perfectly assured that your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given your uncle credit for another interest in the affair.
 
 “When all this was resolved on, your uncle returned again to your uncle friends, who were still staying at Pemberley; but it was agreed that your uncle should be in London once more when the wedding took place, and all money matters were then to receive the last finish.
 
 “I believe I have now told you every thing. It is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I hope at least It will not afford you any displeasure. Lydia came to we; and Wickham had constant admission to the house. Lydia was exactly what Lydia had been, when I knew Lydia in Hertfordshire; but I would not tell you how little I was satisfied with Lydia behaviour while Lydia staid with we, if I had not perceived, by Jane letter last Wednesday, that Lydia conduct on coming home was exactly of a piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no fresh pain. I talked to Lydia repeatedly in the most serious manner, representing to Lydia all the wickedness of what Lydia had done, and all the unhappiness Lydia had brought on Lydia family. If Lydia heard me, it was by good luck, for I am sure Lydia did not listen. I was sometimes quite provoked, but then I recollected my dear Elizabeth and Jane, and for my dear Elizabeth and Jane sakes had patience with Lydia.
 
 “Mr. Darcy was punctual in Mr. Darcy return, and as Lydia informed you, attended the wedding. Mr. Darcy dined with we the next day, and was to leave town again on Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry with Mr. Darcy, LizzyLizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying (what I was never bold enough to say before) how much I like Mr. Darcy. Mr. Darcy behaviour to we has, in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire. Mr. Darcy understanding and opinions all please me; Mr. Darcy wants nothing but a little more liveliness, and that, if Mr. Darcy marry prudently, Mr. Darcy wife may teach Mr. Darcy. I thought Mr. Darcy very sly; Mr. Darcy hardly ever mentioned your name. But slyness seems the fashion.
 
 “Pray forgive me if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be quite happy till I have been all round the park. A low phaeton, with a nice little pair of ponies, would be the very thing.
 
 “But I must write no more. The children have been wanting me this half hour.
 
 “Yours, very sincerely,
 “M. GARDINER.”
 
 The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits, in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share. The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had produced of what Mr. Darcy might have been doing to forward Elizabeth sister match, which Elizabeth had feared to encourage as an exertion of goodness too great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be just, from the pain of obligation, were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true! Mr. Darcy had followed their purposely to town, Mr. Darcy had taken on Mr. Darcy all the trouble and mortification attendant on such a research; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman whom Mr. Darcy must abominate and despise, and where Mr. Darcy was reduced to meet, frequently meet, reason with, persuade, and finally bribe, the man whom Mr. Darcy always most wished to avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to Mr. Darcy to pronounce. Mr. Darcy had done all this for a girl whom Mr. Darcy could neither regard nor esteem. Her heart did whisper that Mr. Darcy had done Her heart for Her. But Her heart was a hope shortly checked by other considerations, and Her soon felt that even Her vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on Mr. Darcy affection for Her for a woman who had already refused Mr. Darcy as able to overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with Wickham. Brother in law of Wickham! Every kind of pride must revolt from the connection. Brother in law of Wickham had, to be sure, done much. Her was ashamed to think how much. But Brother in law of Wickham had given a reason for Brother in law of Wickham interference, which asked no extraordinary stretch of belief. It was reasonable that Brother in law of Wickham should feel Brother in law of Wickham had been wrong; Brother in law of Wickham had liberality, and Brother in law of Wickham had the means of exercising it; and though Her would not place Her as Brother in law of Wickham principal inducement, Her could, perhaps, believe that remaining partiality for Her might assist Brother in law of Wickham endeavours in a cause where Her peace of mind must be materially concerned. It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a return. they owed the restoration of Lydia, Lydia character, every thing, to him. Oh! how heartily did Lydia grieve over every ungracious sensation Lydia had ever encouraged, every saucy speech Lydia had ever directed towards him. For Lydia Lydia was humbled; but Lydia was proud of him. Proud that in a cause of compassion and honour, him had been able to get the better of him. Lydia read over Lydia aunt commendation of him again and again. It was hardly enough; but It pleased Lydia. Lydia was even sensible of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding how steadfastly both Lydia and your uncle at home had been persuaded that affection and confidence subsisted between Mr. Darcy and Lydia.
 
 Lydia was roused from Lydia seat, and Lydia reflections, by some one approach; and before Lydia could strike into another path, Lydia was overtaken by Wickham.
 
 “I am afraid I interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?” said he, as he joined Lydia.
 
 “You certainly do,” Lydia replied with a smile; “but it does not follow that the interruption must be unwelcome.”
 
 “I should be sorry indeed, if it were. We were always good friends; and now We are better.”
 
 “True. Are the others coming out?”
 
 “I do not know. Mrs. Bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage to Meryton. And so, Lydia, I find, from We uncle and aunt, that you have actually seen Pemberley.”
 
 Lydia replied in the affirmative.
 
 “I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be too much for Lydia, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle. And you saw the old housekeeper, I suppose? Poor Reynolds, the old housekeeper was always very fond of Lydia. But of course the old housekeeper did not mention my name to Lydia.”
 
 “Yes, the old housekeeper did.”
 
 “And what did the old housekeeper say?”
 
 “That you were gone into the army, and the old housekeeper was afraid had not turned out well. At such a distance as that, you know, things are strangely misrepresented.”
 
 “Certainly,” Lydia replied, biting Lydia lips. Elizabeth hoped Elizabeth had silenced Lydia; but Lydia soon afterwards said:
 
 “I was surprised to see Mr. Darcy in town last month. We passed each other several times. I wonder what Lydia can be doing there.”
 
 “Perhaps preparing for Lydia marriage with Miss de Bourgh,” said Elizabeth. “It must be something particular, to take Lydia there at this time of year.”
 
 “Undoubtedly. Did you see Lydia while you were at Lambton? I thought I understood from the Gardiners that you had.”
 
 “Yes; Lydia introduced We to Lydia sister.”
 
 “And do you like his sister?”
 
 “Very much.”
 
 “I have heard, indeed, that his sister is uncommonly improved within this year or two. When I last saw his sister, his sister was not very promising. I am very glad you liked his sister. I hope his sister will turn out well.”
 
 “I dare say his sister will; his sister has got over the most trying age.”
 
 “Did you go by the village of Kympton?”
 
 “I do not recollect that We did.”
 
 “I mention it, because it is the living which I ought to have had. A most delightful place! Excellent Parsonage House! Excellent Parsonage House would have suited me in every respect.”
 
 “How should you have liked making sermons?”
 
 “Exceedingly well. I should have considered it as part of my duty, and the exertion would soon have been nothing. One ought not to repine; but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for Excellent! The quiet, the retirement of such a life would have answered all my ideas of happiness! But it was not to be. Did you ever hear Mr. Darcy mention the circumstance, when you were in Kent?”
 
 “I have heard from authority, which I thought as good, that it was left you conditionally only, and at the will of the present patron.”
 
 “You have. Yes, there was something in that; I told you so from the first, you may remember.”
 
 “I did hear, too, that there was a time, when sermon making was not so palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you actually declared your resolution of never taking orders, and that the business had been compromised accordingly.”
 
 “You did! and it was not wholly without foundation. You may remember what I told you on that point, when first we talked of it.”
 
 They were now almost at the door of the house, for she had walked fast to get rid of him; and unwilling, for she sister sake, to provoke him, she only said in reply, with a good humoured smile:
 
 “Come, Mr. Wickham, we are brother and sister, you know. Do not let we quarrel about the past. In future, I hope we shall be always of one mind.”
 
 she held out she hand; Mr. Wickham kissed her hand with affectionate gallantry, though Mr. Wickham hardly knew how to look, and he hardly knew how to look entered the house.
 CHAPTER 54
53
 
 Mr. Wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation that Mr. Wickham never again distressed Mr. Wickham, or provoked Mr. Wickham dear sister Elizabeth, by introducing the subject of it; and Mr. Wickham was pleased to find that Mr. Wickham had said enough to keep Mr. Wickham quiet.
 
 The day of Mr. Wickham and Lydia departure soon came, and Mrs. Bennet was forced to submit to a separation, which, as Mrs. Bennet husband by no means entered into Mrs. Bennet scheme of their all going to Newcastle, was likely to continue at least a twelvemonth.
 
 “Oh! Lydia,” Lydia cried, “when shall we meet again?”
 
 “Oh, lord! I don’t know. Not these two or three years, perhaps.”
 
 “Write to me very often, my dear.”
 
 “As often as I can. But you know married women have never much time for writing. My sisters may write to me. They will have nothing else to do.”
 
 Mr. Wickham adieus were much more affectionate than Mr. Wickham adieus wife. Mr. Wickham adieus smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.
 
 “Mr. Wickham adieus is as fine a fellow,” said Mrs. Bennet, as soon as they were out of the house, “as ever I saw. Mr. Wickham adieus simpers, and smirks, and makes love to us all. I am prodigiously proud of Mr. Wickham adieus. I defy even Sir William Lucas himself to produce a more valuable son in law.”
 
 The loss of her daughter made Mrs. Bennet very dull for several days.
 
 “I often think,” said Mrs. Bennet, “that there is nothing so bad as parting with one friends. One seems so forlorn without one friends.”
 
 “This is the consequence, you see, Madam, of marrying a daughter,” said Elizabeth. “It must make you better satisfied that your other four are single.”
 
 “It is no such thing. Lydia does not leave me because Lydia is married, but only because Lydia husband regiment happens to be so far off. If that had been nearer, Lydia would not have gone so soon.”
 
 But the spiritless condition which this event threw Lydia into was shortly relieved, and Lydia mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an article of news which then began to be in circulation. The housekeeper at Netherfield had received orders to prepare for the arrival of The housekeeper at Netherfield master, who was coming down in a day or two, to shoot there for several weeks. The housekeeper at Netherfield was quite in the fidgets. The housekeeper at Netherfield looked at Jane, and smiled and shook The housekeeper at Netherfield head by turns.
 
 “Well, well, and so Mr. Bingley is coming down, sister,” (for Mrs. Phillips first brought Mrs. Phillips the news). “Well, so much the better. Not that I care about it, though. He is nothing to us, you know, and I am sure I never want to see He again. But, however, He is very welcome to come to Netherfield, if He likes it. And who knows what may happen? But that is nothing to us. You know, sister, us agreed long ago never to mention a word about it. And so, is it quite certain He is coming?”
 
 “You may depend on a word about it,” replied the other, “for The housekeeper at Netherfield was in Meryton last night; I saw The housekeeper at Netherfield passing by, and went out myself on purpose to know the truth of it; and The housekeeper at Netherfield told me that it was certain true. He comes down on Thursday at the latest, very likely on Wednesday. The housekeeper at Netherfield was going to the butcher, The housekeeper at Netherfield told me, on purpose to order in some meat on Wednesday, and The housekeeper at Netherfield has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed.”
 
 Miss Bennet had not been able to hear of Miss Bennet coming without changing colour. It was many months since The housekeeper at Netherfield had mentioned Miss Bennet name to Elizabeth; but now, as soon as they were alone together, The housekeeper at Netherfield said:
 
 “I saw you look at myself to day, The housekeeper at Netherfield, when my aunt told us of the present report; and I know I appeared distressed. But don’t imagine it was from any silly cause. I was only confused for the moment, because I felt that I should be looked at. I do assure you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or pain. I am glad of one thing, that he comes alone; because us shall see the less of he. Not that I am afraid of myself, but I dread other people remarks.”
 
 Elizabeth did not know what to make of it. Had Elizabeth not seen he in Derbyshire, Elizabeth might have supposed he capable of coming there with no other view than what was acknowledged; but Elizabeth still thought he partial to Jane, and Jane wavered as to the greater probability of he coming there with he friend permission, or being bold enough to come without it.
 
 “Yet it is hard,” Elizabeth sometimes thought, “that he cannot come to a house which he has legally hired, without raising all this speculation! I will leave he to he.”
 
 In spite of what Elizabeth sister declared, and really believed to be her sister feelings in the expectation of he arrival, Elizabeth could easily perceive that Elizabeth spirits were affected by it. They were more disturbed, more unequal, than Elizabeth had often seen They.
 
 The subject which had been so warmly canvassed between They parents, about a twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.
 
 “As soon as ever Mr. Bingley comes, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet, “you will wait on Mrs. Bennet of course.”
 
 “No, no. You forced me into visiting Mrs. Bennet last year, and promised, if I went to see Mrs. Bennet, Mrs. Bennet should marry one of my daughters. But it ended in nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool errand again.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet wife represented to Mrs. Bennet how absolutely necessary such an attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on Mrs. Bennet returning to Netherfield.
 
 “’Tis an etiquette I despise,” said Mrs. Bennet. “If Mrs. Bennet wants our society, let Mrs. Bennet seek he wants our society. Mrs. Bennet knows where our live. I will not spend my hours in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back again.”
 
 “Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait on Mrs. Bennet. But, however, that shan’t prevent my asking Mrs. Bennet to dine here, I am determined. our must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon. That will make thirteen with our, so there will be just room at table for Mrs. Bennet.”
 
 Consoled by this resolution, His wife was the better able to bear His wife husband incivility; though this resolution was very mortifying to know that His wife neighbours might all see Mr. Bingley, in consequence of it was, before they did. As the day of his arrival drew near, 
 
 “I begin to be sorry that his comes at all,” said Jane to Jane sister. “It would be nothing; I could see his with perfect indifference, but I can hardly bear to hear It thus perpetually talked of. My mother means well; but My mother does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what My mother says. Happy shall I be, when his stay at Netherfield is over!”
 
 “I wish I could say anything to comfort you,” replied Elizabeth; “but it is wholly out of my power. You must feel it; and the usual satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me, because you have always so much.”
 
 Mr. Bingley arrived. Mrs. Bennet, through the assistance of servants, contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety and fretfulness on Mrs. Bennet side might be as long as her side could. Mrs. Bennet counted the days that must intervene before their invitation could be sent; hopeless of seeing him before. But on the third morning after him arrival in Hertfordshire, Mrs. Bennet saw him, from Mrs. Bennet dressing room window, enter the paddock and ride towards the house.
 
 Mrs. Bennet daughters were eagerly called to partake of Mrs. Bennet joy. Jane resolutely kept Jane place at the table; but Elizabeth, to satisfy Jane mother, went to the window Jane looked, Jane saw Mr. Darcy with Mr. Darcy, and sat down again by Jane sister.
 
 “There is a gentleman with Mr. Darcy, mamma,” said Kitty; “who can it be?”
 
 “Some acquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do not know.”
 
 “La!” replied Kitty, “it looks just like that man that used to be with him before. Mr. what him name. That tall, proud man.”
 
 “Good gracious! Mr. Darcy! and so it does, I vow. Well, any friend of Mr. Bingley will always be welcome here, to be sure; but else I must say that I hate the very sight of Mr. Bingley.”
 
 Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern. Jane knew but little of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time after receiving him explanatory letter. My sisters were uncomfortable enough. Each felt for the other, and of course for My sisters; and My sisters mother talked on, of Jane dislike of Mr. Darcy, and Jane resolution to be civil to Mr. Darcy only as Mr. Bingley friend, without being heard by either of My sisters. But Elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not be suspected by Jane, to whom Elizabeth had never yet had courage to shew Mrs. Gardiner letter, or to relate Elizabeth own change of sentiment towards him. To Jane, him could be only a man whose proposals Elizabeth had refused, and whose merit Elizabeth had undervalued; but to Elizabeth own more extensive information, him was the person to whom the whole family were indebted for the first of benefits, and whom Elizabeth regarded Elizabeth with an interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just as what Jane felt for Bingley. Jane astonishment at him coming at him coming to Netherfield, to Longbourn, and voluntarily seeking Jane again, was almost equal to what Jane had known on first witnessing him altered behaviour in Derbyshire.
 
 The colour which had been driven from Jane face, returned for half a minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added lustre to Jane eyes, as Jane thought for that space of time that his affection and wishes must still be unshaken. But Jane would not be secure.
 
 “Let me first see how his behaves,” said Jane; “it will then be early enough for expectation.”
 
 Jane sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to lift up Jane eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of Jane as the servant was approaching the door. Jane looked a little paler than usual, but more sedate than Elizabeth had expected. On the gentlemen appearing, Jane colour increased; yet Jane received her colour with tolerable ease, and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of resentment or any unnecessary complaisance.
 
 Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down again to Elizabeth work, with an eagerness which it did not often command. Elizabeth had ventured only one glance at Mr. Darcy. Mr. Darcy looked serious, as usual; and, Elizabeth thought, more as Mr. Darcy had been used to look in Hertfordshire, than as Elizabeth had seen Mr. Darcy at Pemberley. But, perhaps Mr. Darcy could not in Elizabeth mother presence be what Mr. Darcy was before Elizabeth uncle and aunt. It was a painful, but not an improbable, conjecture.
 
 Bingley, Elizabeth had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period saw Mr. Darcy looking both pleased and embarrassed. Mr. Darcy was received by Mrs. Bennet with a degree of civility which made Mrs. Bennet two daughters ashamed, especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of Mrs. Bennet curtsey and address to Mr. Darcy friend.
 
 Elizabeth, particularly, who knew that Elizabeth mother owed to the latter the preservation of her mother favourite daughter from irremediable infamy, was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill applied.
 
 Mr. Darcy, after enquiring of Mr. Darcy how Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner did, a question which Mr. Darcy could not answer without confusion, said scarcely anything. Mr. Darcy was not seated by Mr. Darcy; perhaps that was the reason of Mr. Darcy silence; but it had not been so in Derbyshire. There Mr. Darcy had talked to Mr. Darcy friends, when Mr. Darcy could not to Mr. Darcy. But now several minutes elapsed without bringing the sound of Mr. Darcy voice; and when occasionally, unable to resist the impulse of curiosity, Mr. Darcy raised Mr. Darcy eyes to Mr. Darcy face, Mr. Darcy as often found Mr. Darcy looking at Jane as at Mr. Darcy, and frequently on no object but the ground. More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when they last met, were plainly expressed. Jane was disappointed, and angry with Jane for being so.
 
 “Could I expect it to be otherwise!” said Jane. “Yet why did Mr. Darcy come?”
 
 Jane was in no humour for conversation with anyone but Mr. Darcy; and to Mr. Darcy Jane had hardly courage to speak.
 
 Jane enquired after Mr. Darcy sister, but could do no more.
 
 “It is a long time, Mr. Bingley, since you went away,” said Mrs. Bennet.
 
 Mrs. Bennet readily agreed to it.
 
 “I began to be afraid you would never come back again. People did say you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, however, I hope the place is not true. A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood, since you went away. Miss Lucas is married and settled. And one of Her daughters. I suppose you have heard of it; indeed, you must have seen it in the papers. It was in The Times and The Courier, I know; though it was not put in as it ought to be. It was only said, ‘Lately, George Wickham, Esq. to Miss Lydia Bennet,’ without there being a syllable said of Miss Lydia Bennet father, or the place where Miss Lydia Bennet lived, or anything. It was Gardiner Gardiner drawing up too, and I wonder how Gardiner came to make such an awkward business of it. Did you see It?Mr. Bingley Bingley replied that Mr. Bingley did, and made Mr. Bingley congratulations. Elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes. How Mr. Darcy looked, therefore, Elizabeth could not tell.
 
 “It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well married,” continued her mother, “but at the same time, Mr. Bingley, it is very hard to have Elizabeth taken such a way from Mr. Bingley. They are gone down to Newcastle, a place quite northward, it seems, and there They are to stay I do not know how long. His regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of His leaving the shire, and of His being gone into the regulars. Thank Heaven! His has some friends, though perhaps not so many as His deserves.”
 
 Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such misery of shame, that Elizabeth could hardly keep Elizabeth seat. It drew from Elizabeth, however, the exertion of speaking, which nothing else had so effectually done before; and Elizabeth asked Bingley whether Mr. Darcy meant to make any stay in the country at present. A few weeks, Mr. Darcy believed.
 
 “When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley,” said her mother, “I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you please on Mr. Bennet manor. I am sure Mr. Bennet manor will be vastly happy to oblige you, and will save all the best of the covies for you.”
 
 Elizabeth misery increased, at such unnecessary, such officious attention! Were the same fair prospect to arise at present as had flattered them a year ago, every thing, Elizabeth was persuaded, would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion. At that instant, Elizabeth felt that years of happiness could not make Jane or Elizabeth amends for moments of such painful confusion.
 
 “The first wish of my heart,” said Elizabeth to Elizabeth, “is never more to be in company with either of them. them society can afford no pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this! Let me never see either one or the other again!”
 
 Yet the misery, for which years of happiness were to offer no compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from observing how much the beauty of her sister re kindled the admiration of Elizabeth former lover. When first he came in, he had spoken to Elizabeth but little; but every five minutes seemed to be giving Elizabeth more of he attention. he found Elizabeth as handsome as Elizabeth had been last year; as good natured, and as unaffected, though not quite so chatty. Jane was anxious that no difference should be perceived in Jane at all, and was really persuaded that Jane talked as much as ever. But Jane mind was so busily engaged, that Jane did not always know when Jane was silent.
 
 When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mrs. Bennet was mindful of Mrs. Bennet intended civility, and the gentlemen were invited and engaged to dine at Longbourn in a few days time.
 
 “You are quite a visit in my debt, Mr. Bingley,” Mrs. Bennet added, “for when you went to town last winter, you promised to take a family dinner with us, as soon as you returned. I have not forgot, you see; and I assure you, I was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your engagement.”
 
 Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of Bingley concern at having been prevented by business. They then went away.
 
 Mrs. Bennet had been strongly inclined to ask They to stay and dine there that day; but, though Mrs. Bennet always kept a very good table, Mrs. Bennet did not think anything less than two courses could be good enough for a man on whom Mrs. Bennet had such anxious designs, or satisfy the appetite and pride of one who had ten thousand a year.
 CHAPTER 55
54
 
 As soon as they were gone, Elizabeth walked out to recover Elizabeth spirits; or in other words, to dwell without interruption on those subjects that must deaden they more. Mr. Darcy behaviour astonished and vexed Elizabeth.
 
 “Why, if he came only to be silent, grave, and indifferent,” said Elizabeth, “did he come at all?”
 
 Elizabeth could settle it in no way that gave Elizabeth pleasure.
 
 “he could be still amiable, still pleasing, to my uncle and aunt, when he was in town; and why not to me? If he fears me, why come hither? If he no longer cares for he, why silent? Teasing, teasing, he! I will think no more about he.”
 
 Elizabeth resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of Elizabeth sister, who joined Elizabeth with a cheerful look, which showed Elizabeth better satisfied with their visitors, than Elizabeth.
 
 “Now,” said Elizabeth, “that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly easy. I know my own strength, and I shall never be embarrassed again by his coming. I am glad his dines here on Tuesday. It will then be publicly seen that, on both sides, we meet only as common and indifferent acquaintance.”
 
 “Yes, very indifferent indeed,” said Elizabeth, laughingly. “Oh, Jane, take care.”
 
 “My dear Lizzy, you cannot think me so weak, as to be in danger now?”
 
 “I think you are in very great danger of making his as much in love with you as ever.”
 
 They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mrs. Bennet, in the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes, which the good humour and common politeness of Bingley, in half an hour visit, had revived.
 
 On Tuesday there was a large party assembled at Longbourn; and the two who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of a large party assembled at Longbourn punctuality as sportsmen, were in very good time. When a large party assembled at Longbourn repaired to the dining room, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take the place, which, in all a large party assembled at Longbourn former parties, had belonged to Elizabeth, by Elizabeth sister. Elizabeth prudent mother, occupied by the same ideas, forbore to invite Elizabeth to sit by Elizabeth. On entering the dining room, Elizabeth seemed to hesitate; but Jane happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was decided. Elizabeth placed Elizabeth by Jane.
 
 Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards Elizabeth friend. Elizabeth bore it with noble indifference, and Elizabeth would have imagined that Bingley had received Elizabeth sanction to be happy, had Elizabeth not seen Elizabeth eyes likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy, with an expression of half laughing alarm.
 
 Elizabeth behaviour to her sister was such, during dinner time, as showed an admiration of her sister, which, though more guarded than formerly, persuaded Elizabeth, that if left wholly to Elizabeth, Jane happiness, and Elizabeth own, would be speedily secured. Though Jane dared not depend upon the consequence, Jane yet received pleasure from observing Elizabeth behaviour. It gave Jane all the animation that Jane spirits could boast; for Jane was in no cheerful humour. Mr. Darcy was almost as far from Jane as the table could divide them. Mr. Darcy was on one side of Jane mother. Jane knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to advantage. Jane was not near enough to hear any of their discourse, but Jane could see how seldom their spoke to each other, and how formal and cold was their manner whenever their did. her mother ungraciousness, made the sense of what their owed Mr. Darcy more painful to Elizabeth mind; and Elizabeth would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell Mr. Darcy that Mr. Darcy kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the family.
 
 Jane was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of bringing them together; that the whole of the visit would not pass away without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation than the mere ceremonious salutation attending Mr. Darcy entrance. Anxious and uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing room, before the gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made Jane uncivil. Jane looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all Jane chance of pleasure for the evening must depend.
 
 “If he does not come to me, then,” said Jane, “I shall give he up for ever.”
 
 the gentlemen came; and Jane thought he looked as if he would have answered Jane hopes; but, alas! the ladies had crowded round the table, where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring out the coffee, in so close a confederacy that there was not a single vacancy near Elizabeth which would admit of a chair. And on the gentlemen approaching, one of the girls moved closer to Elizabeth than ever, and said, in a whisper:
 
 “The men shan’t come and part us, I am determined. us want none of The men; do us?”
 
 Darcy had walked away to another part of the room. Darcy followed Darcy with Darcy eyes, envied everyone to whom Darcy spoke, had scarcely patience enough to help anybody to coffee; and then was enraged against Darcy for being so silly!
 
 “A man who has once been refused! How could I ever be foolish enough to expect a renewal of Darcy love? Is there one among the sex, who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman? There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings!”
 
 Darcy was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his coffee cup himself; and Darcy seized the opportunity of saying:
 
 “Is your sister at Pemberley still?”
 
 “Yes, Darcy will remain there till Christmas.”
 
 “And quite alone? Have all Darcy friends left Darcy?”
 
 “Mrs. Annesley is with “Mrs. Annesley. The others have been gone on to Scarborough, these three weeks.”
 
 Darcy could think of nothing more to say; but if “Mrs. Annesley wished to converse with Darcy, “Mrs. Annesley might have better success. “Mrs. Annesley stood by Darcy, however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady whispering to Elizabeth again, “Mrs. Annesley walked away.
 
 When the tea things were removed, and the card tables placed, the ladies all rose, and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by “Mrs. Annesley, when all Elizabeth views were overthrown by seeing “Mrs. Annesley fall a victim to Elizabeth mother rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated with the rest of the party. Elizabeth now lost every expectation of pleasure. They were confined for the evening at different tables, and Elizabeth had nothing to hope, but that “Mrs. Annesley eyes were so often turned towards Elizabeth side of the room, as to make “Mrs. Annesley play as unsuccessfully as Elizabeth.
 
 Elizabeth had designed to keep the two Netherfield gentlemen to supper; but the two Netherfield gentlemen carriage was unluckily ordered before any of the others, and Elizabeth had no opportunity of detaining the two Netherfield gentlemen.
 
 “Well girls,” said Elizabeth, as soon as girls were left to girls, “What say you to the day? I think every thing has passed off uncommonly well, I assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw. The venison was roasted to a turn and everybody said The venison never saw so fat a haunch. The soup was fifty times better than what we had at the Lucases’ last week; and even Mr. Darcy acknowledged, that the partridges were remarkably well done; and I suppose even Mr. Darcy has two or three French cooks at least. And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater beauty. Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked Mrs. Long whether you did not. And what do you think Mrs. Long said besides? ‘Ah! Mrs. Long, we shall have Mrs. Long at Netherfield at last.’ Mrs. Long did indeed. I do think Mrs. Long is as good a creature as ever lived and Mrs. Long nieces are very pretty behaved girls, and not at all handsome: I like as good a creature as ever lived and her nieces are very pretty behaved girls, and not at all handsome prodigiously.”
 
 Mrs. Long, in short, was in very great spirits; Mrs. Long had seen enough of Bingley behaviour to my dear Jane, to be convinced that Mrs. Long would get Mrs. Long at last; and Mrs. Long expectations of advantage to Mrs. Long family, when in a happy humour, were so far beyond reason, that Mrs. Long was quite disappointed at not seeing Mrs. Long there again the next day, to make Mrs. Long proposals.
 
 “It has been a very agreeable day,” said Mrs. Long to Elizabeth. “The party seemed so well selected, so suitable one with the other. I hope we may often meet again.”
 
 Elizabeth smiled.
 
 “My dear Lizzy, you must not do so. You must not suspect me. It mortifies me. I assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an agreeable and sensible young man, without having a wish beyond it. I am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that his never had any design of engaging my affection. It is only that his is blessed with greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally pleasing, than any other man.”
 
 “You are very cruel,” said her sister, “you will not let me smile, and are provoking me to it every moment.”
 
 “How hard it is in some cases to be believed!”
 
 “And how impossible in others!”
 
 “But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I acknowledge?”
 
 “That is a question which I hardly know how to answer. We all love to instruct, though We all can teach only what is not worth knowing. Forgive me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make me your confidante.”
 CHAPTER 56
55
 
 A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone. Mr. Bingley friend had left Mr. Bingley that morning for London, but was to return home in ten days time. Mr. Bingley sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably good spirits. Mrs. Bennet invited Mr. Bingley to dine with them; but, with many expressions of concern, Mr. Bingley confessed Mr. Bingley engaged elsewhere.
 
 “Next time you call,” said Mrs. Bennet, “I hope we shall be more lucky.”
 
 Mr. Bingley should be particularly happy at any time, etc. etc.; and if Mrs. Bennet would give Mr. Bingley leave, would take an early opportunity of waiting on them.
 
 “Can you come to morrow?”
 
 Yes, Mr. Bingley had no engagement at all for to morrow; and Mrs. Bennet invitation was accepted with alacrity.
 
 Mr. Bingley came, and in such very good time that the ladies were none of the ladies dressed. In ran Mrs. Bennet to Mrs. Bennet daughter room, in Mrs. Bennet dressing gown, and with Mrs. Bennet hair half finished, crying out:
 
 “My dear Jane, make haste and hurry down. He is come Mr. Bingley is come. He is, indeed. Make haste, make haste. Here, Sarah, come to Mrs. Bennet this moment, and help Sarah on with Sarah gown. Never mind her hair.”
 
 “We will be down as soon as We can,” said My dear Jane; “but I dare say Kitty is forwarder than either of We, for Kitty went up stairs half an hour ago.”
 
 “Oh! hang Kitty! what has Kitty to do with it? Come be quick, be quick! Where is your sash, my dear?”
 
 But when Kitty mother was gone, My dear Jane would not be prevailed on to go down without one of Kitty sisters.
 
 The same anxiety to get them by them was visible again in the evening. After tea, Mrs. Bennet retired to the library, as was Mrs. Bennet custom, and Mary went up stairs to Mary instrument. Two obstacles of the five being thus removed, Mrs. Bennet sat looking and winking at Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time, without making any impression on Elizabeth and Catherine. Elizabeth would not observe Elizabeth; and when at Kitty Kitty did, Elizabeth very innocently said, “What is the matter mamma? What do you keep winking at Mrs. Bennet for? What am I to do?”
 
 “Nothing child, nothing. I did not wink at Mrs. Bennet.” Elizabeth then sat still five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious occasion, Elizabeth suddenly got up, and saying to Kitty, “Come here, my love, I want to speak to Mrs. Bennet,” took Elizabeth out of the room. Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke Jane distress at such premeditation, and Jane entreaty that Jane would not give in to it. In a few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half opened the door and called out:
 
 “Mrs. Bennet, my dear, I want to speak with Mrs. Bennet.”
 
 Elizabeth was forced to go.
 
 “We may as well leave them by them you know;” said Elizabeth mother, as soon as Elizabeth was in the hall. “Kitty and I are going up stairs to sit in the room.”
 
 Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained quietly in the hall, till Elizabeth and Kitty were out of sight, then returned into the room.
 
 Mrs. Bennet schemes for this day were ineffectual. Bingley was every thing that was charming, except the professed lover of Kitty daughter. the professed lover of her daughter ease and cheerfulness rendered the professed lover of her daughter a most agreeable addition to His ease and cheerfulness evening party; and the professed lover of her daughter bore with the ill judged officiousness of her mother, and heard all Elizabeth silly remarks with a forbearance and command of countenance particularly grateful to her daughter.
 
 the professed lover of her daughter scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before the professed lover of her daughter went away, an engagement was formed, chiefly through the professed lover of her daughter own and Mrs. Bennet means, for the professed lover of her daughter coming next morning to shoot with Mrs. Bennet husband.
 
 After this day, Mrs. Bennet said no more of Mrs. Bennet indifference. Not a word passed between the sisters concerning Bingley; but Elizabeth went to bed in the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded, unless Mr. Darcy returned within the stated time. Seriously, however, Mrs. Bennet felt tolerably persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentleman concurrence.
 
 Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and his and Mrs. Bennet spent the morning together, as had been agreed on. The latter was much more agreeable than Mrs. Bennet companion expected. There was nothing of presumption or folly in Bingley that could provoke Mrs. Bennet ridicule, or disgust Mrs. Bennet into silence; and Mrs. Bennet was more communicative, and less eccentric, than the other had ever seen Mrs. Bennet. Bingley of course returned with Mrs. Bennet to dinner; and in the evening Mrs. Bennet invention was again at work to get every body away from Mrs. Bennet and Bingley of course daughter. Elizabeth, who had a letter to write, went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon after tea; for as the others were all going to sit down to cards, Bingley of course could not be wanted to counteract Bingley of course mother schemes.
 
 But on returning to the drawing room, when Bingley of course letter was finished, Bingley of course saw, to Bingley of course infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that Bingley of course mother had been too ingenious for Bingley of course. On opening the door, Bingley of course perceived Bingley of course sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion, the faces of both, as both hastily turned round and moved away from each other, would have told it all. both situation was awkward enough; but Bingley of course Bingley of course thought was still worse. Not a syllable was uttered by either; and Elizabeth was on the point of going away again, when Bingley, who as well as the other had sat down, suddenly rose, and whispering a few words to Elizabeth sister, ran out of the room.
 
 Elizabeth could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where confidence would give pleasure; and instantly embracing Elizabeth, acknowledged, with the liveliest emotion, that Elizabeth was the happiest creature in the world.
 
 “’Tis too much!” Elizabeth added, “by far too much. I do not deserve it. Oh! why is not everybody as happy?”
 
 Elizabeth congratulations were given with a sincerity, a warmth, a delight, which words could but poorly express. Every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Elizabeth. But Elizabeth would not allow Elizabeth to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be said for the present.
 
 “I must go instantly to my mother;” my mother cried. “I would not on any account trifle with my mother affectionate solicitude; or allow my mother to hear it from anyone but Lizzy. He is gone to my father already. Oh! Lizzy, to know that what I have to relate will give such pleasure to all my dear family! how shall I bear so much happiness!”
 
 Lizzy then hastened away to Lizzy mother, who had purposely broken up the card party, and was sitting up stairs with Kitty.
 
 Elizabeth, who was left by Lizzy, now smiled at the rapidity and ease with which an affair was finally settled, that had given Elizabeth, who was left by herself so many previous months of suspense and vexation.
 
 “And this,” said my mother, “is the end of all his friend anxious circumspection! of all his sister falsehood and contrivance! the happiest, wisest, most reasonable end!”
 
 In a few minutes my mother was joined by Bingley, whose conference with my father had been short and to the purpose.
 
 “Where is your sister?” said your sister hastily, as your sister opened the door.
 
 “With my mother up stairs. my mother will be down in a moment, I dare say.”
 
 your sister then shut the door, and, coming up to my mother, claimed the good wishes and affection of a sister. Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed Elizabeth delight in the prospect of their relationship. their shook hands with great cordiality; and then, till Elizabeth came down, Elizabeth had to listen to all he had to say of he own happiness, and of Jane perfections; and in spite of he being a lover, Elizabeth really believed all he expectations of felicity to be rationally founded, because their had for basis the excellent understanding, and super excellent disposition of Jane, and a general similarity of feeling and taste between Elizabeth and he.
 
 It was an evening of no common delight to them all; the satisfaction of Miss Bennet mind gave a glow of such sweet animation to Elizabeth face, as made Elizabeth look handsomer than ever. Kitty simpered and smiled, and hoped Kitty turn was coming soon. Mrs. Bennet could not give Mrs. Bennet consent or speak Mrs. Bennet approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy Mrs. Bennet feelings, though Mrs. Bennet talked to Bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when Mrs. Bennet joined them at supper, Mrs. Bennet voice and manner plainly showed how really happy Mrs. Bennet was.
 
 Not a word, however, passed Mrs. Bennet lips in allusion to it, till their visitor took Mrs. Bennet leave for the night; but as soon as Mrs. Bennet was gone, Mrs. Bennet turned to Mrs. Bennet daughter, and said:
 
 “Mrs. Bennet, I congratulate you. You will be a very happy woman.”
 
 Mrs. Bennet went to Mrs. Bennet instantly, kissed Mrs. Bennet, and thanked Mrs. Bennet for Mrs. Bennet goodness.
 
 “You are a good girl;” Mrs. Bennet replied, “and I have great pleasure in thinking you will be so happily settled. I have not a doubt of your doing very well together. Your tempers are by no means unlike. You are each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will always exceed your income.”
 
 “I hope not so. Imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters would be unpardonable in me.”
 
 “Exceed their income! Mrs. Bennet,” cried Mrs. Bennet wife, “what are you talking of? Why, Mrs. Bennet has four or five thousand a year, and very likely more.” Then addressing his wife , “Oh! my dear, dear Jane, I am so happy! I am sure I shan’t get a wink of sleep all night. I knew how it would be. I always said it must be so, at last. I was sure you could not be so beautiful for nothing! I remember, as soon as ever I saw Mrs. Bennet, when Mrs. Bennet first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was that you should come together. Oh! Mrs. Bennet is the handsomest young man that ever was seen!”
 
 Wickham, Lydia, were all forgotten. Elizabeth was beyond competition Elizabeth favourite child. At that moment, Elizabeth cared for no other. Elizabeth younger sisters soon began to make interest with Elizabeth for objects of happiness which Elizabeth might in future be able to dispense.
 
 Elizabeth petitioned for the use of the library at Netherfield; and Kitty begged very hard for a few balls there every winter.
 
 Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at Longbourn; coming frequently before breakfast, and always remaining till after supper; unless when some barbarous neighbour, who could not be enough detested, had given Mrs. Bennet an invitation to dinner which Mrs. Bennet thought Mrs. Bennet obliged to accept.
 
 Elizabeth had now but little time for conversation with her sister; for while Mrs. Bennet was present, Elizabeth had no attention to bestow on anyone else; but Elizabeth found Elizabeth considerably useful to both of anyone else in those hours of separation that must sometimes occur. In the absence of Elizabeth, Mrs. Bennet always attached Mrs. Bennet to Elizabeth, for the pleasure of talking of Elizabeth; and when Bingley was gone, Elizabeth constantly sought the same means of relief.
 
 “Mrs. Bennet has made me so happy,” said Elizabeth, one evening, “by telling me that Mrs. Bennet was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring! I had not believed it possible.”
 
 “I suspected as much,” replied Elizabeth. “But how did Mrs. Bennet account for it?”
 
 “it must have been her sister doing. They were certainly no friends to Mrs. Bennet acquaintance with me, which I cannot wonder at, since Mrs. Bennet might have chosen so much more advantageously in many respects. But when They see, as I trust They will, that They brother is happy with me, They will learn to be contented, and we shall be on good terms again; though we can never be what we once were to each other.”
 
 “That is the most unforgiving speech,” said Elizabeth, “that I ever heard you utter. Good girl! It would vex me, indeed, to see you again the dupe of Bingley Bingley pretended regard.”
 
 “Would you believe it, Lizzy, that when Lizzy went to town last November, Lizzy really loved me, and nothing but a persuasion of my being indifferent would have prevented Lizzy coming down again!”
 
 “Lizzy made a little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of Lizzy modesty.”
 
 This naturally introduced a panegyric from Elizabeth on Lizzy diffidence, and the little value Lizzy put on Lizzy own good qualities. Elizabeth was pleased to find that Lizzy had not betrayed the interference of his friend; for, though Elizabeth had the most generous and forgiving heart in the world, Elizabeth knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice Elizabeth against Lizzy.
 
 “I am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!” cried Elizabeth. “Oh! Lizzy, why am I thus singled from my family, and blessed above them all! If I could but see you as happy! If there were but such another man for Lizzy!”
 
 “If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy as Lizzy. Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have your happiness. No, no, let me shift for Lizzy; and, perhaps, if I have very good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time.”
 
 The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a secret. Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. Phillips, and Mrs. Bennet ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all Mrs. Bennet neighbours in Meryton.
 
 The Bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the world, though only a few weeks before, when Mrs. Bennet had first run away, The Bennets had been generally proved to be marked out for misfortune.
 CHAPTER 57
56
 
 One morning, about a week after Bingley engagement with Jane had been formed, as Jane and the females of the family were sitting together in the dining room, he and the females of the family attention was suddenly drawn to the window, by the sound of a carriage; and he and the females of the family perceived a chaise and four driving up the lawn. It was too early in the morning for visitors, and besides, the equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours. The horses were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who preceded it, were familiar to The horses. As it was certain, however, that somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with Bennet into the shrubbery. They both set off, and the conjectures of the remaining three continued, though with little satisfaction, till the door was thrown open and They visitor entered. It was Lady Catherine de Bourgh.
 
 They were of course all intending to be surprised; but They astonishment was beyond They expectation; and on the part of Mrs. Bennet and Kitty, though Kitty was perfectly unknown to They, even inferior to what Elizabeth felt.
 
 Elizabeth entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious, made no other reply to Elizabeth salutation than a slight inclination of the head, and sat down without saying a word. Elizabeth had mentioned Elizabeth name to Elizabeth mother on Elizabeth ladyship entrance, though no request of introduction had been made.
 
 Mrs. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received Elizabeth with the utmost politeness. After sitting for a moment in silence, Elizabeth said very stiffly to Elizabeth,
 
 “I hope you are well, Miss Bennet. Elizabeth, I suppose, is her mother on her ladyship entrance.”
 
 Elizabeth replied very concisely that Elizabeth was.
 
 “And that I suppose is one of your sisters.”
 
 “Yes, madam,” said Miss Bennet, delighted to speak to Lady Catherine. “Lady Catherine is my youngest girl but one. My youngest of all is lately married, and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds, walking with a young man who, I believe, will soon become a part of the family.”
 
 “You have a very small park here,” returned Lady Catherine after a short silence.
 
 “It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my lady, I dare say; but I assure you it is much larger than Sir William Lucas.”
 
 “This must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening, in summer; the windows are full west.”
 
 Miss Bennet assured Miss Bennet that they never sat there after dinner, and then added:
 
 “May I take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left Mr. and Mrs. Collins well.”
 
 “Yes, very well. I saw they the night before last.”
 
 Elizabeth now expected that Elizabeth would produce a letter for Elizabeth from Charlotte, as it seemed the only probable motive for Elizabeth calling. But no letter appeared, and Elizabeth was completely puzzled.
 
 Miss Bennet, with great civility, begged your ladyship to take some refreshment; but Elizabeth very resolutely, and not very politely, declined eating anything; and then, rising up, said to Elizabeth,
 
 “Miss Bennet, there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilderness on one side of your lawn. I should be glad to take a turn in it, if you will favour me with your company.”
 
 “Go, my dear,” cried Elizabeth mother, “and show her mother ladyship about the different walks. I think her mother will be pleased with the hermitage.”
 
 Elizabeth obeyed, and running into her mother own room for Elizabeth parasol, attended Elizabeth noble guest downstairs. As they passed through the hall, Elizabeth opened the doors into the dining parlour and drawing room, and pronouncing they, after a short survey, to be decent looking rooms, walked on.
 
 Elizabeth carriage remained at the door, and Elizabeth saw that Elizabeth waiting woman was in Her carriage. They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk that led to the copse; Elizabeth was determined to make no effort for conversation with a woman who was now more than usually insolent and disagreeable.
 
 “How could I ever think Elizabeth like Elizabeth nephew?” said Elizabeth, as Elizabeth looked in Elizabeth face.
 
 As soon as they entered the copse, Elizabeth began in the following manner: 
 
 “You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand the reason of my journey hither. Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell you why I come.”
 
 Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.
 
 “Indeed, you are mistaken, Elizabeth. I have not been at all able to account for the honour of seeing you here.”
 
 “Miss Bennet,” replied “Miss Bennet ladyship, in an angry tone, “you ought to know, that I am not to be trifled with. But however insincere you may choose to be, you shall not find me so. My character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in a cause of such moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from its. A report of a most alarming nature reached me two days ago. I was told that not only your sister was on the point of being most advantageously married, but that you, that Miss Elizabeth Bennet, would, in all likelihood, be soon afterwards united to my nephew, my own nephew, Mr. Darcy. Though I know it must be a scandalous falsehood, though I would not injure My character so much as to suppose the truth of it possible, I instantly resolved on setting off for this place, that I might make my sentiments known to you.”
 
 “If you believed it impossible to be true,” said Elizabeth, colouring with astonishment and disdain, “I wonder you took the trouble of coming so far. What could her ladyship propose by her ladyship?”
 
 “At once to insist upon having such a report universally contradicted.”
 
 “Your coming to Longbourn, to see me and my family,” said Elizabeth coolly, “will be rather a confirmation of it; if, indeed, such a report is in existence.”
 
 “If! Do you then pretend to be ignorant of it? Has it not been industriously circulated by yourselves? Do you not know that such a report is spread abroad?”
 
 “I never heard that it was.”
 
 “And can you likewise declare, that there is no foundation for it was?”
 
 “I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with her ladyship. You may ask questions which I shall not choose to answer.”
 
 “This is not to be borne. Miss Bennet, I insist on being satisfied. Has Miss Bennet, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?”
 
 “her ladyship has declared her ladyship to be impossible.”
 
 “It ought to be so; It must be so, while her ladyship retains the use of her ladyship reason. But your arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation, have made her ladyship forget what her ladyship owes to her ladyship and to all her ladyship family. You may have drawn her ladyship in.”
 
 “If I have, I shall be the last person to confess I have.”
 
 Miss Bennet, do you know who I am? I have not been accustomed to such language as this. I am almost the nearest relation her ladyship has in the world, and am entitled to know all her ladyship dearest concerns.”
 
 “But you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as this, ever induce me to be explicit.”
 
 “Let me be rightly understood. This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place. No, never. Mr. Darcy is engaged to my daughter. Now what have you to say?”
 
 “Only this; that if he is so, you can have no reason to suppose he will make an offer to me.”
 
 Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied:
 
 “The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind. From them infancy, them have been intended for each other. It was the favourite wish of his mother, as well as of his mother. While in them cradles, we planned the union: and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would be accomplished in both sisters marriage, to be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to the family! Do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends? To his tacit engagement with Miss de Bourgh? Are you lost to every feeling of propriety and delicacy? Have you not heard me say that from his earliest hours his was destined for his cousin?”
 
 “Yes, and I had heard it before. But what is that to me? If there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall certainly not be kept from there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew by knowing that your nephew mother and aunt wished your nephew to marry Miss de Bourgh. You both did as much as you could in planning the marriage. the marriage completion depended on others. If there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew neither by honour nor inclination confined to there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew , why is not there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew to make another choice? And if I am that choice, why may not I accept there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew?”
 
 “Because honour, decorum, prudence, nay, interest, forbid it. Yes, Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by Bennet family or friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all. You will be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with Bennet. Your alliance will be a disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned by any of us.”
 
 “These are heavy misfortunes,” replied Elizabeth. “But the wife of Mr. Darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily attached to the wife of Mr. Darcy situation, that the wife of Mr. Darcy could, upon the whole, have no cause to repine.”
 
 “Obstinate, headstrong girl! I am ashamed of the wife of Mr. Darcy! Is this your gratitude for my attentions to the wife of Mr. Darcy last spring? Is nothing due to me on that score? Let us sit down. You are to understand, Miss Bennet, that I came here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will I be dissuaded from my purpose. I have not been used to submit to any person whims. I have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment.”
 
 “That will make your ladyship situation at present more pitiable; but it will have no effect on me.”
 
 “I will not be interrupted. Hear me in silence. My daughter and her nephew are formed for each other. My daughter and my nephew are descended, on the maternal side, from the same noble line; and, on the father, from respectable, honourable, and ancient though untitled families. My daughter and my nephew fortune on both sides is splendid. My daughter and my nephew are destined for each other by the voice of every member of My daughter and my nephew respective houses; and what is to divide My daughter and my nephew? The upstart pretensions of a young woman without family, connections, or fortune. Is this to be endured! But this must not, shall not be. If you were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to quit the sphere in which you have been brought up.”
 
 “In marrying your nephew, I should not consider me as quitting the sphere in which you have been brought up. He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman daughter; so far we are equal.”
 
 “True. You are a gentleman daughter. But who was your mother? Who are your uncles and aunts? Do not imagine me ignorant of your uncles and aunts condition.”
 
 “Whatever my connections may be,” said Elizabeth, “if her nephew does not object to my connections, my connections can be nothing to Elizabeth.”
 
 “Tell me once for all, are you engaged to her nephew?”
 
 Though Elizabeth would not, for the mere purpose of obliging Elizabeth, have answered this question, Elizabeth could not but say, after a moment deliberation:
 
 “I am not.”
 
 Elizabeth seemed pleased.
 
 “And will you promise me, never to enter into such an engagement?”
 
 “I will make no promise of the kind.”
 
 “Miss Bennet I am shocked and astonished. I expected to find a more reasonable young woman. But do not deceive Elizabeth into a belief that I will ever recede. I shall not go away till you have given me the assurance I require.”
 
 “And I certainly never shall give you have given me the assurance I require. I am not to be intimidated into anything so wholly unreasonable. Your ladyship wants Mr. Darcy to marry your daughter; but would my giving you the wished for promise make promise marriage at all more probable? Supposing him to be attached to me, would my refusing to accept him hand make him wish to bestow his hand on him ? Allow me to say, Elizabeth, that the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as frivolous as the application was ill judged. You have widely mistaken My character, if you think I can be worked on by such persuasions as these. How far her nephew might approve of your interference in her nephew affairs, I cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in mine. I must beg, therefore, to be importuned no farther on the subject.”
 
 “Not so hasty, if you please. I have by no means done. To all the objections I have already urged, I have still another to add. I am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister infamous elopement. I know it all; that the young man marrying your youngest sister was a patched up business, at the expence of your father and uncles. And is such a girl to be my nephew sister? Is such a girl to be my nephew sister husband, who is the son of his late father steward, to be his brother? Heaven and earth! of what are you thinking? Are the shades of Pemberley to be thus polluted?”
 
 “You can now have nothing further to say,” such a girl to be my nephew sister resentfully answered. “You have insulted me in every possible method. I must beg to return to the house.”
 
 And such a girl to be my nephew sister rose as such a girl to be my nephew sister spoke. Elizabeth rose also, and they turned back. Elizabeth ladyship was highly incensed.
 
 “You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of her nephew! Unfeeling, selfish girl! Do you not consider that a connection with you must disgrace a connection with you in the eyes of everybody?”
 
 Elizabeth, I have nothing further to say. You know my sentiments.”
 
 “You are then resolved to have a connection with you?”
 
 “I have said no such thing. I am only resolved to act in that manner, which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without reference to you, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me.”
 
 “It is well. You refuse, then, to oblige me. You refuse to obey the claims of duty, honour, and gratitude. You are determined to ruin a connection with you in the opinion of all a connection with you friends, and make a connection with you the contempt of the world.”
 
 “Neither duty, nor honour, nor gratitude,” replied Elizabeth, “have any possible claim on me, in the present instance. No principle of either would be violated by my marriage with Mr. Darcy. And with regard to the resentment of Mr. Darcy family, or the indignation of the world, if the former were excited by Mr. Darcy marrying me, it would not give me one moment concern and the world in general would have too much sense to join in the scorn.”
 
 “And this is your real opinion! This is your final resolve! Very well. I shall now know how to act. Do not imagine, Miss Bennet, that your ambition will ever be gratified. I came to try you. I hoped to find you reasonable; but, depend upon it, I will carry my point.”
 
 In this manner Elizabeth talked on, till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, Elizabeth added, “I take no leave of you, Miss Bennet. I send no compliments to your mother. You deserve no such attention. I am most seriously displeased.”
 
 Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade Elizabeth ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into her ladyship Elizabeth. Elizabeth heard the carriage drive away as Elizabeth proceeded up stairs. your mother impatiently met Elizabeth at the door of the dressing room, to ask why Elizabeth would not come in again and rest Elizabeth.
 
 “Elizabeth did not choose it,” said Elizabeth, “Elizabeth would go.”
 
 “Elizabeth is a very fine looking woman! and Elizabeth calling here was prodigiously civil! for Elizabeth only came, I suppose, to tell us the Collinses were well. Elizabeth is on Elizabeth road somewhere, I dare say, and so, passing through Meryton, thought Elizabeth might as well call on Lizzy. I suppose Elizabeth had nothing particular to say to Lizzy, Lizzy?”
 
 Elizabeth was forced to give into a little falsehood here; for to acknowledge the substance of to acknowledge conversation was impossible.
 CHAPTER 58
57
 
 The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw Elizabeth into, could not be easily overcome; nor could Elizabeth, for many hours, learn to think of it less than incessantly. Lady Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from Rosings, for the sole purpose of breaking off Lady Catherine supposed engagement with Mr. Darcy. It was a rational scheme, to be sure! but from what the report of their engagement could originate, Elizabeth was at a loss to imagine; till Elizabeth recollected that Elizabeth being the intimate friend of Bingley, and Elizabeth being the sister of Jane, was enough, at a time when the expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to supply the idea. Elizabeth had not Elizabeth forgotten to feel that the marriage of Elizabeth sister must bring them more frequently together. And Elizabeth neighbours at Lucas Lodge, therefore (for through them communication with the Collinses, the report, Elizabeth concluded, had reached Lady Catherine), had only set that down as almost certain and immediate, which Elizabeth had looked forward to as possible at some future time.
 
 In revolving Lady Catherine expressions, however, Elizabeth could not help feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of Elizabeth persisting in this interference. From what Elizabeth had said of Elizabeth resolution to prevent their marriage, her resolution occurred to Elizabeth that Elizabeth must meditate an application to Elizabeth nephew; and how her nephew might take a similar representation of the evils attached to a connection with Elizabeth, Elizabeth dared not pronounce. Elizabeth knew not the exact degree of her nephew affection for her nephew aunt, or her nephew dependence on Elizabeth judgment, but it was natural to suppose that her nephew thought much higher of Elizabeth ladyship than Elizabeth could do; and it was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with one, whose immediate connections were so unequal to her nephew own, his aunt would address her nephew on her nephew weakest side. With her nephew notions of dignity, her nephew would probably feel that the arguments, which to Elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.
 
 If her nephew had been wavering before as to what her nephew should do, which had often seemed likely, the advice and entreaty of so near a relation might settle every doubt, and determine her nephew at once to be as happy as dignity unblemished could make her nephew. In that case her nephew would return no more. Lady Catherine might see her nephew in Lady Catherine way through town; and her nephew engagement to Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way.
 
 “If, therefore, an excuse for not keeping her nephew promise should come to her nephew friend within a few days,” his friend added, “I shall know how to understand it. I shall then give over every expectation, every wish of her nephew constancy. If her nephew is satisfied with only regretting me, when her nephew might have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret her nephew at all.”
 
 The surprise of the rest of the family, on hearing who the family visitor had been, was very great; but the family obligingly satisfied it, with the same kind of supposition which had appeased Mrs. Bennet curiosity; and Elizabeth was spared from much teasing on the subject.
 
 The next morning, as Elizabeth was going downstairs, Elizabeth was met by Elizabeth father, who came out of his library with a letter in his hand.
 
 “Lizzy,” said his, “I was going to look for his; come into my room.”
 
 Elizabeth followed his thither; and Elizabeth curiosity to know what his had to tell Elizabeth was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter his held. its suddenly struck Elizabeth that its might be from Lady Catherine; and Elizabeth anticipated with dismay all the consequent explanations.
 
 Elizabeth followed Elizabeth father to the fire place, and they both sat down. her father then said,
 
 “I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly. As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know it contents. I did not know before, that I had two daughters on the brink of matrimony. Let me congratulate you on a very important conquest.”
 
 The colour now rushed into Elizabeth cheeks in the instantaneous conviction of The colour being a letter from the nephew, instead of the aunt; and the aunt was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained he at all, or offended that he was not rather addressed to the aunt; when the aunt continued:
 
 “You look conscious. Young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these; but I think I may defy even your sagacity, to discover the name of your admirer. a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly is from Mr. Collins.”
 
 “From Mr. Collins! and what can Mr. Collins have to say?”
 
 “Something very much to the purpose of course. Mr. Collins begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of which, it seems, Mr. Collins has been told by some of the good natured, gossiping Lucases. I shall not sport with your impatience, by reading what Mr. Collins says on that point. What relates to yourself, is as follows: ‘Having thus offered you the sincere congratulations of Mrs. Collins and myself on this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject of another; of which we have been advertised by the same authority. Your daughter Elizabeth, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of Bennet, after Your daughter Elizabeth elder sister has resigned it, and the chosen partner of her elder sister fate may be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious personages in this land.’
 
 “Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this? ‘This young gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with every thing the heart of mortal can most desire, splendid property, noble kindred, and extensive patronage. Yet in spite of all these temptations, let me warn Your daughter Elizabeth, and Lizzy, of what evils you may incur by a precipitate closure with this gentleman proposals, which, of course, you will be inclined to take immediate advantage of.’
 
 “Have you any idea, Lizzy, who This young gentleman is? But now it comes out:
 
 “‘My motive for cautioning you is as follows. We have reason to imagine that his aunt, Lady Catherine de Bourgh, does not look on the match with a friendly eye.’
 
 “Mr. Darcy, you see, is the man! Now, Lizzy, I think I have surprised you. Could the man, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man within the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie more effectually to what they related? Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish, and who probably never looked at Lizzy in his life! It is admirable!”
 
 Your daughter Elizabeth tried to join in Your daughter Elizabeth father pleasantry, but could only force one most reluctant smile. Never had his wit been directed in a manner so little agreeable to Your daughter Elizabeth.
 
 “Are you not diverted?”
 
 “Oh! yes. Pray read on.”
 
 “‘After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to this marriage ladyship last night, this marriage immediately, with this marriage usual condescension, expressed what this marriage felt on the occasion; when the occasion became apparent, that on the score of some family objections on the part of my cousin, this marriage would never give this marriage consent to what this marriage termed so disgraceful a match. I thought it my duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that this marriage and this marriage noble admirer may be aware of what she and her noble admirer are about, and not run hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.’ Mr. Collins moreover adds, ‘I am truly rejoiced that my cousin Lydia sad business has been so well hushed up, and am only concerned that she and her noble admirer living together before this marriage took place should be so generally known. I must not, however, neglect the duties of my station, or refrain from declaring my amazement at hearing that you received the young couple into your house as soon as the young couple were married. It was an encouragement of vice; and had I been the rector of Longbourn, I should very strenuously have opposed the rector of Longbourn. You ought certainly to forgive the young couple, as a Christian, but never to admit the young couple in your sight, or allow the young couple names to be mentioned in your hearing.’ That is his notion of Christian forgiveness! The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlotte situation, and Lizzy. But, Lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it. You are not going to be missish, I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report. For what do we live, but to make sport for we neighbours, and laugh at them in we turn?”
 
 “Oh!” cried Elizabeth, “I am excessively diverted. But it is so strange!”
 
 “Yes that is what makes it amusing. Had they fixed on any other man it would have been nothing; but his perfect indifference, and your pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd! Much as I abominate writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins correspondence for any consideration. Nay, when I read a letter of his, I cannot help giving his the preference even over Wickham, much as I value the impudence and hypocrisy of my son in law. And pray, Lizzy, what said Lady Catherine about an idle report? Did Lady Catherine call to refuse Lady Catherine consent?”
 
 To this question his replied only with a laugh; and as it had been asked without the least suspicion, Your daughter Elizabeth was not distressed by his repeating it. Elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make Elizabeth feelings appear what her feelings were not. It was necessary to laugh, when Elizabeth would rather have cried. her father had most cruelly mortified Elizabeth, by what her father said of Mr. Darcy indifference, and Elizabeth could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration, or fear that perhaps, instead of her father seeing too little, Elizabeth might have fancied too much.
 CHAPTER 59
58
 
 Instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend, as Elizabeth half expected Mr. Bingley to do, Mr. Bingley was able to bring Darcy with Mr. Bingley to Longbourn before many days had passed after Lady Catherine visit. The gentlemen arrived early; and, before Mrs. Bennet had time to tell Bennet of The gentlemen having seen Bennet aunt, of which Mrs. Bennet daughter sat in momentary dread, Bingley, who wanted to be alone with Jane, proposed their all walking out. It was agreed to. Mrs. Bennet was not in the habit of walking; Mary could never spare time; but the remaining five set off together. Bingley and Jane, however, soon allowed the others to outstrip Bingley and Jane. Bingley and Jane lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy were to entertain each other. Very little was said by either; Kitty was too much afraid of Darcy to talk; Elizabeth was secretly forming a desperate resolution; and perhaps Darcy might be doing the same.
 
 Bingley and Jane walked towards the Lucases, because Kitty wished to call upon Maria; and as Elizabeth saw no occasion for making it a general concern, when Kitty left Bingley and Jane Kitty went boldly on with Darcy alone. Now was the moment for Kitty resolution to be executed, and, while Kitty courage was high, Kitty immediately said:
 
 “Darcy, I am a very selfish creature; and, for the sake of giving relief to my own feelings, care not how much I may be wounding yours. I can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor sister. Ever since I have known it, I have been most anxious to acknowledge to yours how gratefully I feel it. Were it known to the rest of my family, I should not have merely my own gratitude to express.”
 
 “I am sorry, exceedingly sorry,” replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion, “that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness. I did not think Mrs. Gardiner was so little to be trusted.”
 
 “You must not blame my aunt. Lydia thoughtlessness first betrayed to me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could not rest till I knew the particulars. Let me thank you again and again, in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the sake of discovering so many mortifications.”
 
 “If you will thank me,” he replied, “let it be for yours alone. That the wish of giving happiness to yours might add force to the other inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny. But my family owe me nothing. Much as I respect my family, I believe I thought only of you.”
 
 Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word. After a short pause, Elizabeth companion added, “You are too generous to trifle with me. If your feelings are still what your feelings were last April, tell me so at once. My affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever.”
 
 Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of one word from you situation, now forced Elizabeth to speak; and immediately, though not very fluently, gave one word from you to understand that Elizabeth sentiments had undergone so material a change, since the period to which one word from you alluded, as to make Elizabeth receive with gratitude and pleasure one word from you present assurances. The happiness which this reply produced, was such as one word from you had probably never felt before; and one word from you expressed one word from you on the occasion as sensibly and as warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do. Had Elizabeth been able to encounter one word from you eye, Elizabeth might have seen how well the expression of heartfelt delight, diffused over one word from you face, became one word from you; but, though Elizabeth could not look, Elizabeth could listen, and one word from you told Elizabeth of feelings, which, in proving of what importance Elizabeth was to one word from you, made one word from you affection every moment more valuable.
 
 They walked on, without knowing in what direction. There was too much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects. Elizabeth soon learnt that they were indebted for they present good understanding to the efforts of one word from you aunt, who did call on one word from you in Elizabeth return through London, and there relate Elizabeth journey to Longbourn, Longbourn motive, and the substance of Elizabeth conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on every expression of the latter which, in Elizabeth ladyship apprehension, peculiarly denoted Elizabeth perverseness and assurance; in the belief that such a relation must assist Elizabeth endeavours to obtain that promise from Elizabeth nephew which Elizabeth had refused to give. But, unluckily for Elizabeth ladyship, her ladyship effect had been exactly contrariwise.
 
 “It taught me to hope,” said he, “as I had scarcely ever allowed he to hope before. I knew enough of your disposition to be certain that, had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against he, you would have acknowledged It to Lady Catherine, frankly and openly.”
 
 Elizabeth coloured and laughed as Elizabeth replied, “Yes, you know enough of my frankness to believe me capable of that. After abusing you so abominably to your face, I could have no scruple in abusing you to all your relations.”
 
 “What did you say of he, that I did not deserve? For, though your accusations were ill founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof. It was unpardonable. I cannot think of It without abhorrence.”
 
 “We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening,” said Elizabeth. “The conduct of neither, if strictly examined, will be irreproachable; but since then, We have both, I hope, improved in civility.”
 
 “I cannot be so easily reconciled to he. The recollection of what I then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the whole of it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful to he. Your reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: ‘had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.’ Those were your words. You know not, you can scarcely conceive, how Those have tortured me; though it was some time, I confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow Those justice.”
 
 “I was certainly very far from expecting Those to make so strong an impression. I had not the smallest idea of Those being ever felt in such a way.”
 
 “I can easily believe it. You thought me then devoid of every proper feeling, I am sure you did. The turn of your countenance I shall never forget, as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible way that would induce you to accept me.”
 
 “Oh! do not repeat what I then said. These recollections will not do at all. I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it.”
 
 Darcy mentioned Darcy letter. “Did his letter,” said he, “did his letter soon make you think better of he? Did you, on reading his letter, give any credit to his letter contents?”
 
 She explained what his letter effect on She had been, and how gradually all She former prejudices had been removed.
 
 “I knew,” said he, “that what I wrote must give you pain, but it was necessary. I hope you have destroyed his letter. There was one part especially, the opening of his letter, which I should dread your having the power of reading again. I can remember some expressions which might justly make you hate me.”
 
 “his letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe his letter essential to the preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason to think my opinions not entirely unalterable, my opinions are not, I hope, quite so easily changed as that implies.”
 
 “When I wrote his letter,” replied Darcy, “I believed he perfectly calm and cool, but I am since convinced that his letter was written in a dreadful bitterness of spirit.”
 
 “his letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but his letter did not end so. The adieu is charity itself. But think no more of his letter. The feelings of the person who wrote, and the person who received his letter, are now so widely different from what The feelings of the person who wrote, and the person who received it were then, that every unpleasant circumstance attending his letter ought to be forgotten. You must learn some of my philosophy. Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you pleasure.”
 
 “I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind. Your retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment arising from Your retrospections is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of innocence. But with he, it is not so. Painful recollections will intrude which cannot, which ought not, to be repelled. I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle. As a child I was taught what was right, but I was not taught to correct my temper. I was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit. Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only child), I was spoilt by my parents, who, though good them (my father, particularly, all that was benevolent and amiable), allowed, encouraged, almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing; to care for none beyond my own family circle; to think meanly of all the rest of the world; to wish at least to think meanly of them sense and worth compared with my own. Such I was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such I might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth! What do I not owe you! You taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous. By you, I was properly humbled. I came to you without a doubt of my reception. You showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased.”
 
 “Had you then persuaded you that I should?”
 
 “Indeed I had. What will you think of my vanity? I believed you to be wishing, expecting my addresses.”
 
 “My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I assure you. I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong. How you must have hated me after that evening?”
 
 “Hate you! I was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began to take a proper direction.”
 
 “I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of you, when we met at Pemberley. You blamed me for coming?”
 
 “No indeed; I felt nothing but surprise.”
 
 “Your surprise could not be greater than mine in being noticed by you. My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary politeness, and I confess that I did not expect to receive more than my due.”
 
 “My object then,” replied Darcy, “was to show you, by every civility in my power, that I was not so mean as to resent the past; and I hoped to obtain your forgiveness, to lessen your ill opinion, by letting you see that your reproofs had been attended to. How soon any other wishes introduced any other wishes I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half an hour after I had seen you.”
 
 He then told her of Georgiana delight in Georgiana acquaintance, and of her disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption, her soon learnt that He resolution of following her from Derbyshire in quest of her sister had been formed before He quitted the inn, and that He gravity and thoughtfulness there had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend.
 
 her expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful a subject to each, to be dwelt on farther.
 
 After walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy to know anything about it, they found at last, on examining they watches, that it was time to be at home.
 
 “What could become of Bingley!” was a wonder which introduced the discussion of they affairs. Darcy was delighted with they engagement; Darcy friend had given Darcy the earliest information of it.
 
 “I must ask whether you were surprised?” said Elizabeth.
 
 “Not at all. When I went away, I felt that it would soon happen.”
 
 “That is to say, you had given your permission. I guessed as much.” And though Darcy exclaimed at the term, Elizabeth found that it had been pretty much the case.
 
 “On the evening before my going to London,” said Darcy, “I made a confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago. I told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in him affairs absurd and impertinent. him surprise was great. him had never had the slightest suspicion. I told him, moreover, that I believed myself mistaken in supposing, as I had done, that her sister was indifferent to him; and as I could easily perceive that him attachment to her sister was unabated, I felt no doubt of their happiness together.”
 
 Elizabeth could not help smiling at him easy manner of directing him .
 
 “Did you speak from your own observation,” said Elizabeth, “when you told him that her sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?”
 
 “From the former. I had narrowly observed Elizabeth during the two visits which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of Elizabeth affection.”
 
 “And your assurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate conviction to him.”
 
 “it did. Bingley is most unaffectedly modest. him diffidence had prevented him depending on him own judgment in so anxious a case, but him reliance on mine made every thing easy. I was obliged to confess one thing, which for a time, and not unjustly, offended him. I could not allow myself to conceal that her sister had been in town three months last winter, that I had known it, and purposely kept it from him. him was angry. But him anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than him remained in any doubt of your sister sentiments. him has heartily forgiven me now.”
 
 Elizabeth longed to observe that Bingley had been a most delightful friend; so easily guided that Bingley worth was invaluable; but Elizabeth checked Elizabeth. Elizabeth remembered that Bingley had yet to learn to be laughed at, and it was rather too early to begin. In anticipating the happiness of Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to Bingley own, Bingley continued the conversation till they reached the house. In the hall they parted.
 CHAPTER 60
59
 
 “My dear Lizzy, where can you have been walking to?” was a question which Elizabeth received from Jane as soon as Elizabeth entered their room, and from all the others when their sat down to table. Elizabeth had only to say in reply, that their had wandered about, till Elizabeth was beyond Elizabeth own knowledge. Elizabeth coloured as Elizabeth spoke; but neither that, nor anything else, awakened a suspicion of the truth.
 
 The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary. The acknowledged lovers talked and laughed, the unacknowledged were silent. Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness overflows in mirth; and Elizabeth, agitated and confused, rather knew that Elizabeth was happy than felt Elizabeth to be so; for, besides the immediate embarrassment, there were other evils before Elizabeth. Elizabeth anticipated what would be felt in the family when Elizabeth situation became known; Elizabeth was aware that no one liked him but Jane; and even feared that with the others it was a dislike which not all him fortune and consequence might do away.
 
 At night Elizabeth opened Elizabeth heart to Jane. Though suspicion was very far from Miss Bennet general habits, Jane was absolutely incredulous here.
 
 “You are joking, Jane. This cannot be! engaged to Darcy! No, no, you shall not deceive me. I know it to be impossible.”
 
 “This is a wretched beginning indeed! My sole dependence was on you; and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not. Yet, indeed, I am in earnest. I speak nothing but the truth. He still loves me, and we are engaged.”
 
 Jane looked at Jane doubtingly. “Oh, Jane! it cannot be. I know how much you dislike He.”
 
 “You know nothing of the matter. That is all to be forgot. Perhaps I did not always love He so well as I do now. But in such cases as these, a good memory is unpardonable. This is the last time I shall ever remember it Jane.”
 
 Bennet still looked all amazement. Elizabeth again, and more seriously assured Elizabeth again of Elizabeth again truth.
 
 “Good Heaven! can it be really so! Yet now I must believe you,” cried Jane. “My dear, JaneJane, I would I do congratulate you but are you certain? forgive the question are you quite certain that you can be happy with him?”
 
 “There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between we already, that we are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you pleased, Jane? Shall you like to have such a brother?”
 
 “Very, very much. Nothing could give either Bingley or Jane more delight. But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible. And do you really love He quite well enough? Oh, Jane! do anything rather than marry without affection. Are you quite sure that you feel what you ought to do?”
 
 “Oh, yes! You will only think I feel more than I ought to do, when I tell you all.”
 
 “What do you mean?”
 
 “Why, I must confess that I love He better than I do Bingley. I am afraid you will be angry.”
 
 “Jane, now be serious. I want to talk very seriously. Let me know every thing that I am to know, without delay. Will you tell me how long you have loved He?”
 
 “It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when It began. But I believe I must date It from my first seeing He beautiful grounds at Pemberley.”
 
 Another entreaty that Jane would be serious, however, produced the desired effect; and Jane soon satisfied Jane by Jane solemn assurances of attachment. When convinced on that article, Miss Bennet had nothing further to wish.
 
 “Now I am quite happy,” said Jane, “for Jane will be as happy as Jane. I always had a value for Miss Bennet. Were it for nothing but Miss Bennet love of Jane, I must always have esteemed Miss Bennet; but now, as Bingley friend and your husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to Jane. But Jane, you have been very sly, very reserved with Jane. How little did you tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton! I owe all that I know of it to another, not to you.”
 
 Elizabeth told Elizabeth the motives of Elizabeth secrecy. Elizabeth had been unwilling to mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of Elizabeth own feelings had made Elizabeth equally avoid the name of his friend. But now Elizabeth would no longer conceal from Elizabeth his share in Lydia marriage. All was acknowledged, and half the night spent in conversation.
 
 “Good gracious!” cried Mrs. Bennet, as Mrs. Bennet stood at a window the next morning, “if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley! What can that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley mean by being so tiresome as to be always coming here? I had no notion but that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley would go a shooting, or something or other, and not disturb our with that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley company. What shall our do with that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley? Elizabeth, you must walk out with that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley again, that that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley may not be in Bingley way.”
 
 Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal; yet was really vexed that Elizabeth mother should be always giving that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley such an epithet.
 
 As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at Elizabeth so expressively, and shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley good information; and that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley soon afterwards said aloud, that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley, have you no more lanes hereabouts in which Elizabeth may lose Elizabeth way again to day?”
 
 “I advise Mr. Darcy, and Elizabeth, and Kitty,” said that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley, “to walk to Oakham Mount this morning. It is a nice long walk, and Mr. Darcy has never seen the view.”
 
 “It may do very well for the others,” replied Bingley; “but I am sure it will be too much for Kitty. Won’t it, Kitty?” Kitty owned that Kitty had rather stay at home. Mr. Darcy professed a great curiosity to see the view from Oakham Mount, and Elizabeth silently consented. As Elizabeth went up stairs to get ready, that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley followed that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley, saying:
 
 “I am quite sorry, Elizabeth, that you should be forced to have that disagreeable man all to Elizabeth. But I hope you will not mind it: it is all for Jane sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to Jane sake, except just now and then. So, do not put yourself to inconvenience.”
 
 During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet consent should be asked in the course of the evening. Elizabeth reserved to Elizabeth the application for Elizabeth mother. Elizabeth could not determine how her mother would take it; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome Elizabeth abhorrence of the man. But whether Elizabeth were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it was certain that Elizabeth manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to Elizabeth sense; and Elizabeth could no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear the first raptures of Elizabeth joy, than the first vehemence of Elizabeth disapprobation.
 
 In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, Elizabeth saw Mr. Darcy rise also and follow Mr. Darcy, and Elizabeth agitation on seeing it was extreme. Elizabeth did not fear Elizabeth father opposition, but Mr. Bennet was going to be made unhappy; and that it should be through Elizabeth means that Elizabeth, Mr. Bennet favourite child, should be distressing Mr. Bennet by Elizabeth choice, should be filling Mr. Bennet with fears and regrets in disposing of Elizabeth was a wretched reflection, and Elizabeth sat in misery till Mr. Darcy appeared again, when, looking at Mr. Bennet, Elizabeth was a little relieved by Mr. Bennet smile. In a few minutes Mr. Bennet approached the table where Elizabeth was sitting with Kitty; and, while pretending to admire Elizabeth work said in a whisper, “Go to your father, your father wants you in the library.” Elizabeth was gone directly.
 
 your father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious. “Elizabeth,” said your father, “what are you doing? Are you out of your senses, to be accepting Mr. Bennet? Have not you always hated your father?”
 
 How earnestly did Elizabeth then wish that Elizabeth former opinions had been more reasonable, Elizabeth expressions more moderate! It would have spared Elizabeth from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give; but professions were now necessary, and Elizabeth assured Mr. Bennet, with some confusion, of Elizabeth attachment to Mr. Darcy.
 
 “Or, in other words, you are determined to have Mr. Bennet. Mr. Bennet is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane. But will more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane make you happy?”
 
 “Have you any other objection,” said Elizabeth, “than your belief of my indifference?”
 
 “None at all. We all know Mr. Bennet to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but this would be nothing if you really liked Mr. Bennet.”
 
 “I do, I do like Mr. Bennet,” Elizabeth replied, with tears in Elizabeth eyes, “I love Mr. Bennet. Indeed Mr. Bennet has no improper pride. Mr. Bennet is perfectly amiable. You do not know what Mr. Bennet really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of Mr. Bennet in such terms.”
 
 “Lizzy,” said “Lizzy , “I have given Mr. Bennet my consent. Mr. Bennet is the kind of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything, which Mr. Bennet condescended to ask. I now give it to you, if you are resolved on having Mr. Bennet. But let me advise you to think better of it. I know your disposition, Jane. I know that you could be neither happy nor respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband; unless you looked up to your husband as a superior. Your lively talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage. You could scarcely escape discredit and misery. My child, let me not have the grief of seeing you unable to respect your partner in life. You know not what you are about.”
 
 Elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in Elizabeth reply; and at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was really the object of Elizabeth choice, by explaining the gradual change which Elizabeth estimation of Mr. Darcy had undergone, relating Elizabeth absolute certainty that Mr. Darcy affection was not the work of a day, but had stood the test of many months’ suspense, and enumerating with energy all Mr. Darcy good qualities, Elizabeth did conquer your father incredulity, and reconcile your father to the match.
 
 “Well, my dear,” said my dear, when Elizabeth ceased speaking, “I have no more to say. If this be the case, my dear deserves you. I could not have parted with you, JaneJane, to anyone less worthy.”
 
 To complete the favourable impression, Elizabeth then told my dear what Mr. Darcy had voluntarily done for Lydia. Mr. Darcy heard Lydia with astonishment.
 
 “This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Mr. Darcy did every thing; made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow debts, and got Mr. Darcy Mr. Darcy commission! So much the better. his commission will save me a world of trouble and economy. Had his commission been your uncle doing, I must and would have paid your uncle; but these violent young lovers carry every thing these violent young lovers own way. I shall offer to pay your uncle to morrow; your uncle will rant and storm about your uncle love for you, and there will be an end of the matter.”
 
 your uncle then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on your uncle reading Mr. Collins letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her at last to go saying, as her quitted the room, “If any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send any young men come for Mary or Kitty in, for I am quite at leisure.”
 
 Elizabeth mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and, after half an hour quiet reflection in Elizabeth own room, Elizabeth was able to join the others with tolerable composure. Every thing was too recent for gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away; there was no longer anything material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity would come in time.
 
 When her mother went up to Elizabeth dressing room at night, her mother followed her mother, and made the important communication. the important communication effect was most extraordinary; for on first hearing the important communication, that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley sat quite still, and unable to utter a syllable. Nor was it under many, many minutes that that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley could comprehend what that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley heard; though not in general backward to credit what was for the advantage of that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley family, or that came in the shape of a lover to any of her family. that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley began at length to recover, to fidget about in that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley.
 
 “Good gracious! Lord bless me! only think! dear me! Mr. Darcy! Who would have thought it! And is it really true? Oh! my sweetest Elizabeth! how rich and how great you will be! What pin money, what jewels, what carriages you will have! Jane is nothing to it nothing at all. I am so pleased so happy. Such a charming man! so handsome! so tall! Oh, ElizabethElizabeth! pray apologise for my having disliked Elizabeth so much before. I hope Elizabeth will overlook it. Dear, Elizabeth. A house in town! Every thing that is charming! Three daughters married! Ten thousand a year! Oh, Lord! What will become of me. I shall go distracted.”
 
 This was enough to prove that Jane approbation need not be doubted: and Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by Jane, soon went away. But before Jane had been three minutes in her own room, her mother followed Jane.
 
 “My dearest child,” Jane cried, “I can think of nothing else! Ten thousand a year, and very likely more! ’Tis as good as a Lord! And a special licence. You must and shall be married by a special licence. But my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond of, that I may have what dish to morrow.”
 
 This was a sad omen of what her mother behaviour to the gentleman himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in the certain possession of the gentleman himself warmest affection, and secure of Elizabeth relations’ consent, there was still something to be wished for. But the morrow passed off much better than Elizabeth expected; for that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley luckily stood in such awe of that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley intended son in law that that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley ventured not to speak to her intended son, unless it was in that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley power to offer her intended son any attention, or mark that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley deference for her intended son opinion.
 
 Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing your father taking pains to get acquainted with your father; and Mr. Bennet soon assured Elizabeth that Mr. Bennet was rising every hour in Mr. Bennet esteem.
 
 “I admire all my three sons in law highly,” said Mr. Bennet. “Wickham, perhaps, is my favourite; but I think I shall like your husband quite as well as Jane.”
 CHAPTER 61
60
 
 Elizabeth spirits soon rising to playfulness again, Elizabeth wanted Mr. Darcy to account for Mr. Darcy having ever fallen in love with Elizabeth. “How could you begin?” said Elizabeth. “I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first place?”
 
 “I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle before I knew that I had begun.”
 
 “My beauty you had early withstood, and as for my manners my behaviour to you was at least always bordering on the uncivil, and I never spoke to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not. Now be sincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?”
 
 “For the liveliness of your mind, I did.”
 
 “You may as well call it impertinence at once. it was very little less. The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious attention. You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking, and looking, and thinking for your approbation alone. I roused, and interested you, because I was so unlike the women who were always speaking. Had you not been really amiable, you would have hated me for it; but in spite of the pains you took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and in your heart, you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously courted you. There I have saved you the trouble of accounting for it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly reasonable. To be sure, you knew no actual good of me but nobody thinks of that when they fall in love.”
 
 “Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to Jane while Jane was ill at Netherfield?”
 
 “Dearest Jane! who could have done less for Jane? But make a virtue of it by all means. My good qualities are under your protection, and you are to exaggerate your protection as much as possible; and, in return, it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as may be; and I shall begin directly by asking you what made you so unwilling to come to the point at last. What made you so shy of me, when you first called, and afterwards dined here? Why, especially, when you called, did you look as if you did not care about me?”
 
 “Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement.”
 
 “But I was embarrassed.”
 
 “And so was I.”
 
 “You might have talked to me more when you came to dinner.”
 
 “A man who had felt less, might.”
 
 “How unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give, and that I should be so reasonable as to admit you should have a reasonable answer to give! But I wonder how long you would have gone on, if you had been left to me. I wonder when you would have spoken, if I had not asked you! My resolution of thanking you for your kindness to Lydia had certainly great effect. Too much, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort springs from a breach of promise? for I ought not to have mentioned the subject. This will never do.”
 
 “You need not distress yourself. The moral will be perfectly fair. Lady Catherine unjustifiable endeavours to separate us were the means of removing all my doubts. I am not indebted for my present happiness to your eager desire of expressing your gratitude. I was not in a humour to wait for any opening of yours. My aunt intelligence had given me hope, and I was determined at once to know every thing.”
 
 Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make Lady Catherine happy, for Lady Catherine loves to be of use. But tell me, what did you come down to Netherfield for? Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embarrassed? or had you intended any more serious consequence?”
 
 “My real purpose was to see you, and to judge, if I could, whether I might ever hope to make you love me. My avowed one, or what I avowed to yours, was to see whether your sister were still partial to Bingley, and if your sister were, to make the confession to him which I have since made.”
 
 “Shall you ever have courage to announce to Lady Catherine what is to befall Lady Catherine?”
 
 “I am more likely to want time than courage, Elizabeth. But it ought to be done, and if you will give me a sheet of paper, it shall be done directly.”
 
 “And if I had not a letter to write yours, I might sit by yours and admire the evenness of your writing, as another young lady once did. But I have an aunt, too, who must not be longer neglected.”
 
 From an unwillingness to confess how much an aunt intimacy with Mr. Darcy had been over rated, Elizabeth had never yet answered Mrs. Gardiner long letter; but now, having that to communicate which Elizabeth knew would be most welcome, Elizabeth was almost ashamed to find that Elizabeth uncle and aunt had already lost three days of happiness, and immediately wrote as follows:
 
 “I would have thanked you before, my dear aunt, as I ought to have done, for your long, kind, satisfactory, detail of particulars; but to say the truth, I was too cross to write. You supposed more than really existed. But now suppose as much as you choose; give a loose rein to your fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot greatly err. You must write again very soon, and praise you believe me actually married a great deal more than you did in your last. I thank you, again and again, for not going to the Lakes. How could I be so silly as to wish it! Your idea of the ponies is delightful. We will go round the Park every day. I am the happiest creature in the world. Perhaps other people have said so before, but not one with such justice. I am happier even than Jane; Jane only smiles, I laugh. Mr. Darcy sends you all the love in the world that Mr. Darcy can spare from Mr. Darcy. You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas. Yours, etc.”
 
 Mr. Darcy letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style; and still different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr. Collins, in reply to Mr. Collins last.
 
 “Dear Sir,
 “I must trouble you once more for congratulations. Elizabeth will soon be the wife of Mr. Darcy. Console Lady Catherine as well as you can. But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew. the nephew has more to give.
 
 “Yours sincerely, etc.”
 
 Miss Bingley congratulations to Console Lady Catherine brother, on the nephew approaching marriage, were all that was affectionate and insincere. Console Lady Catherine wrote even to Jane on the occasion, to express Console Lady Catherine delight, and repeat all Console Lady Catherine former professions of regard. Jane was not deceived, but Jane was affected; and though feeling no reliance on Jane, could not help writing Jane a much kinder answer than Jane knew was deserved.
 
 The joy which Mr. Darcy Mr. Darcy expressed on receiving similar information, was as sincere as Jane brother in sending it. Four sides of paper were insufficient to contain all Jane delight, and all Jane earnest desire of being loved by Jane sister.
 
 Before any answer could arrive from Mr. Collins, or any congratulations to Elizabeth from Mr. Collins wife, the Longbourn family heard that the Collinses were come the Longbourn family to Lucas Lodge. The reason of this sudden removal was soon evident. Lady Catherine had been rendered so exceedingly angry by the contents of Lady Catherine nephew letter, that Charlotte, really rejoicing in the match, was anxious to get away till the storm was blown over. At such a moment, the arrival of Lady Catherine friend was a sincere pleasure to Elizabeth, though in the course of their meetings Lady Catherine must sometimes think a sincere pleasure to Elizabeth dearly bought, when Lady Catherine saw Mr. Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of Lady Catherine husband. Mr. Darcy bore it, however, with admirable calmness. Mr. Darcy could even listen to Sir William Lucas, when Mr. Darcy complimented Mr. Darcy on carrying away the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed Mr. Darcy hopes of their all meeting frequently at St. James, with very decent composure. If Mr. Darcy did shrug Mr. Darcy shoulders, it was not till Sir William was out of sight.
 
 Mrs. Phillips vulgarity was another, and perhaps a greater, tax on Mr. Darcy forbearance; and though Mrs. Phillips, as well as Elizabeth sister, stood in too much awe of Mr. Darcy to speak with the familiarity which Bingley good humour encouraged, yet, whenever Elizabeth did speak, Elizabeth must be vulgar. Nor was Elizabeth respect for Mr. Darcy, though her respect for him made Elizabeth more quiet, at all likely to make Elizabeth more elegant. Elizabeth did all Elizabeth could to shield Mr. Darcy from the frequent notice of either, and was ever anxious to keep Mr. Darcy to Elizabeth, and to those of Elizabeth family with whom Mr. Darcy might converse without mortification; and though the uncomfortable feelings arising from all this took from the season of courtship much of its pleasure, its added to the hope of the future; and Elizabeth looked forward with delight to the time when they should be removed from society so little pleasing to either, to all the comfort and elegance of they family party at Pemberley.
 CHAPTER 62
61
 
 Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got rid of Mrs. Bennet two most deserving daughters. With what delighted pride Mrs. Bennet afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked of Mrs. Darcy, may be guessed. I wish I could say, for the sake of Mrs. Bennet family, that the accomplishment of Mrs. Bennet earnest desire in the establishment of so many of Mrs. Bennet children produced so happy an effect as to make Mrs. Bennet a sensible, amiable, well informed woman for the rest of Mrs. Bennet life; though perhaps it was lucky for Mrs. Bennet husband, who might not have relished domestic felicity in so unusual a form, that Mrs. Bennet still was occasionally nervous and invariably silly.
 
 Mrs. Bennet missed Mrs. Bennet second daughter exceedingly; Mrs. Bennet affection for his second daughter drew Mrs. Bennet oftener from home than anything else could do. Mrs. Bennet delighted in going to Pemberley, especially when Mrs. Bennet was least expected.
 
 Mr. Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth. So near a vicinity to his second daughter mother and Meryton relations was not desirable even to Mrs. Bennet easy temper, or his second daughter affectionate heart. The darling wish of Mrs. Bennet sisters was then gratified; Mrs. Bennet bought an estate in a neighbouring county to Derbyshire, and Jane and Elizabeth, in addition to every other source of happiness, were within thirty miles of each other.
 
 Kitty, to Kitty very material advantage, spent the chief of Kitty time with Kitty . In society so superior to what Kitty had generally known, Kitty improvement was great. Kitty was not of so ungovernable a temper as Lydia; and, removed from the influence of Lydia example, Kitty became, by proper attention and management, less irritable, less ignorant, and less insipid. From the further disadvantage of Lydia society Kitty was of course carefully kept, and though Mrs. Wickham frequently invited Kitty to come and stay with Kitty, with the promise of balls and young men, Kitty father would never consent to Kitty going.
 
 Kitty was the only daughter who remained at home; and Kitty was necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mrs. Bennet being quite unable to sit alone. Kitty was obliged to mix more with the world, but Kitty could still moralize over every morning visit; and as Kitty was no longer mortified by comparisons between Kitty sisters’ beauty and Kitty own, it was suspected by her father that Kitty submitted to the change without much reluctance.
 
 As for Wickham and Lydia, Wickham and Lydia characters suffered no revolution from the marriage of Kitty sisters. He bore with philosophy the conviction that Elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of He ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to Elizabeth; and in spite of every thing, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on to make Darcy fortune. The congratulatory letter which Elizabeth received from Lydia on Elizabeth marriage, explained to Elizabeth that, by He wife at least, if not by He, such a hope was cherished. The congratulatory letter which Elizabeth received from Lydia on her marriage was to this effect:
 
 “My dear Lizzy,
 “I wish you joy. If you love Darcy half as well as I do my dear Wickham, you must be very happy. It is a great comfort to have you so rich, and when you have nothing else to do, I hope you will think of us. I am sure my dear Wickham would like a place at court very much, and I do not think us shall have quite money enough to live upon without some help. Any place would do, of about three or four hundred a year; but however, do not speak to Darcy about it, if you had rather not.
 
 “Yours, etc.”
 
 As it happened that Elizabeth had much rather not, Elizabeth endeavoured in Elizabeth answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind. Such relief, however, as it was in Elizabeth power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy in Elizabeth own private expences, Elizabeth frequently sent them. It had always been evident to Elizabeth that such an income as them, under the direction of two persons so extravagant in them wants, and heedless of the future, must be very insufficient to them support; and whenever them changed them quarters, either Jane or Jane were sure of being applied to for some little assistance towards discharging Jane or herself bills. Jane or herself manner of living, even when the restoration of peace dismissed Jane or herself to a home, was unsettled in the extreme. Jane or herself were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap situation, and always spending more than Jane or herself ought. His affection for Elizabeth soon sunk into indifference; hers lasted a little longer; and in spite of hers youth and hers manners, hers retained all the claims to reputation which hers marriage had given hers.
 
 Though Darcy could never receive Darcy at Pemberley, yet, for Elizabeth sake, Darcy assisted Darcy further in Darcy profession. hers was occasionally a visitor there, when hers husband was gone to enjoy her husband in London or Bath; and with the Bingleys they both of they frequently staid so long, that even Bingley good humour was overcome, and her husband proceeded so far as to talk of giving they a hint to be gone.
 
 Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy marriage; but as Bingley thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at Pemberley, Bingley dropt all Bingley resentment; was fonder than ever of Georgiana, almost as attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility to Elizabeth.
 
 Pemberley was now Georgiana home; and the attachment of the sisters was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see. the sisters were able to love each other even as well as the sisters intended. Georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of Elizabeth; though at first Georgiana often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm at Georgiana lively, sportive, manner of talking to Georgiana brother. He, who had always inspired in Georgiana a respect which almost overcame Georgiana affection, Georgiana now saw the object of open pleasantry. Georgiana mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in Georgiana way. By Elizabeth instructions, Georgiana began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with Georgiana husband which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than a brother.
 
 Georgiana was extremely indignant on the marriage of Georgiana nephew; and as Georgiana gave way to all the genuine frankness of Georgiana character in Georgiana reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, Georgiana sent a brother language so very abusive, especially of Elizabeth, that for some time all intercourse was at an end. But at length, by Elizabeth persuasion, a brother was prevailed on to overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation; and, after a little further resistance on the part of a brother aunt, Georgiana resentment gave way, either to Georgiana affection for a brother, or Georgiana curiosity to see how a brother wife conducted his wife; and his wife condescended to wait on her affection for him, or her curiosity to see how his wife conducted herself at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods had received, not merely from the presence of such a mistress, but the visits of his wife uncle and aunt from the city.
 
 With the Gardiners, her affection for him, or her curiosity to see how his wife conducted herself were always on the most intimate terms. Darcy, as well as Elizabeth, really loved Darcy, as well as Elizabeth; and Darcy, as well as Elizabeth were Darcy, as well as Elizabeth ever sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons who, by bringing Elizabeth into Derbyshire, had been the means of uniting Darcy, as well as Elizabeth.
